MOUNDS VIEW, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1040, passed 4-14-2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY CHARTER
ORIGINALLY ADOPTED 1979
REVISION DATE: MARCH 15, 2023
CITY CHARTER
Index
Chapter 1.   Name, boundaries, powers and general provisions
Chapter 2.   Form of government
Chapter 3.   Council procedure
Chapter 4.   Nomination and elections
Chapter 5.   Initiative, referendum and recall
Chapter 6.   Administration of city affairs
Chapter 7.   Taxation and finances
Chapter 8.   Public improvements and special assessments
Chapter 9.   Eminent domain
Chapter 10.   Franchises
Chapter 11.   Public ownership and operation of utilities
Chapter 12.   Miscellaneous and transitory provisions
Appendices
Appendix A.   Timeline for a ballot issue related to initiative, referendum and
recall
Appendix B.   Initiative process flow diagram
Appendix C.   Referendum process flow diagram
Appendix D.   Adoption of ordinance with allowance for citizen referendum -
timeline
Appendix E.   Recall process flow diagram
CHAPTER 1:    NAME, BOUNDARIES, POWERS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Section 1.01. Name and Boundaries. The City of Mounds View, Ramsey County,
Minnesota shall continue to be a municipal corporation under that name and with
the same boundaries as now are or hereafter may be established. The city
administrator shall keep at least two (2) copies of this Charter with
amendments, and shall maintain in each copy an accurate up-to-date description
of the boundaries. The copies of the Charter, amendments, and boundary
descriptions shall be available for public inspection anytime during regular
office hours. For this Charter's purposes, the “City” means the City of Mounds
View and its provisions refer to the City unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise. (Amended 2010 Ord, 841; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 1.02. Powers of the City. The City shall have all powers which it
may now or hereafter be possible for a municipal corporation in this state to
exercise in harmony with this Charter and with the Constitution of this state
and of the United States. It is the intention of this Charter to confer upon
the City every power which it would have if it were specifically mentioned,
unless otherwise provided in this Charter. The Charter shall be construed
liberally in favor of the City, and the specific mention of particular
municipal powers in other sections of this Charter does not limit the powers of
the City to those thus mentioned. Unless granted to some other officer or body,
all powers are vested in the City Council. For this Charter’s purposes, the
“Council” refers to the City Council of the City of Mounds View unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 1.03. Charter a Public Act. This Charter shall be a public act and
need not be pleaded or proved in any case.
CHAPTER 2:    FORM OF GOVERNMENT
   Section 2.01. Form of Government. The form of government established by this
Charter is the “mayor-council plan”. Except as otherwise provided by state law
or this Charter, all powers of the City are vested in the Council. (Amended
2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 2.02. Boards and Commissions. There shall be no separate
administrative board of health, library board, or any other administrative
board or commission except for the administration of a function jointly with
another political subdivision. The Council shall itself be and perform the
duties and exercise the powers of such boards and commissions provided by state
law. The Council may, however, establish by ordinance boards or commissions to
advise the Council with respect to any municipal function or activity, to
investigate any subject of interest to the City, or to perform quasi-judicial
functions. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 2.03. Council Composition and Election. The Council shall be
composed of a mayor and four (4) council members who shall be qualified
electors and who shall be elected at large. council members shall serve for a
term of four (4) years and/or until a successor is elected and qualifies. The
mayor shall serve for a term of two (2) years and/or until a successor is
elected and qualifies. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 2.04. Incompatible Offices. No member of the Council shall hold any
municipal office or employment through the City other than that to which
elected. Further, until one (1) year after the expiration of member's term, no
mayor or council member shall be appointed or employed by the City in a
compensated position which was created, or the compensation for which was
increased, during member’s term as mayor or council member. (Amended 2023 Ord.
1009.)
   Section 2.05. Vacancies. A vacancy in the Council, whether it be in the
office of mayor or council member, shall be deemed to exist in case of the
failure of any person elected thereto to qualify, or by reason of the death,
resignation in writing filed with the city administrator, removal from office,
non-residence in the city, conviction of a felony of any such person after
their election, or by reason of the failure of any Council member without good
cause to attend Council meetings for a period of three (3) consecutive months.
In each such case the Council shall by resolution declare the vacancy to exist.
(Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 2.06. The Mayor's Power and Duties.
   Subdivision 1. The mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council and shall
have a vote as a member. The mayor shall be recognized as head of the city
government for all ceremonial purposes, by the courts for the purpose of
serving civil process, and by the governor for purposes of martial law. Other
than for the purposes specifically stated in this paragraph, as an individual,
the mayor shall have no administrative authority. (Amended 2004 Ord. 742;
Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 2. Consistent with the responsibility to accept considerable
leadership over the general conduct of City affairs, the mayor may study the
operations of the city government and recommend desirable changes and
improvements to the Council. The mayor shall also deliver messages to the
Council and the public, including a comprehensive message on the state of the
City as soon as practicable after the beginning of each year of the mayor’s
term of office. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 3. The Council shall choose an acting mayor from the council
members. The acting mayor shall perform the duties of mayor during the
disability or absence of the mayor, or, in case of vacancy in the office of
mayor, until a successor has been appointed and qualifies. If there is a
vacancy in the office of the mayor, the Council shall choose a vice acting
mayor from the council members to perform the duties of the mayor during the
disability or absence of the acting mayor until a successor mayor is elected
and qualifies. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009; Amended 2023 Ord. 1011.)
   Section 2.07. Salaries. The mayor and council members shall receive such
compensation as is fixed by the Council in accordance with state law. Any
increases in such compensation shall not become effective until after the next
municipal election. Other officers and employees of the City shall receive such
salaries or wages as may be fixed by the Council. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 2.08. Investigation of City Affairs. The Council may make
investigations into the affairs of the City and the conduct of any City
department, office or agency and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses,
administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. The
Council shall provide for an audit of the City's accounts at least once a year
by the state department in charge of such work or by a certified public
accountant. At any time the Council may provide for an examination or audit of
the City accounts of any City officer or agency, and it may provide for any
survey or research study of any subject of municipal concern.
CHAPTER 3:    COUNCIL PROCEDURE
   Section 3.01. Council Meetings. The Council shall meet regularly at least
twice each month at such times and places as the Council may designate by
ordinance. The mayor or any two (2) members of the Council may call special
meetings of the Council upon at least twenty-four (24) hours’ notice to each
member, and such reasonable public notice as may be prescribed by Council rule
in compliance with the laws of Minnesota. The twenty-four (24) hours notice
shall not be required in an emergency. To the extent provided by law, all
meetings of the Council and its committees shall be public, and any citizen
shall have access to the minutes and records of the Council at all reasonable
times. During any of its public meetings, the Council shall not prohibit, but
may place reasonable restrictions upon citizen's comments and questions.
(Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 3.02. Liaison Function. Councilmembers shall be assigned as liaison
to City departments. Their assignments shall be rotated periodically and shall
involve no administrative responsibility.
   Section 3.03. Rules of Procedure and Quorum. Except as otherwise provided in
this Charter, the Council shall determine its own rules and order of business.
A majority of all members shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from time to time. The Council may by rule provide
means by which a minority may compel the attendance of absent members in
accordance with state law.
   Section 3.04. Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions.
   Subdivision 1. Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, state law or a
more restrictive city ordinance, an affirmative vote of three (3) or more
members of the Council shall be required for the adoption of all ordinances,
resolutions and motions. The votes of council members on any action taken shall
be recorded in accordance with state law.(Amended 2000 Ord. 649; Amended 2023
Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 2. Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, all legislation
shall be by ordinance. The vote on all ordinances shall be by a roll call vote.
   Subdivision 3. The general administrative business of the Council shall be
conducted by resolution or motion.
   Section 3.05. Procedure on Ordinances. Every proposed ordinance shall be
presented in writing and read in full before adoption, unless the reading is
dispensed with by unanimous consent of the Council. No ordinance shall contain
more than one (1) subject. Such subject shall be clearly expressed in its
title. The enacting clause shall be “The City of Mounds View ordains”. No
ordinance, except an emergency ordinance, shall be adopted at the meeting at
which it is introduced and at least fourteen (14) calendar days shall elapse
between its introduction and final adoption. Every ordinance must contain a
specified effective date as noted in Section
3.09  of this Charter.(Amended 2007 Ord. 790; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 3.06. Emergency Ordinances. An emergency ordinance is an ordinance
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, morals,
safety or welfare, in which ordinance the emergency is defined and declared in
a preamble thereto. An emergency ordinance must be approved by a majority of
available members of the Council. An emergency ordinance must be in writing but
may be enacted without previous filing or voting, and may be adopted finally at
the meeting at which it is first introduced and voted upon by the Council. An
emergency ordinance shall remain in effect for the duration of the emergency.
No prosecution shall be based upon the provisions of an emergency ordinance
until twenty-four (24) hours after the ordinance has been adopted, filed with
the city administrator, and has either been posted in three (3) conspicuous
places in the City, or published as provided for in this Charter, or the person
charged with violation thereof had actual notice of the ordinance prior to the
act or omission resulting in the prosecution. (Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended
2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 3.07. Signing, and Publication of Ordinances.
   Subdivision 1. Every ordinance adopted by the Council shall be signed by the
mayor, and attested to, filed and preserved by the city administrator. Every
ordinance shall be published at least once in the official newspaper no earlier
than eight (8) calendar days nor later than seventeen (17) calendar days from
the date of passage, either in its complete form preceded by a summary of its
contents or as a title and summary. (Amended 2002 Ord. 700; Amended 2007 Ord.
790; Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 2. The ordinance or the ordinance title and summary shall be
published in a body type no smaller than brevier or eight-point (8-point) type.
A copy of any new ordinance may be obtained from the City at no cost. The
entire text of the ordinance shall be posted on the City’s web-site, if there
is one, in a manner that can be identifiable by subject matter or ordinance
number. A copy shall also be available in the community library, if there is
one, or if not, in any other public location which the Council designates.
(Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 3. In the case of lengthy ordinances, or ordinances that include
charts or maps, if the Council determines that publication of the title and a
summary of an ordinance would clearly inform the public of the intent and
effect of the ordinance, the Council may by a four-fifths’ (4/5ths’) vote of
its members, direct that only the title of the ordinance and a summary be
published, with notice that a printed copy of the ordinance is available for
inspection during regular office hours at the office of the city administrator.
Prior to the publication of the title and summary, the Council shall approve
the text of the summary and determine that it clearly informs the public of the
intent and effect of the ordinance, and shall further state that the complete
text of the ordinance is on file at the office of the city administrator. The
publishing of the title and summary shall be deemed to fulfill all legal
publication requirements as completely as if the entire ordinance had been
published. A copy of the publication shall be attached to and filed with the
ordinance for reference. To the extent and in the manner provided by law an
ordinance may incorporate by reference a statute of Minnesota, a state
administrative rule or a regulation, a code or ordinance or part thereof
without publishing the material referred to in full, so long as the complete
reference to the item is included.(Amended 2007 Ord. 790; Amended 2023 Ord.
1009.)
   Section 3.08. Procedure on Resolutions. Every resolution shall be presented
in writing and read in full before adoption, unless the reading is dispensed
with by unanimous consent of the Council.
   Section 3.09. When Ordinances and Resolutions Take Effect. Every resolution
and emergency ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its adoption or at
such later date as it specifies. Every other ordinance shall take effect thirty
(30) calendar days after its publication or at such later date as it specifies
unless challenged by a petition for referendum that is not deemed to be
frivolous by the Council. In the event of a petition for referendum that is not
deemed to be frivolous, the Council must suspend the effective date of the
ordinance as specified in Section
5.07  of this Charter. (Amended by Ordinance 790, Adopted July 23, 2007; Filed:
August 29, 2007.)
   Section 3.10. Amendment and Repeal of Ordinances and Resolutions.
   Subdivision 1. An ordinance or resolution which repeals all or part of a
previous ordinance or resolution shall give the number, if any, and the title
of the ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. No ordinance
or resolution shall be amended by reference to the title alone, but an
ordinance or resolution which amends such ordinance or resolution shall set
forth in full each section or subdivision to be amended and shall indicate by
appropriate type or symbols matter to be omitted or added. Amendment or repeal
of an ordinance shall require a majority vote of all the members of the
Council, unless otherwise provided in this Charter or by state law.
   Subdivision 2. An ordinance or resolution passed under the initiative power
of
Chapter 5 Section 5.06 shall not be repealed or amended by the Council except
by submission to the voters of the question by the Council at a regular
municipal or special election. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 3.11. Review and Revision of Ordinances and Indexing of Resolutions.
The City shall review, revise and rearrange its ordinance code and its
resolution index with such additions and deletions as may be deemed necessary
by the Council at least once every two (2) years. The ordinance code and the
resolution index may be published in book, pamphlet, or loose-leaf form, and
copies shall be made available by the Council at the office of the city
administrator for general distribution to the public for a reasonable charge.
Incorporation in such a code shall be a sufficient publication of any ordinance
provision not previously published, if a notice is placed in the official
newspaper for at least two (2) successive weeks that copies of the codification
are available at the office of the city administrator. (Amended 2010 Ord. 841;
Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
CHAPTER 4:    NOMINATION AND ELECTIONS
   Section 4.01. The Regular Municipal Election. A regular municipal election
shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first-Monday in November of each
even numbered year commencing in 1980 at such places as the City Council shall
designate. At least fifteen (15) days prior notice shall be given by the city
administrator by posting a notice thereof in at least one (1) public place in
each election precinct, and by publishing a notice thereof at least once in the
official newspaper of the City stating the time and the places of holding such
election and of the officers to be elected. Failure to give such notice shall
not invalidate such election. Elected and qualified officers provided for by
this Charter shall assume the duties of office to which they were elected on
the first business day in January following such election. (Amended 2010 Ord.
841; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 4.02. Filing for Office.
   Subdivision 1. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes section 205.13, subdivision
la, as amended, an affidavit of candidacy for a city office must be filed
within the time frame specified and in accordance with the statute with the
exception that the fee portion of the statute shall be superseded by the
following: Any resident of the city qualified under state law for elective
office may, by filing an affidavit and by paying a filing fee of $20 or by
filing a petition in compliance with Minn. Stat. 205.13, Subd. 4, as amended,
to the city administrator, have their name placed on the municipal election
ballot. (Amended 1986 Ord. 404; Amended 1998 Ord. 435; Amended 2004 Ord. 736;
Amended 2005 Ord. 759; Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended 2013 Ord. 878; Amended
2022 Ord. 994; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 2. Severability. If any part of this section shall be declared
unconstitutional by court, all others shall remain in full force and effect.
(11-8-94 Election, Effective 12-8-94, Filed 2-21-95)
   Section 4.03. Procedure at Elections. Consistent with the provisions of this
Charter and applicable state laws, the Council may by ordinance further
regulate the conduct of municipal elections. Except as otherwise provided by
this Charter and supplementary ordinances, general state laws on elections
shall apply to municipal elections.
   Section 4.04. Special and Advisory Elections except for Elected Office. The
Council shall by resolution order a special or advisory election and provide
all means for holding it. At least fifteen (15) days’ prior notice shall be
given by the city administrator by posting a notice thereof in at least one (1)
public place in each election precinct, and by publishing a notice thereof at
least once in the official newspaper of the City stating the time and places of
holding such election. Failure to give such notice shall not invalidate such
election. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 4.05. Vacancy of Municipal Elected Office.
   Subdivision 1. When a vacancy in an elected office of the City occurs with
365 days or more remaining in the term of the vacated office, there shall be a
special election held to elect a successor to serve for the remainder of the
unexpired term of the vacated office. The special election shall be held at the
next uniform election date specified in Minnesota Statute 205.10, subd. 3a, as
it may be amended from time to time, for which all legal requirements for
special elections can be met by the City. (The determination of vacancy is
found in
Chapter 2, Section 2.05 Vacancies.) (Amended 2022 Ord. 995; Amended 2022 Ord.
996.)
   Subdivision 2. The city administrator shall give at least sixty (60) days’
published prior notice of the date of the special election and such notice
shall comply with all notice requirements under Minnesota Statues, section
205.16, except as set forth under Subdivision 5 of this section. (Amended 2010
Ord. 841; Amended 2022 Ord. 996; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 3. The procedure at such election and assumption of duties of
elected officers following such election shall conform as nearly as practicable
to that prescribed for other municipal elections under this Charter.
   Subdivision 4. In the case of a vacancy where there remains less than 365
days in the unexpired term, the Council shall by a majority vote appoint a
successor to serve for the remainder of said term. In the case of a tie vote of
the Council, the Mayor shall make said appointment.
   Subdivision 5. When a vacancy in an elected municipal office occurs within
120 days prior to a regular municipal election date, the special election to
fill the vacancy shall coincide with the regular election. If the vacancy
occurs within sixty (60) days prior to the regular election date, the notice of
such vacancy shall be published as soon as is practicable. If within the 120-
day period before a regular municipal election, the vacancy occurs in the
office of the mayor or in the office of either or both of the council members
whose seats are to be decided in the election, said vacancy shall be considered
not to exist for purposes of the election. However, if such vacancy occurs in
the office of either of the other two (2) council members, the seat shall be
filled by the candidate for council member with the third highest vote total,
or, in the case of two (2) vacancies, the third and fourth highest vote totals.
Where two (2) vacancies exist, the candidate with the third highest total shall
fill the vacancy in the office having the longest unexpired term. Candidates
filing a vacancy shall take office at or before the next regularly scheduled
Council meeting following election certification. (Amended 2004 Ord. 748;
Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.).
   Subdivision 6. If there are insufficient numbers of candidates in a regular
or special election to fill expiring or vacated municipal offices, the Council
shall fill said offices by appointment until the next regular municipal
election. In the case of a tie vote of the Council, the mayor shall make said
appointment. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
CHAPTER 5:    INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL
   Section 5.01 General Voter Authority*. The people of Mounds View, have the
right in accordance with this Charter, to propose ordinances (initiative) and
to require that any ordinance be referred to the voters (referendum), except
those that appropriate money, levy taxes or deal with administrative issues
(Minnesota Statutes, section 410.20, as amended). The voters also have the
right to remove elected public officials (recall). The term voter(s), as used
in
Chapter 5 , shall refer only to residents of the City of Mounds View who first
register, or who have registered and are qualified to vote. Per Minnesota
Statutes, section 200.039, as amended, eligibility to sign the petition is not
restricted to only those who were eligible to or did cast ballots in the
previous election. For clarity flow charts and time lines are attached as
appendices at the end of this Charter. In all cases, the Charter text shall
take priority over the appendices should there appear to be a discrepancy.
(Amended 2007 Ord. 790; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 5.02. Petitions. A petition provided for under this chapter shall be
sponsored by a committee of five (5) to ten (10) members who are voters of the
city and whose names and addresses must appear on the petition as the
sponsoring committee. A completed petition consists of one (1) or more pages
gathered together as a single document. Each separately circulated page shall
contain at its head, or attached thereto, the information specified in sections
5.05 ,
5.07  or
5.08  which apply, respectively, to initiative, referendum and recall. The
sponsoring committee may obtain a sample petition from the city administrator.
The city administrator shall provide the number of signatures for petition
sufficiency which is based on the total number of ballots cast for president in
the most recent presidential election. All petition circulators must be voters
of the city. Each separate page of the petition must include a certificate
signed and dated by the circulator. The certificate shall affirm that each
circulator believes the page to contain the genuine signatures of the voters
whose names they purport to be and that each signer was presented with the full
petition. Each signer of a petition must be a voter of the city and must sign
and print their name and give their street address. The completed petition
shall be submitted to the city administrator for review. Any voter whose name
appears on a petition may withdraw their name by filing a statement in writing
with the city administrator before the city administrator advises the Council
of the information related to the sufficiency of the petition or, if such
completed petition is deemed insufficient pursuant to this Charter, during any
time period that additional signature papers are being circulated by the
sponsoring committee or reviewed by the city administrator pursuant to Section
5.04 . Consistent with the provisions of this Charter and the applicable state
laws and rules, the Council may prescribe by ordinance or resolution, the
definition of a frivolous petition. (Amended 2007 Ord. 790; Amended 2010 Ord.
841; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 5.03. Determination of Petition Sufficiency. For a petition to be
sufficient, it must meet the requirements set forth in section
5.02  and contain at least the following:
   •   Petitions for initiative and referendum require signatures numbering at
least fifteen percent (15%) of the total ballots cast for president in the most
recent presidential election.
   •   Petitions for recall require signatures at least twenty-five percent
(25%) of the total ballots cast for president in the most recent presidential
election.
If all requirements have been met, the city administrator shall report to the
Council within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of the completed petition.
Thereafter, the Council shall immediately declare the sufficiency of the
petition by resolution, (Amended 2007 Ord. 790; Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended
2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 5.04. Disposition of Insufficient or Frivolous Petition. If the
petition appears to be frivolous, the city administrator shall report to the
Council within ten (10) calendars days of receipt of the petition. If the
Council determines the petition is frivolous, the Council shall direct the city
administrator to the file the petition as frivolous and no further action shall
be taken. If the city administrator determines that the petition does not meet
the requirements for sufficiency and is not determined to be frivolous, a copy
of the petition, together with a written statement of its defects, shall be
delivered to the sponsoring committee and to the Council within ten (10)
calendar days of receipt of the completed petition. As specified in this
Charter, the sponsoring committee shall have twenty-one (21) calendar days to
file additional signature papers and/or to correct the specified insufficiency.
Within nine (9) calendar days of receipt of the corrected completed petition,
the city administrator shall determine whether the petition as corrected meets
the requirements for sufficiency and shall proceed as directed in Section
5.03 . If the petition is still insufficient, the Council shall direct the city
administrator to file the petition as insufficient and notify the sponsoring
committee within ten (10) calendar days that no further action will be taken.
The final finding that the petition is insufficient shall not prejudice the
filing of a new petition for the same purpose unless otherwise specified within
this Charter. Except in the case of a petition for recall, it shall not prevent
the Council from referring the subject matter of the petition to the voters at
the next regular or special election. (Amended 2007 Ord. 790; Amended 2010 Ord.
841; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 5.05. Ballot Measure Requirements. If a measure meets the
requirements to be put on a ballot and is in compliance with
Chapter 4  of this Charter, at or before its next regularly scheduled meeting,
the Council shall pass a resolution placing the measure on a ballot. If it is
within 120 calendar days of a primary or general election and all of the county
election requirements can be met, the measure shall be placed on the ballot at
the next regularly scheduled election. If a measure meets the requirements to
be put on a ballot but cannot be placed on the ballot at a regularly scheduled
election, at or before its next regularly scheduled meeting, the Council shall
pass a resolution placing the measure on the ballot and calling for a special
election to be held within 120 calendar days of said meeting. However, no
special elections can be held between a regular primary election and a regular
general election or forty (40) calendar days after a regular general election.
If there is no regular primary election then no special election shall be held
within sixty (60) calendar days prior to a regular general election. (Amended
2007 Ord. 790; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 5.06. Initiative*. An ordinance may be proposed by petition. The
exact text of the proposed ordinance must be stated at the head of each page of
the petition or attached thereto. The petition shall be filed in the city
administrator's office prior to circulation and shall be valid for 180 calendar
days during which time a completed petition with signatures must be filed. If a
petition for initiative is determined to be frivolous, it is prohibited from
being repeated within 180 calendar days of the determination. Within sixty (60)
calendar days after final determination of the petition’s sufficiency according
to Section
5.03  and
5.04  of this Charter, the Council must either adopt an ordinance according to
Subdivisions 1 or 2 or pass a resolution to place the measure on a ballot as
provided in Subdivision 3. Any amendment to the proposed ordinance must proceed
according to Subdivision 2 of this section. If an ordinance is adopted, it
shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days after publication unless the
ordinance specifies a later effective date. If the vote for adoption fails, the
ordinance must be placed on the ballot as provided in Section
5.05 . If a ballot measure for a proposed ordinance fails the same measure is
prohibited from being brought forward again as an initiative within 180
calendar days of the election certification. Failure of a ballot measure for a
proposed ordinance shall not prevent the Council from proposing a similar
ordinance. (Amended 2000 Ord. 650; 2007 Ord. 790; Amended 2010 Ord. 841;
Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 1. If the Council elects to adopt the ordinance as provided by
the petition without amendment, they shall proceed in accordance with Section
3.05 of this Charter. During this adoption process, the ordinance cannot be
amended but, if adopted, is subject to the referendum process as defined in
Section
5.07. (Amended by Ordinance 790, Adopted July 23, 2007; Filed: August 29,2007.)
   Subdivision 2. If an amendment to the ordinance is proposed by a majority
vote of the Council, it must be presented to the sponsoring committee prior to
the first reading of the proposed ordinance. The sponsoring committee shall
have fourteen (14) calendar days from the receipt of the amended proposed
ordinance to disapprove the amendment by majority vote, and file a statement
with the city administrator. Upon receipt of a statement of disapproval from
the sponsoring committee, the Council must either adopt the proposed ordinance,
according to Subdivision 1 of this section, or place the ordinance, as
presented by the sponsoring committee, on the ballot as provided in Section
5.05. If the sponsoring committee does not submit a statement of disapproval,
the ordinance can proceed, as amended, according to Section
3.05 with no further amendments and, if adopted, is subject to the referendum
process as defined in Section
5.07 of this Charter. If the vote for adoption fails, the ordinance, as
amended, must be placed on the ballot as provided in Section
5.05. If an amended ordinance is approved at a first reading, the Council may
choose to submit the ordinance, as amended, as a ballot measure. (Amended 2007
Ord. 790; Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 3. If the ordinance is required to be put on a ballot, or if the
Council chooses to submit the ordinance as presented as a ballot measure, they
shall proceed as provided for in Section
5.05 of this Charter. If a majority of those voting on the ordinance vote in
its favor, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days after adoption
certification of the election results unless the ordinance specifies a later
effective date. If the majority does not vote in favor, the ordinance shall not
be enacted. (Amended by Ordinance 790, Adopted July 23,2007; Filed: August 29,
2007.)
   Section 5.07. Referendum*. Prior to the date when an ordinance takes effect,
it may be subjected to a referendum by a petition which shall state at the head
of each page, or attached thereto, the exact text of the measure to be
considered by the voters. The sponsoring committee must file the completed
petition in the office of the city administrator at least ten (10) calendar
days before the ordinance takes effect. If a petition is determined to be
frivolous, no further action on the petition shall be taken and the adoption of
the ordinance shall proceed according to Section
3.05 . If the petition is found to be sufficient under the provisions of
Section
5.03  of this chapter, the Council must immediately adopt a resolution
suspending the effective date of the ordinance until it is decided by a vote of
the public. The Council must also immediately pass a resolution to place the
measure on a ballot as provided in Section
5.05  of this Charter. If a majority of the voters favors the ordinance
contained in the petition, it shall take effect immediately unless the
ordinance specifies a later date. If a majority votes against the ordinance
contained in the petition, it shall be considered repealed upon certification
of the election results. If the petition does not meet the requirements of
sufficiency under the provisions in Section
5.03  of this chapter and is determined not to be frivolous, the Council must
adopt a resolution suspending the effective date of the ordinance for thirty
(30) calendar days and the sponsoring committee will have twenty-one (21)
calendar days in which to file additional signature papers and/or to correct
the specified insufficiency according to Section
5.04 . If the final finding is that the petition is insufficient, the ordinance
shall take effect on the date declared by the resolution of suspension. If the
corrected petition is declared sufficient according to Section
5.03 , the Council must pass a resolution suspending the effective date of the
ordinance until it can be decided by a vote of the public and proceed as
previously mentioned in this section. (Amended 2000 Ord. 651; 2007 Ord. 790;
Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 5.08. Recall.
   Subdivision 1. The voters of the city may request a recall vote of any
elected official of the city by petition. The petition shall state at the head
of each page, or attached thereto, a certificate stating the name of the
official whose removal is sought, the grounds for recall, which shall be
malfeasance or misfeasance in office, in not more than 250 words, and the
intention of the sponsoring committee to bring about the official's recall. The
petition shall be filed in the city administrator's office prior to circulation
and shall be valid for 180 calendar days during which time a completed petition
with signatures must be filed. (Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 2. The city administrator shall notify the official sought to be
recalled of the petition and proceed as provided in Section
5.03 and
5.04 of this Charter. If a petition for recall is determined to be frivolous,
it is prohibited from being repeated within one (1) year of the determination.
If the Council declares the petition sufficient, it shall immediately pass a
resolution to place the measure on a ballot as provided for in Section
5.05 of this charter. Within fourteen (14) calendar days of the declaration of
sufficiency, the elected official named by the petition may provide a response
for their own course of action in not more than 500 words. The city
administrator shall include with the published notice of the election, the
statement of the grounds for the recall and the response of the official
concerned or a statement stating no response was received. If a majority of
those voting on the recall vote in its favor, it shall become effective
immediately upon certification of the election results. If the majority does
not vote in favor, the recall has failed and a petition for recall is
prohibited from being repeated for that elected official for one (1) year from
the date of certification of the election. If a vacancy occurs due to recall
election, Section
4.05 herein shall apply to fill said vacancy. (Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended
2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 5.09. Initiative to Amend the Charter. Nothing in this chapter shall
be construed as in any way affecting the right of the voters to propose
amendments to this Charter which can be proposed in accordance with Minnesota
Statutes, section 410.12, as amended. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
* Minnesota courts have limited the powers of initiative and referendum to
ordinances which are legislative in character. General legislative acts lay
down some permanent and uniform rule of law, administrative acts relate to
daily administration of municipal affairs, and quasi judicial acts are the
product of investigation, consideration and deliberate human judgment based
upon evidentiary facts of some sort.
CHAPTER 6:    ADMINISTRATION OF CITY AFFAIRS
   Section 6.01. Administrative Responsibility. The Council as a body, shall be
responsible for the administration of the City. The Council shall appoint an
administrative officer to assist in the administration of City affairs. For
purposes of reference in this Charter, this administrative officer shall be
referred to as the city administrator. (Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended 2023
Ord. 1009.)
   Section 6.02. Administrative Organization.
   Subdivision 1. The Council may by ordinance establish City departments,
offices, and agencies and prescribe their functions. No power or duty conferred
by this Charter upon a particular office or agency shall be transferred to
another.
   Subdivision 2. The Council shall hire heads of departments, and such other
and further officers and personnel as may be required to operate the City
efficiently. The Council shall determine the qualifications thereof and
prescribe the duties to be performed by each, except as otherwise prescribed in
this Charter. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 3. The head of departments and other officers designated by the
Council shall report in person to the Council and to the public at least once
each quarter at a regularly scheduled Council meeting.
   Section 6.03. Duties of the City Administrator. The duties of the city
administrator shall be specified in Section
32.015  of City Code, as amended, and shall include those in Minnesota Statutes
for city clerk unless otherwise assigned in City Code. The Council shall
provide for the designation, delegation and/or assignment of some or all the
duties to other city staff as needed. (Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended 2023 Ord.
1009.)
   Section 6.04. City Treasurer. The Council shall appoint a treasurer. This
office shall be separate from that of the city administrator and shall include
those duties for treasurer in Minnesota Statutes unless otherwise assigned in
City Code. (Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
CHAPTER 7:    TAXATION AND FINANCES
   Section 7.01. Council to Control Finances. The Council shall have full
authority over the financial affairs of the City except as limited or
prohibited by the Minnesota Constitution, Minnesota Statutes, or this Charter.
It shall provide for the collection of all revenues and other assets, and the
auditing and settlement of accounts. It shall further provide for the
safekeeping and disbursements of public monies by the city treasurer. (Amended
2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 7.02. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the City shall be the calendar
year.
   Section 7.03. System of Taxation. Subject to the state constitution, and
except as forbidden by it or by state law, the Council shall have full power to
provide by ordinance for a system of local taxation. This authority includes
the power by ordinance to assess, levy, and collect taxes on all subjects or
objects of taxation except as limited or prohibited by the state constitution,
by this Charter or by state laws imposing restrictions upon the City
irrespective of Charter provisions.
   Subdivision 1. The City’s annual resolution to levy ad valorem taxes
(raising money against real and personal property) shall adhere to the
following formula: the tax levy dollar amount may be increased up to six and
one-half percent (6.5%) over the prior year tax levy dollar amount, except in
the following circumstances:
   A)   The tax levy dollar amount may be increased an additional two and one-
half percent (2 5%), to a total of nine percent (9%), over the prior year tax
levy dollar amount by an affirmative vote of four (4) or more members of the
Council.
   B)   The tax levy dollar amount may be increased to Consumer Price Index
(CPI) plus two and one-half percent (2 5%), if CPI exceeds six and one-half
percent (6.5%), by an affirmative vote of four (4) members of the Council. The
CPI shall be the twelve (12) month average of the most recently published data
for all urban consumers in the Minneapolis, Saint Paul metropolitan area, as
defined by the U. S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics.
   C)   The limits in this subdivision shall be suspended for one (1) year
after the decertification of a tax increment financing district. (Amended 2006
Ord. 772; Amended 2022 Ord. 984; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 2. The Council may levy a tax against real and personal property
in excess of the
limit set in Subdivision 1 provided the Council shall:
   A)   Adopt a resolution declaring the necessity for a n additional tax levy
and specifying the purposes for which such additional tax levy is required.
   B)   Hold a public hearing upon at least ten (10) days’ posted and published
notice in the City’s official newspaper, City newsletter, and, if available,
the City web-site, setting forth the contents of the resolution described in
Subdivision 2A.
   C)   After such public hearing, adopt by an affirmative vote of at least
four (4) members of the Council such resolution language which is readily
understandable and a summary of such resolution will be the ballot question for
the electorate at the next regular municipal election or special election, per
Section
4.04, as amended, prior to the final levy approval.
   D)   If the additional tax levy resolution is then approved by the voters
under
Chapter 4 of this Charter then the levy shall be implemented in the following
fiscal year or later date as specified in the resolution. (Amended 2006 Ord.
772; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 3. Any other fee or levy, created, or increased beyond the
limits set forth in Subdivision 1, shall require voter approval as stipulated
in Subdivision 2 of this Section.
   a)   For the purposes of this Section, “fee” includes utility charges (other
than water, sanitary sewer, storm water and street light), recycling fees,
franchise fees (for gas and electric) and shall also include any other fee that
produces a tax burden or direct financial obligation to a simple majority of
property owners and/or residents of Mounds View and not specifically excluded
in Section
7.03, Subd. 3b. (Amended by Ordinance 819, Adopted May 11,2009; Effective:
August 19,2009.)
   b)   For the purposes of this Section, the term “fee” does not include:
filing for office fee, park or recreational participation fees, charges for
photo-copying, sales of municipal liquor store products, building and zoning
permit or inspection and planning fees, or civil, criminal and banking fines
and other charges collected in cases of restitution or violation of law or
contract. The term “fee” does not include charges collected by the direction of
the state, county or other taxation authority, or as a result of joint powers
agreements. The term “fee” also does not include rental housing fees, liquor
license fees, cable franchise fees, annual license fees for the operation of a
regulated business, fees for services, including health and safety related code
enforcement, and other goods, services or materials routinely provided by the
City that for those applicable, pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, the amount
charged shall reflect the actual cost. The term “fee” shall not include any
special assessments made under Minnesota Statutes Chapter 429, as amended.
(Amended by 2006 Ord. 772; Amended 2009 Ord. 819; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   c)   For the purposes of this Section, "fee increase" includes a new tax or
fee, a monetary increase in an existing tax or fee, a tax or fee rate increase,
an expansion in the legal definition of a tax or fee base, and an extension of
an expiring tax or fee, excluding the annual recertification of the utility
franchise fee. (Amended by Ordinance 819, Adopted May 11,2009; Effective:
August 19, 2009.)
   d)   This Section does not apply to any specific emergency measure
authorized in
Chapter 7 Section 7.12. or MN Statute 475.754, as amended.
   Subdivision 4. The City shall not levy to increase any fund reserve beyond
fifty percent (50%) of an average of that fund’s previous five (5) years of
annual expenditures. The Council may raise a fund’s reserve beyond fifty
percent (50%) provided:
   a)   the Council designates by resolution and holds a public hearing
reviewing the purpose of the reserve increase and the City follows such
proposed increase with the steps outlined in Subdivision 2 of this Section the
year prior to the collection of such increased taxation or fee, or
   b).   the Council modifies and adopts by resolution the five-year (5-year)
financial plan, as defined in
Chapter 7, Section 7.05, as amended, specifying the fund reserve purpose and
the City follows such proposed increase with the steps outlined in Subdivision
2 of this Section the year prior to the collection of such increased taxation
or fee.
Moneys raised by tax increment financing shall not be included in the
calculation of reserve limit. This subdivision and section shall not limit or
impair the City’s ability to create tax increment financing or enter into
development agreements specified by Minnesota Statutes, sections 469.174 to
469.1799, as amended. This subdivision shall not require the City to divest or
expend any excess of any reserve fund(s) currently exceeding the specified
limit, provided the Council, within ninety (90) days of adopting this section,
designates by resolution the purpose of the reserve or adopts a modified five-
year (5-year) financial plan reflecting the reserve purpose. (Amended 2006 Ord.
772; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 5. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to impair any
general obligation the City may have in support of otherwise lawful
indebtedness or similar obligation supported by the full faith and credit of
the City, provided, however, that long-term, general obligation indebtedness
shall not be used for the purpose of funding the routine and daily business
operations of the City. (Amended 2006 Ord. 772.)
   Section 7.04. Submission of Budget.
   Subdivision 1. Annually, on or before September 15 of each year or as
specified by Minnesota Statutes, section 275.065, as amended, the city
administrator shall submit to the Council the budget estimates for funds
levying property taxes for the ensuing fiscal year and an accompanying summary
message in accordance with a budget calendar to be established by resolution.
   The total proposed operating budget to be provided from the property tax
shall not exceed the amounts authorized by state law and this Charter.
Consistent with these provisions, the budget shall contain such information and
be in the form prescribed by the Council. The final budget shall provide a
complete financial plan for all City funds and activities for the ensuing
fiscal year and except as required by state law or this Chatter, shall be in
such form as the Council may require.
   It shall include a summary and show in detail all estimated income and all
proposed expenditures, including debt service and comparative figures for the
current fiscal year, actual and estimated, and the preceding year. In addition
to showing proposed expenditures for current operations, it shall show proposed
capital expenditures to be made during the year and the proposed method of
financing each such capital expenditure. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 2. For each enterprise operated by the City, its proposed and
final budgets shall show income, expenditure, and anticipated net surplus or
deficit with the proposed disposition method.
   Subdivision 3. The city administrator’s message shall explain the budget,
both in fiscal terms and in terms of the work programs, linking programs to
goals of the City and community priorities. It shall outline the proposed
financial policies and programs of the City for the ensuing fiscal year and the
impact of those policies and programs compared to the City's current five-year
plan, as adopted by the Council. It shall describe the important features of
the budget, indicate any major changes in financial policies, expenditures, and
revenues together with the reasons for such changes. It shall summarize the
City’s debt position for each fund, including factors affecting the ability to
raise resources through debt issues, and include such other material as the
city administrator deems desirable or as requested by the Council. (Amended
2010 Ord. 841; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 4. Budget Planning Guideline. The purpose of this section is to
provide the public with a general time table for the annual budget process. The
dates are guidelines and subject to change by the City Council and Minnesota
Statutes, section 275.065, as amended.
   Activity Estimated Time Period
   Five-Year Plan: Development                               Jan. 1 to May 1
   Five-Year Plan: Public Review                            May 1 to May 20
   Five-Year Plan: Council Approval               July 15 to August 1
   Annual Budget Calendar: Adopted by Council                  June 1
   Five-Year Plan: Published to Public            August 1 to August 15
   Annual Budget: Public Input to Department                  June 1 to Sept 1
   Annual Budget: City Administrator Develops
   Summary and Estimate Proposal for Council                  Aug. 1 to Sept.
15
   Annual Budget: Estimates Submitted to Council               Sept. 15
   Annual Budget: Proposal and Tax Levy Estimates
   Council Adoption                                     Sept. 15
   Annual Budget: Council Review and Amend                  Sept. 15 to Nov 23
   Annual Budget and Tax Levy: Proposal
   Published to Public                                  Sept. 15 to Dec. 1
   Annual Budget and Tax Levy: Public Review                  Sept. 15 to Dec.
20
   Annual Budget: Public Hearing Advertised                  Nov.
   Annual Budget and Tax Levy: Initial Public Hearing            Nov. 29 to
Dec. 20
   Annual Budget and Tax Levy: Council Adoption               Dec. 5 to Dec. 20
   Annual Budget and Tax Levy: Final Council
   Budget Summary Published to Public                         Dec. 20 to Feb. 1
(Amended 2023 Ord. 1009; Amended 2024 Ord. 1017.)
   Section 7.05. Five-Year Financial Plan.
   Subdivision 1. The Council shall have prepared a five-year (5-year)
financial plan commencing with the ensuing calendar year. The Council shall
hold a public hearing upon at least ten (10) days’ posted and published notice
in the City’s official newspaper and, if available, the City web-site and shall
then adopt the five-year (5-year) financial plan, with or without amendment, by
August 1 of each year. The financial plan shall consist of at least the
following three (3) elements as specified in subdivisions 2 through 4 which
follow: (Amended 2009 Ord. 839; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009; Amended 2024 Ord.
1017.)
   Subdivision 2. The capital improvement program shall contain a list of all
capital improvements proposed to be undertaken during the next five (5) fiscal
years, with appropriate supporting information as to the necessity for such
improvements; cost estimate, method of financing and recommended time schedule
for each such improvement; and the estimated annual cost of operating and
maintaining the facilities to be constructed or acquired. This information
shall be revised and extended each year for capital improvements still pending
or in process.
   Subdivision 3. A five-year (5-year) revenue and expense estimate shall
contain a tentative revenue policy that describes five-year (5-year) plans for
financing public services and capital improvements. It shall measure the
objectives and needs for each City department, the standard of services
desired, and the impact of each such service on the annual operating budget.
   Subdivision 4. The capital budget shall be a summary on the basis of a five-
year (5-year) period of the capital or money requirements for the above
described programs. It shall list a priority for each anticipated investment in
community facilities and balance this with a consideration of the availability
of necessary revenues.
   Subdivision 5. A summary of the five year (5-year) financial plan shall be
published on or by August 15 each year in the official City newspaper, the City
newsletter, and, if available, the City web-site. (Amended 2009 Ord. 839;
Amended 2023 Ord. 1009; Amended 2024 Ord. 1017.)
   Section 7.06. Council Action on Budget.
   Subdivision 1. The Council shall annually adopt a budget calendar by June 1.
The calendar will establish the time line for development and submission of the
budget and allow for public review and comment in accordance with this Charter,
the Council, and Minnesota Statutes, section 275.065, as amended. The budget
shall be considered at the first regular monthly meeting of the Council in
September and at subsequent meetings until a budget is adopted for the ensuing
year. The budget calendar will provide a thirty (30)-day period for public
review and input to the annual budget prior to final approval by the Council.
The meetings shall be so conducted as to give interested citizens a reasonable
opportunity to be heard. The Council may revise the proposed budget but no
amendment to the budget shall increase the authorized expenditures to an amount
greater than the sum of estimated income and reserves. The Council shall adopt
the budget by a resolution that shall set forth the total for each budgeted
fund and each department. The budget shall indicate the sums to be raised and
from what sources and the sums to be spent and for what purpose as the Council
deems necessary for establishing the budget. The Council shall also adopt a
resolution levying the amount of taxes provided in the budget, and the city
administrator shall certify the tax resolution to the county auditor in
accordance with state law. Adoption of the budget resolution shall constitute
appropriations at the beginning of the fiscal year of the sums fixed in the
resolution of the several purposes named. (Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended 2023
Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 2. As specified by Minnesota Statutes, section 275.065, as
amended, before the budget is adopted for the ensuing fiscal year, a public
hearing notice and summary of the proposed budget will be published in the
official City newspaper, the City newsletter, and, if available, the City web-
site. Such summary should be readily understandable by the layperson, and
should provide appropriate supporting information as to the necessity for any
increase in the budget over the total for the current fiscal year. Failure to
provide the specified summary will not invalidate the budget.
   The final budget will be published in accordance with Minnesota statutes on
truth in taxation or no later than sixty (60) days after adoption by the
Council in the official City newspaper, the City newsletter and, if available,
the City web-site. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 3. If the Council fails to adopt the budget by the beginning of
the next fiscal year, the preceding months fiscal year budget shall go into
effect for up to thirty-one (31) days or until the Council adopts a budget.
   Section 7.07. Enforcement of the Budget. The city administrator may
designate department heads or other staff who may assist with each fund or
department in the annual budget. It shall be the duty of the city administrator
to strictly enforce the detail provisions of the budget. The Council shall
strictly enforce the provisions of the budget. The Council shall not authorize
any payment or the incurring of any obligation by the City, unless an
appropriation has been made in the budget resolution, and there is a sufficient
unexpended balance after deducting the total past expenditures and encumbrances
against the appropriation. No officer or employee of the City shall place any
order or make any purchase unless the amount is authorized in the budget
resolution and in compliance with the purchasing policies of the City as
established by the Council, the Charter, the City Code, and Minnesota statutes.
Any obligation incurred by any person in the employ of the City for any purpose
not authorized in the budget resolution, or for any amount in excess of the
amount authorized, shall be a personal obligation upon the person incurring the
obligation. No check shall be issued or transfer made to any account other than
one owned by the City until the claim to which it relates has been supported by
an itemized bill, payroll, or time sheet or other document approved and signed
by the responsible City officer who vouches for its correctness and
reasonableness. (Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 7.08. Alterations in the Budget. After the budget resolution has
been adopted, the Council may amend the budget by resolution, but shall not
increase the amounts fixed in the resolution beyond the sum of estimated
receipts and reserves, except to the extent that actual receipts exceed the
estimate or to implement Section
7.12  herein. At any time the Council may by resolution reduce the sums
appropriated for any purpose, to increase reserves or authorize the transfer of
sums from unencumbered balances in the budget.
   Section 7.09. Funds. There shall be maintained in the City treasury a
general fund and such other funds as may be required by state law, ordinance,
or resolution. The Council may, by resolution or ordinance, make inter-fund
loans, except from trust and agency funds, as it may deem necessary and
appropriate.
   Section 7.10. City Indebtedness. (Amended 2007 Ord. 782; Amended 2023 Ord.
1009.)
   Subdivision 1. Except as provided in Sections
7.11 and
7.12, no obligation shall be issued to pay current expenses, but the Council
may issue and sell obligations for any other municipal purpose in accordance
with state law and within the limitations prescribed by law. All such
obligations shall be issued and sold only with the approval of the majority of
the voters voting on the question at a general or special election, except in
the case of obligations for which an election is exempted by this Charter or by
state law.
   Subdivision 2. A description of each such proposed issue shall be published
in the official City newspaper, and, if available the City newsletter and the
City web-site, but failure to give such description, or any defect in the
description, shall not invalidate the issue. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 7.11. Anticipation Certificates. At any time after January 1, in
accordance with Minnesota Statutes, section 412.261, as amended, with the
following restrictions; the Council may issue certificates of indebtedness in
anticipation of state and federal aids and the collection of taxes levied the
previous year for any fund and not yet collected. The total amount of
certificates issued against any fund for any year together with interest
thereon until maturity shall not exceed ninety percent (90%) of the total state
and federal aids and current taxes due to the fund and uncollected at the time
of issuance. Such certificates shall be issued on such terms and conditions as
the Council may determine, but they shall become due not later than August 1 of
the year following their issuance. The proceeds of the tax levied and such
state or federal aids as the governing body may have allocated for the fund
against which tax anticipation certificates are issued, and the full faith and
credit of the City shall be irrevocably pledged for the redemption of the
certificates. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 7.12. Emergency Debt Certificates. If in any year the receipt from
taxes, availability of reserves, or other sources should for some unforeseen
cause become insufficient for the ordinary expenses of the City, or if any
calamity or other public emergency necessitates the making of extraordinary
expenditures, the Council may by ordinance issue, on such terms and in such
manner as the Council determines, emergency debt certificates not to exceed ten
percent (10%) of the total City budget and to run not to exceed three (3)
years. Taxes sufficient to pay principal and interest on such certificates with
the margin required by law shall be levied as required by law. The ordinance
authorizing the issue of such emergency debt certificates shall state the
nature of the emergency and be approved by at least three (3) members of the
Council. It may be passed as an emergency ordinance. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
 8:    PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
   Section 8.01. Power to Make Improvements and Levy Assessments. The City may
make any type of public improvement not forbidden by law and levy special
assessments to pay all or any part of the cost of such improvements as are of a
local character. The total assessments for any local improvement may not exceed
the cost of the improvement, including all costs and expenses connected
therewith, with interest. No assessment shall exceed the benefits to the
property.
   Section 8.02. Effective Charter Provisions. Local improvements (the term
"local improvement" shall mean a public improvement financed partly or wholly
from special assessments) shall be carried out exclusively under the provisions
of this Charter.
   Section 8.03. Local Improvement Ordinances and Regulations. Within ninety
(90) days after this Charter goes into effect, the Council shall enact suitable
ordinance(s) governing local improvements and special assessments. The
ordinance(s) shall provide a complete working code covering the determination
of assessments and assessment districts, public hearings, appeals from a
collection of assessments, penalties for delinquency in making payments,
financing of said assessments, and the certifying of unpaid assessments for
collection by the proper county officer. Said ordinance(s) shall also provide
for installment payments and notices to be given thereof, appellate procedure,
re-assessment, if necessary, and all other matters appropriate to the subject
of local improvements and assessments. After the adoption of such ordinance(s)
providing for local improvements, all procedures in compliance therewith shall
conform to the regulations as set forth in such ordinance(s) and as otherwise
contained in this Charter. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 8.04. Procedure.
   Subdivision 1. All improvements to be paid for by special assessments
against the benefited property shall be instituted by either, (1) the petition
of at least twenty-five percent (25%) in number of the benefited property
owners together with a resolution adopted by an affirmative vote of the
majority of all of the Council, or, (2) a resolution adopted by a four-fifths’
(4/5ths’) affirmative vote of all of the Council. The Council resolution shall
state the nature and scope of the proposed improvement, and shall provide means
to obtain a cost estimate which shall set forth the cost of the improvement
both in unit price and in total thereof. Upon receipt of such estimate, the
Council shall by resolution set a date for a public hearing on the proposed
improvement, setting forth therein the time, place and purpose of such hearing.
Such resolution shall be described in the City newsletter and published twice
at least one (1) week apart in the official newspaper of the City no less than
two (2) weeks prior to the date of said hearing, and in addition thereto, a
copy of such resolution including estimated unit prices and estimated total
price thereof shall be mailed to each benefited property owner at owner’s last
known address at least two (2) weeks prior to the date of said hearing. Failure
to give mailed notice, or any defects in the notice, shall not invalidate the
proceedings. At such hearing the Council shall receive any written and oral
statements, and hear any petitioners for or against the proposed improvement. A
period of sixty (60) days shall elapse after the public hearing before any
further action shall be taken by the Council on the proposed improvement. If
within such sixty-day (60-day) period, a petition against such improvement be
filed with the Council, signed by a majority of the owners proposed to be
assessed for the improvement, or, when the improvement has been petitioned for,
signed by a number of the owners proposed to be assessed for such improvement
at least equal to the number of those who petitioned for the improvement, the
Council shall not make such improvement at the expense of the property
benefited, unless, in the meantime, there be filed with the Council a petition
asking that the improvement be made, signed by property owners proposed to be
assessed for such improvement at least equal in number to those who signed the
petition against the improvement; in which event the Council may disregard the
petition against the improvement. Any person whose name appears on a petition
to the Council for a local improvement, or on a petition to the Council against
a local improvement, may withdraw their name by a statement in writing filed
with the Council before such petition is presented to the Council. (Amended
2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 2. Regardless of the provisions in Subdivision 1, when less than
100 percent (100%) of the estimated cost of a proposed local improvement is to
be paid for by special assessment, within the sixty-day (60-day) period after a
public hearing has been held on the proposed improvement, a petition may be
filed with the Council, signed by a majority of the number of electors who
voted for mayor in the last regular municipal election, protesting against
either the improvement, or the assessment formula, or both. In this event, the
Council shall not proceed with the improvement, as proposed. (Amended 2023 Ord.
1009.)
   Subdivision 3. When a proposed improvement is allowed under the foregoing
subdivisions the Council may proceed at anytime between sixty (60) days and one
(1) year after the public hearing on the improvement. However, no contract
shall be let in the event that the current proposed contract exceeds the
estimated cost by more than ten percent (10%). (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Subdivision 4. When a proposed improvement is disallowed under the foregoing
subdivisions, the Council shall not vote on the same improvement within a
period of one (1) year after the public hearing on said improvement. (Amended
2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 8.05. Assessments for Services. The Council may provide by ordinance
that the cost of City services to streets, sidewalks, or other public or
private property may be assessed against property benefited and may be
collected in the same manner as special assessments. Such costs shall not be
deemed to be “special assessments” for the purposes set forth in Section 8.03
of this .
   Section 8.06. Certification of Administrative Offense Penalties. Authority
is granted to the City to certify unpaid property-based administrative offense
penalties by certification to property taxes. Collection of administrative
offense penalties shall proceed only in accordance with an ordinance adopted by
the Council that must require at least the following:
   •   The City must give notice to the property owner listed on the official
tax records at least thirty (30) days prior to imposing the certification.
   •   The City must attempt to obtain voluntary payment of the fees and
penalties and allow the property owner the opportunity to request certification
to the property taxes as a method of payment. The City must provide an
opportunity for a hearing regarding the certification before either the Council
or a neutral third party as specified in City Code.
Administrative offense penalties and charges must be directly related to the
property being assessed according to City Code and as published in the fee
schedule. Certifications under this ordinance shall be imposed pursuant to
Minnesota State Statutes including sections 366.011, 366.012, 415.01, and
429.101, as amended and as specified in City Code. (Amended 2008 Ord. 810;
Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
 9:    EMINENT DOMAIN
   Section 9.01. Acquisition of Property. The City may acquire by purchase,
gift, condemnation, or otherwise, any real property, either within or without
its boundaries that may be needed by the City for any public purpose. In
acquiring property by exercising the power of eminent domain, the City shall
proceed according to Minnesota Statutes, chapter 117, as amended, or other
applicable items.(Amended 2004 Ord. 749; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
CHAPTER 10:    FRANCHISES
   Section 10.01. Except as otherwise provided by state law, no person, firm or
corporation shall place or maintain any permanent or semi-permanent fixtures
in, over, upon or under any street or public place for the purpose of operating
a public utility, or for any other purpose, without a franchise therefor from
the City. A franchise shall be granted only by ordinance, which shall not be an
emergency ordinance. No exclusive franchise shall be granted unless the
proposed ordinance is submitted to the voters of the City following a public
hearing and approved by at least a majority of those voting thereon. Every
ordinance granting a franchise shall contain all the terms and conditions of
the franchise. The grantee shall bear the costs of publication of the franchise
ordinance and shall make a sufficient deposit with the City Administrator to
guarantee publication before the ordinance is passed.
   Section 10.02. Term. No perpetual franchise or privilege shall be created,
nor shall any exclusive franchise or privilege be granted for a period of more
than twenty-five (25) years. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 10.03. Public Hearing. Before any franchise ordinance is adopted or
any rates, fares, or prices to be charged by a public utility are fixed by the
Council, the Council shall hold a public hearing on the matter. Notice of such
hearing shall be published at least once in the City newsletter and in the
official newspaper not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the
hearing. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 10.04. Power of Regulation Reserved. Subject to any applicable state
law, the Council may by ordinance reasonably regulate and control the exercise
of any franchise, including the maximum rates, fares, or prices to be charged
by the grantee. No franchise value shall be included in the valuation of the
grantee’s property in regulating utility rates, fares, or prices under any
applicable state or municipal law, or regulation, or in proceedings for
municipal acquisition of the grantee’s property by purchase or eminent domain.
   Section 10.05. Renewals or Extensions. Every extension, renewal, or
modification of any existing franchise, or of any franchise granted thereafter,
shall be subject to the same limitations and shall be granted in the same
manner as a new franchise.
CHAPTER 11:    PUBLIC OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION OF UTILITIES
   Section 11.01. Acquisition and Operation of Utilities. The City may own and
operate any gas, water, heat, power, light, telephone or other public utility
for supplying its own needs for utility service, or for supplying utility
service to private consumers or both. It may construct all facilities
reasonably needed for that purpose, and may acquire any existing utility
properties so needed; but such action may only be taken by ordinance, which
shall not be an emergency ordinance. The operation of all public utilities
owned by the City shall be under the supervision of the Council. (Amended 2023
Ord. 1009.)
   Section 11.02. Rates and Finances. The Council may by ordinance fix rates,
fares and prices for municipal utilities, but such rates, fares and prices
shall be just and reasonable. The Council shall endeavor to make each municipal
utility financially self-sustaining. Before any rates, fares or prices for
municipal utilities shall be fixed by the Council, the Council shall hold a
public hearing on the matter in accordance with Section
11.06  of this chapter. The Council shall prescribe the time and the manner in
which payments for all such utility services shall be made, and may make such
other regulations as may be necessary, and the penalties for violations of such
regulations.
   Section 11.03. Purchase in Bulk. The Council may in lieu of providing for
the local production of gas, electric, water and other utilities, purchase the
same in bulk and resell them to local consumers at such rates as it may fix.
Before such rates are fixed by the Council, the Council shall hold a public
hearing on the matter in accordance with Section
11.06  of this chapter.
   Section 11.04. Lease of Plant. The Council may, if the public interest will
be served thereby, contract with any responsible person, co-partnership or
corporation for the operation of any utility owned by the City upon such
rentals and conditions as it may deem necessary; but such contract shall not be
an emergency ordinance. In no case shall such contract be for a longer term
than ten years. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 11.05. Public Utility, How Sold. No public utility owned by the City
shall be sold or otherwise disposed of by the City unless the full terms of the
proposition of said sale or other disposition thereof, together with the price
to be paid therefor, shall be embodied in an ordinance approved by a majority
of the registered voters voting thereon at a general or special election.
Before such ordinance is submitted to a vote, the Council shall hold a public
hearing on the matter in accordance with Section
11.06  of this chapter.
   Section 11.06. Notice of Public Hearings. Notice of public hearing required
by this chapter shall be published at least once in the official newspaper and
in the City newsletter at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing.
Additional notice of such public hearing may be given in such manner as the
Council may determine. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
CHAPTER 12:    MISCELLANEOUS AND TRANSITORY PROVISIONS
   Section 12.01. Official Publication. The Council shall annually designate a
legal newspaper of general circulation in the City as its official primary
newspaper, as well as an optional secondary newspaper, in which shall be
published ordinances, other matters required by law, and this Charter, to be so
published, and any other matters the Council may deem it in the public interest
to have published in this manner. (Amended 2007 Ord. 799; Amended 2023 Ord.
1009.)
   Section 12.02. Oath of Office. Every officer of the City shall, before
entering upon the duties of their office, take and subscribe an oath of office
in substantially the following form: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) to
support the Constitution of the United States and of this state and to
discharge faithfully the duties devolving upon me as (mayor, council member,
city administrator, etc.) of the City of Mounds View to the best of my judgment
and ability.” (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 12.03. City Officers not to be Interested in Contracts. Except as
otherwise permitted by state law, no officer of the City, who is authorized to
take part in any manner in any contract with the City, shall voluntarily have a
personal financial interest in such contract or personally benefit financially
therefrom.
   Section 12.04. Official Bonds. The city administrator, the city treasurer,
and such other officers or employees of the City may be provided for by
ordinance shall each, before entering upon the duties of their respective
office or employment, give a corporate surety bond to the City in such form and
in such amount as may be fixed by the Council as security for the faithful
performance of their official duties. This corporate surety bond may be in the
form of either individual or blanket bonds at the discretion of the Council.
They shall be approved by the Council, and approved as to form by the City
Attorney, and filed with the city administrator. The premiums on the bonds
shall be paid by the City. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 12.05. Sales of Real Property. No real property of the City shall be
disposed of except by ordinance. The proceeds of any sale of such property
shall be used as far as possible to retire any outstanding indebtedness
incurred by the City in the purchase, construction, or improvement of this or
other property used for the same public purpose. If there is no such
outstanding indebtedness, the Council may by resolution designate some other
public use for the proceeds.
   Section 12.06. Vacation of Streets. The Council may by ordinance vacate any
street or alley or other public grounds or part thereof within the City. Such
vacation may be made only after published notice in the official newspaper and
an opportunity for affected property owner and public to be heard, and upon
such further terms and by such procedure as the Council by ordinance may
prescribe. A notice of completion of such procedure shall be filed in
accordance with law.
   Section 12.07. Statutes not Affected by Charter. All general laws and
statutes of the state applicable to all cities operating under home rule
charters, or applicable to cities of the same class as the City of Mounds View
operating under home rule charters, and not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Charter, shall apply to the City, and shall be construed as supplementary
to the provisions of this Charter. (Amended 2010 Ord. 841; Amended 2023 Ord.
1009.)
   Section 12.08. City to Succeed to Rights and Obligations of Former Charter.
The City shall succeed to all the property, rights, and privileges, and shall
be subject to all legal obligations of the City under the former Charter.
   Section 12.09. Existing Ordinances and Resolutions Continued. All
ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the municipality in force when this
Charter takes effect, and not inconsistent with the provisions thereof, are
hereby continued in lull force and effect until amended or repealed.
   Section 12.10. Officers to Continue for Present Terms. All elective and
appointive officers of the City holding office on the effective date of this
Charter shall continue in office for the terms to which they were elected or
appointed, and until their successors shall have been elected or appointed and
have qualified.
   Section 12.11. Pending Condemnations and Assessments. Any condemnation or
assessment proceeding in progress when this Charter takes effect shall be
continued and completed under the laws under which such proceeding was begun.
All assessments made by the municipality prior to the time when this Charter
takes effect shall be collected, and the lien thereon enforced in the same
manner as if this Charter had not been adopted.
   Section 12.12. Ordinances to Make Charter Effective. The Council shall by
ordinance, resolution, or other appropriate action make such regulations as may
be necessary to carry out and make effective the provisions of this Charter.
   Section 12.13. A newsletter shall be published by the City at regular
intervals at least four (4) times each year. The City may use several delivery
methods if necessary to deliver the newsletter to at least each non-commercial
postal delivery address within the city unless the resident has requested not
to receive the city newsletter. If practicable, a copy of the newsletter shall
be posted on the city website. (Amended 2008 Ord. 800; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 12.14. Fines and Civil Penalties. The Council may provide by
ordinance that a violation of a City ordinance is either a misdemeanor or a
petty misdemeanor, punishable in accordance with state law. The Council shall
establish by ordinance a procedure for imposing a civil penalty known as an
administrative offense as defined in City Code. (Amended 2008 Ord. 810; Amended
2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 12.15. This Charter becomes effective January 1, 1980, or thirty
(30) days after adoption, whichever conies later. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 12.16. Severability. This Charter is subject to federal and state
laws. If any provision of this Charter is held to be invalid or otherwise
contrary to law, by any court of competent jurisdiction, that provision shall
be voided. All other provisions of this Charter shall continue in full force
and effect. If the application of the Charter or any provisions to any person
or circumstance is held to be invalid, the application of the Charter and its
provisions to other persons or circumstance shall not be impacted by such a
holding. (Amended 2023 Ord. 1008; Amended 2023 Ord. 1009.)
   Section 12.17. Unless first approved by a majority of voters in a state
general election, the City shall not replace the competitive market in solid
waste collection with a system in which solid waste services are provided by
government-chosen collectors or in government-designed districts. The adoption
of this Charter amendment shall supersede any ordinances, ordinance amendments,
or Charter amendments related to solid waste adopted by the City Council after
January 1, 2023. (Approved at election 11-5-2024)
APPENDIX A: TIMELINE FOR A BALLOT ISSUE RELATED
   TO INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM OR RECALL
   Revision Date 7/21/2007
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2853.png]
 
APPENDIX B: INITIATIVE PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM
   Revision Date 7/12/2007
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2855.png]
APPENDIX C: REFERENDUM PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM
   Revision Date 7/12/2007
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2857.png]
APPENDIX D: ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE WITH ALLOWANCE
   FOR CITIZEN REFERENDUM - TIMELINE
   Revision Date 7/12/2007
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2859.png]
 
APPENDIX E: RECALL PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM
   Revision Date 7/12/2007
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2641.gif]
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.001   Title of code; purpose; scope
   
10.002   Rules of interpretation
   
10.003   Application to future ordinances
   
10.004   Captions
   
10.005   Definitions
   
10.006   Severability
   
10.007   Reference to other sections
   
10.008   Reference to offices
   
10.009   Errors and omissions
   
10.010   Official time
   
10.011   Reasonable time
   
10.012   Ordinances repealed
   
10.013   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.014   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.015   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.016   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.017   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.018   Copies of code; acceptance
   
10.019   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.020   Enforcement; court proceedings
   
10.021   Alterations
   
10.022   Conflicts
 
   
10.998   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.999   General penalty and enforcement
§ 10.001 TITLE OF CODE; PURPOSE; SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose and scope of code. The codification of the ordinances of the
municipality contained in this instrument have been made pursuant to state
statutes. This code is a new enactment and is intended to be a complete and
current ordinance code and not only a compilation of existing ordinances. After
adoption, an official copy of the code shall be maintained at all times by the
City Administrator and sufficient additional copies shall also be available at
the Municipal Hall either for inspection by the public or for distribution at a
reasonable charge.
(Prior Code, § 101.01)
   (B)   Title. Upon the adoption by the Municipal Council, this municipal code
is hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official municipal
code of Mounds View. This municipal code of ordinances shall be known and cited
as the “Mounds View Municipal Code” and is hereby published by authority of the
Council and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of
the city. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter
and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well
as to the section itself, when reference is made to this city code by title in
any legal documents.
(Prior Code, § 101.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 10.002 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of the city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.003 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.004 CAPTIONS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of the municipal code are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed
or taken to be titles of the sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify
or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of the section, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted.
(Prior Code, § 103.03)
§ 10.005 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Rules of construction. When interpreting this code, the
following rules of construction shall be applied, except where the application
of any rule of construction would result in an interpretation clearly contrary
to the plain intent of a provision or of any section or chapter in which a
given provision appears. The rules are as follows.
         (a)   Common usage. All words and phrases used in this code shall be
interpreted and understood in accordance with common and acceptable usage, but
any technical words and phrases, or such others which have acquired a specific
or peculiar meaning, shall be interpreted and understood in accordance with the
technical, specific or peculiar meaning.
         (b)   Gender; singular and plural. Every word in this code expressing
the masculine gender shall extend to and be applied to females as well as
males, and every word expressing the plural number shall extend to and be
applied to one person or thing as well as several persons or things.
         (c)   Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include
the future when applicable, and the use of any verb in the future tense shall
include the present when applicable.
      (2)   Application of state statutes.
         (a)   Statutory rules of construction. In addition to the rules of
construction contained in division (A)(1) above, the rules and canons of
construction, presumptions and miscellaneous provisions pertaining to
construction contained in M.S. Ch. 645, as it may be amended from time to time,
governing statutory construction are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part hereof as if fully set forth herein. All references contained in these
statutory provisions to laws and statutes shall be construed to apply and refer
to the provisions of this code and all references to the legislature shall be
construed to apply to the Municipal Council or appropriate governing body.
         (b)   Final authority. If, upon application of the rules and
interpretive guides contained in this section, further question remains, all
words in this code shall have the same meanings as ascribed to them in the
state statutes.
         (c)   Changes for clarification. The word “ordinance” contained in the
ordinances of the city has been changed in the content of this municipal code
to “title”, “chapter”, “section” and/or “division” or words of like import for
organizational and clarification purposes only. The change to the city’s
ordinances is not meant to amend passage and effective dates of the original
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 103.01)
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred,
either expressly or by implication.
      CITY. The City of Mounds View, Minnesota. The term CITY, when used in
this code, may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
      CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNCIL. The Mounds View Municipal Council.
      COUNTY. Ramsey County, Minnesota.
      EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
City of Mounds View”.
      FEE. A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
      FINANCE DIRECTOR/TREASURER. The Municipal Treasurer.
      HERETOFORE and HEREAFTER. Whenever the word HERETOFORE occurs in any
section of the code, it shall be construed to mean any time previous to the day
when the code became effective, or if contained in a provision adopted after
that date, it shall be construed to mean the date when the provision took
effect and, whenever the word HEREAFTER occurs, it shall be construed to mean
the time after the provision containing the word takes effect.
      LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MINNESOTA STATUTES. All of the statutory law of the state embodied in the
latest official publication of the state statutes including all session laws
and amendments or additions thereto.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MUNICIPALITY. The City of Mounds View.
      NUISANCE. Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons
or any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare
of inhabitants of the city or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of the building or land whether alone or with
others.
      OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission
of any act required by the provisions of this code.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
      OWNER. As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part
of the building or land.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver.
         (b)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall
mean the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the
officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of the building or land, whether alone or with
others.
      WHOLESALER or WHOLESALE DEALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or
things to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Prior Code, § 103.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 10.006 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
this municipal code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof.
   (B)   The Municipal Council hereby declares that it would have passed each
section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective
of the fact that any one or more sections, divisions, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective.
(Prior Code, § 102.04)
§ 10.007 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.008 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.009 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.010 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.011 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be
excluded.
§ 10.012 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this
municipal code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this
municipal code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; ordinances granting special rights to persons or corporations;
contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract or
the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or
vacating streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the city; and all special
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 102.01)
§ 10.013 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication. No
ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways, or
relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall be
repealed by virtue of the adoption of this municipal code or by virtue of §
10.012 of this chapter, excepting as the municipal code may contain provisions
for such matters, in which case, this municipal code shall be considered as
amending the ordinance or ordinances in respect to the provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 102.02)
§ 10.014 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.015 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.016 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to this indication as may appear in the text of the
proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the
ordinance.
§ 10.017 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.018 COPIES OF CODE; ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a
reasonable charge.
   (B)   The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of the state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent
effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.012 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 101.03)
§ 10.019 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 471.62, as it may be amended from time to time,
various codes, statutes and new ordinances are adopted by reference in this
code.
   (B)   In all cases where codes, statutes and ordinances have been adopted by
reference, two copies thereof shall be marked as official copies and maintained
on file with the Municipal City Administrator. These copies are available for
public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 101.06) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 943, passed 05-29-
2018)
§ 10.020 ENFORCEMENT; COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Offenses against former ordinances. No new ordinance shall be
construed or held to repeal a former ordinance whether the former ordinance is
expressly repealed or not, as to any offense committed against the former
ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising under the former ordinance, or
in any way whatever to affect any such offense or act so committed or so done,
or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred or any right accrued or
claim arising before the new ordinance takes effect, save only that the
proceedings thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in force at the time of
the proceeding, so far as practicable, if any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
may be mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, the provision may be, by
consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new
ordinance takes effect.
   (B)   Application of provisions. This section shall extend to all repeals,
either by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance
making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Effect of provisions. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this municipal code.
(Prior Code, § 102.03)
§ 10.021 ALTERATIONS.
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement
pages may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized
by the Municipal Council. The City Administrator shall see that the replacement
pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of
the City Administrator. Any person having in his or her custody a copy of the
city code shall make every effort to maintain the code current as to the most
recent ordinances passed. Each person shall see to the immediate insertion of
new or replacement pages when such are delivered to them or made available to
them through the office of the City Administrator. The code books, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the City
Administrator when directed so to do by order of the Municipal Council.
(Prior Code, § 101.05) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 10.022 CONFLICTS.
   In all cases where various provisions or sections of this code, whether
fully set forth herein or adopted by reference, conflict or where, in any case,
there arises a question concerning the application of a provision or section of
the code, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Conflict between code provisions. If the provisions of different
sections or chapters of the code conflict with or contravene each other, the
provisions of each section and each chapter shall prevail as to all matters
growing out of the subject matter of the chapter.
   (B)   Conflict within chapter. If conflicting provisions are found in
different sections of the same chapter, the provisions of the section which is
last in numerical order shall prevail unless the construction is inconsistent
with the meaning of the chapter.
   (C)   Provision adopted by reference in conflict with code. If one of the
conflicting provisions has been adopted by reference and the other provision
fully set forth in this code, the provision or section fully set forth in this
code shall control.
   (D)   Provisions adopted by reference in conflict with each other. If a
provision of some code or material adopted by reference in this code conflicts
with a provision of some other code or material adopted by reference, the
following rules shall govern.
      (1)   If either of the sources adopted by reference is statutory, the
statutory provision shall control.
      (2)   If both of the sources adopted by reference are non-statutory, the
provision drawn from the code or material most closely related to the chapter
of this code which is sought to be applied shall control.
   (E)   Conflict with Charter. If a provision or section of this code
conflicts with a provision or section of the Home Rule Charter, the Home Rule
Charter shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 102.05)
§ 10.998 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.020(A) of this chapter, the City Council is authorized to create by
resolution, adopted by a majority of the members of the Council, supplemental
administrative penalties. The resolution may not proscribe administrative
penalties for traffic offenses designated by M.S. § 169.999, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Clerk or other person
giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, in a written
notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the person who is
alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may request the
payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation directly to the
City Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation. In the sole
discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the time
for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not requested by
the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the administrative
penalty, the person giving notice may request in the notice to the alleged
violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the situation resulting in the
alleged violation and may provide that if the alleged violator corrects the
situation resulting in the alleged violation within the time specified in the
notice, that the payment of the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.999 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   General penalty.
      (1)   Misdemeanors. Unless another penalty is expressly provided in this
code and except for the provisions of division (A)(2) below, any person
violating any provisions of this code or any rule or regulation adopted or
issued in pursuance thereof or any provision of any code adopted herein by
reference shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000
or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days or both.
      (2)   Petty misdemeanors. Any person convicted of a petty misdemeanor
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $300.
      (3)   Administrative offenses. Any person violating an administrative
rule shall be subject to the scheduled penalty established in the city’s fee
schedule.
      (4)   Separate violations. Unless otherwise provided, each act of
violation and every day upon which a violation occurs or continues constitutes
a separate offense.
      (5)   Failure of officers to perform duties. The failure of any officer
or employee of the municipality to perform any official duty imposed by this
code shall not subject the officer or employee to the penalty imposed for
violation of this code unless a penalty is specifically provided for the
conduct or omission.
      (6)   Non-peace officer citations or administrative offenses.
         (a)   Non-peace officer employees that are specifically authorized
herein may issue citations or administrative offenses as authorized pursuant to
the following sections, chapters and titles of this code:
Administrative offenses, §                      As set forth in §
130.002                                          130.002
Animals and animal control, §§
90.001—                                        Code Enforcement Officer
90.006
Bowling alleys, §§
111.045—                                       City Administrator
111.050
Building Code, §§
150.001—                                       Building Official
150.008
Building numbers, §§
150.020—                                       Code Enforcement Officer
150.022
Building permits and fees, §§                  Building Official, Electrical
150.050—                                       Inspector
150.054
Building relocation, §§
150.035—                                       Building Official
150.037
Electric franchise,                              City Administrator
TSO Table I
Floodplain zoning,                               Director of Public Works/Parks
Ch. 154                                          and Recreation, City Planner
Garbage and rubbish, §§
50.001—                                        City Administrator
50.006
Gas franchise,                                   City Administrator
TSO Table I
Gasoline stations, §§
112.001—                                       City Administrator
112.006
Intoxicating liquor, §§
110.015—                                       City Administrator
110.030
Land subdivisions,                               City Planner
Ch. 158
Mobile food vehicles; vendors,                   Code Enforcement Officer, City
Ch. 120                                          Administrator
                                                 Building Official, Public
Municipal sanitary sewer system,                 Works Director/Parks and
Ch. 52                                           Recreation, Finance Director/
                                                 Treasurer
                                                 Building Official, Public
Municipal water system,                          Works Director/Parks and
Ch. 51                                           Recreation, Finance Director/
                                                 Treasurer
New and used cars dealers, §§
112.020—                                       City Administrator
112.025
Non-intoxicating liquor, §§
110.045—                                       City Administrator
110.055
Parking regulations, §§
71.001—                                        Code Enforcement Officer
71.009
Peddling, solicitors, transient merchants, §§  Code Enforcement Officer, City
113.001 -                                        Administrator
113.014
Rides, carnivals and circuses, §§
111.065—                                       City Administrator
111.071
Signs and billboards,                            City Planner
Ch. 161
Streets openings, §§
152.001—                                       Driveways: Building Official
152.004
Surface water drainage management and
development control,                             City Engineer
Ch. 155
Swimming pools,                                  Building Official
Ch. 162
Tree disease control, §§                       Director of Parks, Recreation
153.001—                                       and Forestry
153.009
Wetland zoning regulations,                      Director of Public Works/Parks
Ch. 159                                          and Recreation, City Planner
Zoning regulations,                              City Planner
Ch. 160
 
         (b)   In the event that non-peace officer employee position is vacant,
the City Administrator or a designee is authorized to issue citations as
provided in this division (A).
(Prior Code, § 104.01)
   (B)   Application of provisions.
      (1)   The penalty provided in this section shall be applicable to every
section of this municipal code the same as though it were a part of each and
every separate section.
      (2)   The penalties provided by this section or any section of this code
apply to the amendment of any section of this code or any code adopted herein
by reference to which the penalty relates, whether or not the penalty is re-
enacted in the amendatory provision, unless otherwise provided in the
amendment.
      (3)   Reference to any sections of this code shall be understood also to
refer to and include the penalty section relating thereto, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
      (4)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is
created by different clauses or sections of this municipal code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided
that, the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
      (5)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this municipal code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for the breach, the
provisions of this section shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 104.02) (Ord. 434, passed 06-27-1988; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010; Ord. 943, passed 05-29-2018; Ord. 1026, passed 3-10-2025)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
31.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
32.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
      
36.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
37.   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
      38.   DISCRIMINATORY COVENANTS
 
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
30.001   Official newspaper
§ 30.001 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   At its first meeting each year, the Council shall designate the official
newspaper, which shall be the legal newspaper for the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 108.01)
CHAPTER 31: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
31.001   Composition of Council
   
31.002   Powers and duties
   
31.003   Compensation
   
31.004   Meetings
   
31.005   Ordinances and resolutions
   
31.006   Worker’s compensation coverage for elected officials
§ 31.001 COMPOSITION OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   Membership. The Council shall consist of the Mayor and four Council
members. Three members shall constitute a quorum, although a smaller number may
adjourn from time to time.
   (B)   Acting mayor. At its first meeting each year, the Council shall choose
an Acting Mayor from the Council members. The Acting Mayor shall perform the
duties of Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor from the
municipality or, in the case of vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a
successor has been elected or appointed and qualifies. In the case of vacancy
in the office of Mayor, the Council shall, by resolution adopted choose a Vice
Acting Mayor from Council members who shall perform the duties of Mayor during
the disability or absence of the Acting Mayor from the municipality or, in the
case of vacancy in the seat of the Council member serving as Acting Mayor,
until a successor has been elected or appointed and qualifies for the office of
Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 105.01) (Ord. 943, passed 05-29-2018; Ord. 1005, passed 9-25-
2023)
§ 31.002 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Meetings; written instruments. The Council may preserve order at its
meetings and shall be the judge of the election and qualification of its
members. The Council shall have power to regulate its own procedure. Every
current contract, conveyance, license or other written instrument shall be
executed on behalf of the municipality by the Mayor and City Administrator,
with the corporate seal affixed and only pursuant to authority from the
Council.
   (B)   Appointment of officers, employees and agents.
      (1)   The Council may appoint such officers, employees and agents for the
municipality as may be deemed necessary for the proper management and operation
of municipal affairs.
      (2)   The Council may prescribe the duties and fix the compensation of
all officers, both appointive and elective, employees and agents, when not
otherwise prescribed by law.
      (3)   The Council may, except as otherwise provided, remove any
appointive officer or employee when, in its judgment, the public welfare will
be promoted by the removal.
      (4)   The power of removal is subject to veterans’ preference and civil
service laws that may be applicable.
(Prior Code, § 105.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 31.003 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Mayor’s compensation. The salary of the Mayor is fixed at $8,250 per
year.
   (B)   Council members’ salaries. The salary of the Council members is fixed
at $7,452 per year.
   (C)   Method of payment. The compensation shall be paid monthly.
(Prior Code, § 105.03) (Ord. 527, passed 07-26-1993; Ord. 705, passed 10-28-
2002; Ord. 922, passed 08-08-2016; Ord. 997, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 31.004 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the
second and fourth Mondays of each month at a time set by Council resolution, at
the City Hall. If any such Monday is a legal holiday or Christmas or New Year’s
Eve, the meeting will be cancelled or held on another date and time as
established by Council action.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or by
any two members of the Council by a written notice filed with the City
Administrator, who shall notify members of the time and place of meeting at
least 24 hours before the meeting.
   (C)   Agenda meetings. Agenda meetings of the Council may be held on the
first and third Mondays of each month at a time set by Council resolution at
the City Hall. The purpose of the meeting(s) is to discuss and prepare the
agenda for the regular meeting following. An agenda meeting may be called to
order, and the regular business of the Council can be conducted if the Mayor
and three Council members are present at the meeting.
   (D)   Rules of order.
      (1)   Presiding officer. The Mayor or, in the Mayor’s absence, the Acting
Mayor shall preside at Council meetings, preserve order and decorum and decide
questions of order. The Mayor’s duties under this division (D) shall be in
addition to the duties, rights and privileges as a Council member.
      (2)   Special rules. The following special rules shall be applied.
         (a)   A member may be excused from voting in the case of conflict of
interest on a matter before the Council.
         (b)   A motion before the Council shall be reduced to writing by the
City Administrator at the request of any Council member.
         (c)   Such other special rules may be adopted and included in this
division (D)(2) as the Council, from time to time, deems necessary.
      (3)   General rules. In all other matters of parliamentary procedure, the
Council shall be governed by the latest printed edition of Robert’s Rules of
Order.
      (4)   Suspension of rules. The operation and effect of any rule
established or followed pursuant to this section may be suspended upon the
unanimous vote of the Council.
   (E)   Attendance at council meetings. The attendance at Council meetings of
each member of the Council is deemed to be one of the most important duties
imposed by law upon them. Their presence to participate in the hearings,
deliberations and decisions of the Council is essential to the proper discharge
of their official duties. Recognizing that it is not always possible for each
member of the Council to be present at all meetings, and that by reason of
business demands, state of health, personal problems, vacations and other
matters occasional absences are excusable, the Council may compel the
attendance of members and punish non-attendance by resolution adopted by a
majority. A vacancy in the Council, whether it be in the office of Mayor or
Council member, shall be deemed to exist by reason of the failure of any member
of the Council, without good cause, to attend Council meetings for a period of
three consecutive months.
   (F)   Order of business. At the hour appointed for the meeting, the members
shall be called to order by the Mayor or, in the Mayor’s absence, by the Acting
Mayor. The City Administrator shall call the roll and note the absentees. If a
quorum is present, the Council shall then proceed with its business in the
order established by resolution of the Council.
   (G)   Minutes.
      (1)   Approval of minutes. The City Administrator shall provide a printed
copy of the minutes of each meeting to each Council member. Amendments or
corrections proposed by any member of the Council shall be made by the City
Administrator, but no amendments to which objection is raised by any Council
member shall be made without the approval of a majority of the Council.
      (2)   Contents of minutes. The City Administrator shall record all
material matters considered by the Council in the minutes. Ordinances,
resolutions, communications and claims considered by the Council need not be
recorded in full in the minutes if they appear in other permanent records of
the City Administrator and can be accurately identified from the description
given in the minutes. The Council may, in its discretion, direct that any one
of the above be fully set out in the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 105.04) (Ord. 563, passed 06-12-1995; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010; Ord. 943, passed 05-29-2018)
§ 31.005 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   Preparation and introduction. All legislation of the municipality
shall be by ordinance. Ordinances, resolutions and other matters requiring
Council action shall be prepared at the direction of the Council; provided,
however, that, the City Administrator or Attorney may present ordinances,
resolutions and other matters for consideration.
   (B)   Enactment of ordinances and amendments. Every ordinance and amendment
of an ordinance shall be enacted by a majority vote of all of the members of
the Council, except where a larger number is required by law. It shall be
signed by the Mayor or, in the Mayor’s absence, by the Acting Mayor, attested
by the City Administrator and published once in the legal newspaper. Proof of
the publication shall be attached to and filed with the ordinance book within
30 days after its publication. All ordinances shall be suitably entitled to
clearly express its subject.
   (C)   Emergency ordinances. An emergency ordinance is an ordinance necessary
for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, morals, safety or
welfare in which ordinance the emergency is defined and declared in a preamble
thereto. An emergency ordinance must be approved by a majority of available
members of the City Council. An emergency ordinance must be in writing but may
be enacted without previous filing or voting and may be adopted finally at the
meeting at which it is first introduced and voted upon by the Council. An
emergency ordinance shall remain in effect for the duration of the emergency.
No prosecution shall be based upon the provisions of an emergency ordinance
until 24 hours after the ordinance has been adopted, filed with the City
Administrator and has either been posted in three conspicuous places in the
city or published as provided for by the Home Rule Charter or the person
charged with violation thereof had actual notice of the ordinance prior to the
act or omission resulting in the prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 105.05) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 31.006 WORKER’S COMPENSATION COVERAGE FOR ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 176.011, subd. 9, clause 6, as it may be amended from
time to time, the elected officials of the city and those municipal officers
appointed for a regular term of office are hereby included in the coverage of
the state’s Worker’s Compensation Act, being M.S. §§ 176.001 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 105.06) (Ord. 459, passed 02-27-1989)
CHAPTER 32: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Conflict of interest
   
32.002   Indemnification and legal defense of officers and employees
   
32.003   Personnel policies
Specific Officials and Employees
   
32.015   City Administrator
   
32.016   Municipal Finance Director
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Procedures. Any officer, employee or agent appointed by the Council
pursuant to §
31.002 of this code of ordinances, and any member of a committee or commission
who has been appointed by the Council or Mayor who, in the discharge of their
duties, would be required to take an action or make a decision which in any way
would affect their financial interests or those of a business with which they
are associated shall take the following actions:
      (1)   Disclosures. Disclose to the Council or to the chairperson and
other members of the commission of which that person is a member that person’s
participation in the matter prior to the time the matter is considered by the
Council, committee or commission;
      (2)   Removal from influence. Remove themselves in a manner prescribed by
the Council or the chairperson of the committee or commission of which that
person is a member, from any consideration or influence over the action and
decision in question; and
      (3)   Representation of interested party. Not appear before the Council
or the committee or commission of which that person is a member on their own
behalf or as a representative for any other person, firm, corporation,
partnership or association operated either for profit or non-profit.
   (B)   Removal from office. Any officer, employee, agent or member of a
committee or commission who intentionally violates the provisions of this
section can be removed as an officer, employee, agent or member of a committee
or commission by majority action of the entire City Council after a hearing
held by the Council pursuant to written charges and at least ten days’ personal
notice, or in the event the individual cannot be served after due diligence, by
ten days’ published notice or both.
(Prior Code, § 106.01)
§ 32.002 INDEMNIFICATION AND LEGAL DEFENSE OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   In the lawful and good faith performance of the function and duties of their
respective offices and employment and enforcement of the code of the
municipality and all the laws, ordinances and resolutions and regulations of
the municipality as a part thereof, the officers and employees of the
municipality act as agents and representatives and police officers of the
municipality and are entitled to all rights, privileges and immunities to their
persons and properties as are accorded by the laws of the state. No officer or
employee is or shall be held personally liable by any person for any claim or
loss arising from or out of the lawful and good faith performance of the duties
and functions of that office or employment. The municipality is authorized to
and shall defend the officer or employee against the same, providing legal
counsel as necessary to the defense and pay the losses and damages as may be
necessary to hold the officer or employee free of claim therefor.
(Prior Code, § 106.02)
§ 32.003 PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The Council shall establish a uniform and equitable system of personnel
administration by resolution for employees of the municipality, which may be
revised as necessary by amendments to the personnel policy resolution.
(Prior Code, § 301.01) (Ord. 647, passed 01-10-2000)
SPECIFIC OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 32.015 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Duties. The duties of the City Administrator of the municipality may
include the duties of the clerk in a statutory city. The City Administrator
shall give the required notice of each regular and special election, record the
proceedings thereof, notify officials of their election or appointment to
office, certify to the County Auditor all appointments and the results of all
municipal elections.
      (1)   Records.
         (a)   The City Administrator shall keep a minute book, noting therein
all proceedings of the Council. Ordinances, resolutions and claims considered
by the Council need not be given in full in the minute book if they appear in
other permanent records of the City Administrator and can be accurately
identified from the description given in the minutes.
         (b)   The City Administrator shall keep an ordinance book, in which
shall be recorded, in their entirety, all ordinances passed by the Council.
         (c)   The City Administrator shall act as the clerk and bookkeeper of
the municipality, shall be the custodian of its seal and records, shall sign
its official papers, shall post and publish the notices, ordinances and
resolutions as may be required and shall perform other appropriate duties as
may be imposed upon the City Administrator by the Council.
         (d)   For certified copies and for filing and entering, when required,
papers not relating to municipal business, the City Administrator shall receive
the fees allowed by law to town clerks, but the Council may require the City
Administrator to pay such fees to the Municipal Treasury.
      (2)   Other duties. The City Administrator shall:
         (a)   Supervise the administration as provided by the Charter and
Council action;
         (b)   Prepare reports and summaries relating to contemplated municipal
projects and/or improvements and submit them with recommendations, as may be
required, to the Council for study and subsequent action;
         (c)   Prepare an annual fiscal budget and capital improvement plan for
submission to the Council. The City Administrator shall maintain financial
guidelines for the municipality within the scope of the approved budget and
capital program;
         (d)   Prepare the annual financial statement and such other statements
that are required by statute;
         (e)   Attend all Council meetings and provide input to the Council.
The City Administrator shall attend, at the City Administrator’s discretion or
by invitation, other committee and commission meetings;
         (f)   Supervise municipal employees, programs and activities unless
otherwise directed by the Council;
         (g)   Submit periodic reports to the Council on the financial
condition of the municipal accounts;
         (h)   Supervise the conduct of local elections in accordance with the
prescribed laws and regulations;
         (i)   Advise the Council in decisions affecting the employment or
removal of department heads and appointed officials;
         (j)   Work in cooperation with the Council’s appointed attorney;
         (k)   Prepare news releases and develop and discuss public relations
material with all concerned as required. The City Administrator shall maintain
good public relations with the general public;
         (l)   Consult, unless otherwise directed by the Council, with
appointed officials and with other public or private agencies as may be
required;
         (m)   Be fully informed regarding federal, state and county programs
which affect the municipality;
         (n)   Advise the Council on the terms and conditions of employee labor
contracts for presentation to the Council;
         (o)   Prepare an annual report to inform the public about the
financial condition of the city; and
         (p)   Perform all other duties required of the City Administrator by
the Council.
   (B)   Deputy City Administrator. With the consent of the Council, the City
Administrator may appoint a Deputy City Administrator for whose acts the City
Administrator is responsible and whom can be removed at pleasure. In case of
the City Administrator’s absence from the municipality or disability, the
Council may appoint a Deputy City Administrator, if there is none, to serve
during the absence or disability. The Deputy City Administrator may discharge
any of the duties of the City Administrator.
   (C)   Qualifications.
      (1)   The City Administrator shall have considerable knowledge of
municipal government operation, proper procedures, public relations, finances,
purchasing and all administrative requirements for proper municipal operation.
      (2)   All duties required by law to be performed by constables shall be
assumed by and conducted by the municipal police officers.
(Prior Code, § 106.03) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 943, passed 05-29-
2018)
§ 32.016 MUNICIPAL FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Receipt of funds; records. The Finance Director shall receive and
safely keep all money belonging to the municipality and shall promptly enter in
a book provided for the purpose an account of all moneys received and disbursed
by the Finance Director, showing the source and objects thereof with the date
of each transaction.
   (B)   Accounting and disbursements. The Finance Director shall pay out money
only upon the written order of the Mayor and City Administrator or such other
officers of independent boards or commissions as are authorized to issue orders
in the case of board or commission operations. The orders, when paid and
cancelled, shall be retained as vouchers. The accounts and vouchers shall be
exhibited to the Council upon its request.
   (C)   Delivery to successor. The Finance Director shall deliver to a
successor all books, papers and money belonging to the municipality.
   (D)   Report of balances. The Finance Director shall immediately after the
close of the calendar year make out and file with the City Administrator for
public inspection a report of the balances, receipts and disbursements by funds
for the year.
   (E)   Deputy Treasurer. The Finance Director may, with the consent of the
Council, appoint a Deputy Treasurer for whose acts the Finance Director shall
be responsible and who may be removed at pleasure. In case of the Finance
Director’s absence from the municipality or disability, the Council may appoint
a Deputy Treasurer, if there is none, to serve during the absence or
disability. The Deputy may discharge any of the duties of the Finance Director.
(Prior Code, § 106.04) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
33.001   Establishment
   
33.002   Membership; terms; oath; compensation
   
33.003   Removal from office; vacancies
   
33.004   Powers and duties
   
33.005   Conflict of interest
   
33.006   Organization; meetings
   
33.007   Employment of experts; expenditures
   
33.008   Annual report
   
33.009   Review of proposed plats
   
33.010   Zoning
   
33.011   Availability of city records
Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   
33.025   Establishment; membership
Parks and Recreation and Forestry Commission
   
33.060   Establishment; purpose
   
33.061   Membership; oath; compensation
   
33.062   Terms and vacancies
   
33.063   Conflicts of interest
   
33.064   Removal from office
   
33.065   Organization and meetings
   
33.066   Powers and duties
   
33.067   Budget and finances
   
33.068   Rules and regulations
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 33.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Planning and Zoning Commission for the city is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 401.01) (Ord. 536, passed 04-25-1994)
§ 33.002 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; OATH; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Membership; terms. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of
seven members from the resident population of the city, other than persons
elected to a public body, to be appointed by the City Council, and based on the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, from the applications
submitted. The appointees shall have three-year staggered terms; at least two
of these terms, but not more than three terms, shall expire each year on
December 31. Based upon the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the City Council shall appoint a Chairperson.
   (B)   Oath and taking of office. The appointees shall be duly sworn and take
office at the first regular meeting of the Commission in the month of January
each year. Both original and successive appointees shall hold their offices
until their successors are appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Compensation. All members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 401.02) (Ord. 536, passed 04-25-1994; Ord. 626, passed 02-08-
1999; Ord. 678, passed 02-12-2001; Ord. 706, passed 10-28-2002; Ord. 741,
passed 06-28-2004)
§ 33.003 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Removal from office.
      (1)   An appointed member of the Commission may be removed from office
for just cause and on written charges by at least four-fifths vote of the
entire City Council, but the member shall be entitled to a public hearing
before the vote is taken. It shall be the duty of the chairperson of the
Commission to notify the City Council promptly of any vacancies occurring in
membership.
      (2)   In addition, an appointed member may be removed by the City Council
for non-attendance at Planning and Zoning Commission meetings, as provided in
the by laws adopted by the Planning and Zoning Commission, or if a Commission
member does not attend 20 regularly scheduled meetings per year without the
consent of the Commission.
      (3)   The Mayor, with approval of the City Council, shall fill the
vacancies for the unexpired term of the original appointment.
   (B)   Termination of appointment. Any Commission member designing to
terminate his or her appointment to the Commission before the expiration of the
term shall give written notification to the Planning and Zoning Commission
chairperson of that intention.
(Prior Code, § 401.03) (Ord. 536, passed 04-25-1994; Ord. 629, passed 05-10-
1999)
§ 33.004 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall be the city planning agency, as authorized by the state
statutes and the City Charter. It shall have the duties and powers which are
assigned to it by this code.
(Prior Code, § 401.04) (Ord. 536, passed 04-25-1994)
§ 33.005 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No person shall be appointed with private or personal interest likely
to conflict with the general public interest.
   (B)   If any person appointed shall find that his or her private or personal
interests are involved in any matter coming before the Commission, he or she
shall disqualify himself or herself from taking part in action on the matter;
alternatively, he or she may be disqualified by a two-thirds’ majority vote of
the Commissioners in attendance.
(Prior Code, § 401.05) (Ord. 536, passed 04-25-1994)
§ 33.006 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS.
   (A)   Officers. At the first regular meeting in January, the Commission
shall elect a vice chairperson from among its appointed members for a term of
one year. The Commission may create and fill such other offices from its
members, as it may determine, to transact Commission business.
   (B)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings shall be held for the purposes of
convening public hearings and conducting business which requires a vote of the
Planning and Zoning Commission. The Commission shall hold at least one regular
meeting each month on a day and at a time and a place which the Commission
shall fix by resolution.
   (C)   Special meetings. Special meetings can be proposed during any regular
meeting by any Commission member or at the request of the Director of Community
Development, yet must be approved by a majority vote of the Commission.
Emergency special meetings may be called via written notice to the Director of
Community Development by the Chairperson or two Commission members, or by the
Director of Community Development. The Director of Community Development shall
post and mail a notice of any special meeting in accordance with state
statutes.
   (D)   Quorum. A majority of the appointed voting Commission members shall
constitute a quorum.
   (E)   Voting privileges. Each of the appointed members shall have equal
voting privileges.
   (F)   Bylaws. The Commission shall adopt bylaws for its governance and for
the transaction of its business. The bylaws shall be reviewed on an annual
basis at the first regular meeting in February.
   (G)   Records. A recording secretary, who may be recommended by the Planning
and Zoning Commission for appointment, shall keep a record of attendance at
Commission meetings and a record of resolutions, votes and abstentions on each
question requiring a vote. The record of the Commission shall be a public
record.
(Prior Code, § 401.06) (Ord. 536, passed 04-25-1994; Ord. 629, passed 05-10-
1999; Ord. 933, passed 05-08-2017)
§ 33.007 EMPLOYMENT OF EXPERTS; EXPENDITURES.
   The Commission may request from the City Council the employment of the
staff, technicians and experts as may be deemed proper and may request other
funds as may be necessary and proper for the conduct of its affairs.
(Prior Code, § 401.07) (Ord. 536, passed 04-25-1994)
§ 33.008 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The City Council may request an annual report from the Planning and Zoning
Commission of its works during the preceding year.
(Prior Code, § 401.08) (Ord. 536, passed 04-25-1994)
§ 33.009 REVIEW OF PROPOSED PLATS.
   (A)   Before the preliminary approval is given to any proposed platting or
property in the municipality, the preliminary plat shall be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Commission for study and recommendation along with written
reports and recommendations on the plat from the Director of Public Works/Parks
and Recreation and City Attorney.
   (B)   The recommendations on and approval of plats by the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall be in accordance with
Ch. 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 401.10) (Ord. 536, passed 04-25-1994)
§ 33.010 ZONING.
   (A)   Zoning Plan. The Commission, upon its own motion, may, and upon
instruction by the Council shall, prepare a revised Zoning Plan for the
Municipality. Before recommending the plan to the Council, the Commission shall
hold at least one public hearing thereon after a published notice of the
hearing appears in the legal newspaper at least ten days prior to the hearing.
The same procedure shall apply for the preparation of an overall street plan or
acquisition of lands for other public purposes.
   (B)   Rezoning of property. See §§
160.450 through
160.452 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 401.11) (Ord. 536, passed 04-25-1994)
§ 33.011 AVAILABILITY OF CITY RECORDS.
   Upon the request of the Planning and Zoning Commission, the City
Administrator or a designee shall furnish, within a reasonable time, the
records or information as may be required for the work of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 401.12) (Ord. 536, passed 04-25-1994; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS
§ 33.025 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   A Board of Adjustments and Appeals, consisting of all appointment
members of the Planning and Zoning Commission, is hereby established.
   (B)   The Board shall function under and be governed by the provisions of §§
160.465 through
160.470 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 402.01)
PARKS AND RECREATION AND
FORESTRY COMMISSION
§ 33.060 ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Parks and Recreation and Forestry
Commission for the purpose of advising the Council on the operation of public
recreation, parks and playgrounds, pursuant to the authority of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation and Forestry Commission is referred to herein
as “the Commission”.
(Prior Code, § 405.01) (Ord. 714, passed 05-12-2003)
§ 33.061 MEMBERSHIP; OATH; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Appointment of members.
      (1)   The Commission shall consist of seven members appointed by the City
Council and based on the recommendation of the Parks and Recreation Commission,
from the applications submitted.
      (2)   Based upon the recommendation of the Parks and Recreation
Commission, the City Council shall appoint a Chairperson.
   (B)   Oath of office. Every appointed member shall, before entering upon the
discharge of his or her duties, take an oath that he or she will faithfully
discharge the duties of his or her office.
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 405.02) (Ord. 627, passed 02-08-1999; Ord. 707, passed 10-28-
2002; Ord. 714, passed 05-12-2003; Ord. 741, passed 06-28-2004; Ord. 877,
passed 02-07-2013; Ord. 929, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 33.062 TERMS AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   Terms. Members of the Commission shall serve three-year staggered
terms, with terms expiring December 31 of each year. In order to establish
appropriate staggering of terms for the commission members, appointments to a
term of less than three years are permissible. Both original and successive
appointees shall hold their offices until their successors are appointed and
qualified.
   (B)   Vacancies. Vacancies during the term shall be filled by the Mayor with
the approval of the majority of the Council for the unexpired portion of the
term.
(Prior Code, § 405.03) (Ord. 456, passed 02-27-1989; Ord. 646, passed 01-10-
2000)
§ 33.063 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No member shall be personally interested in any contracts in which the
Commission may enter.
(Prior Code, § 405.04)
§ 33.064 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Removal for just cause. An appointed member of the Commission may be
removed from office for just cause and on written charges by at least four-
fifths of the entire City Council. The member may be entitled to a public
hearing before the vote is taken.
   (B)   Removal for non-attendance. In addition, an appointed member may be
removed by the City Council for non-attendance at Parks and Recreation
Commission meetings if a Commission member does not attend nine regularly
scheduled meetings per year.
   (C)   Vacancies filled. It shall be the duty of the Chairman of the
Commission to notify the City Council promptly of any vacancies occurring in
membership. The Mayor, with approval of the City Council, shall fill the
vacancies, for the unexpired term of the original appointment.
(Prior Code, § 405.05)
§ 33.065 ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   Officers. The Commission shall select a vice chairperson and
Secretary. The vice chairperson shall be selected from its membership and shall
serve for a term of one year. The Secretary may be selected from the Commission
or city staff.
   (B)   Attorney and Engineer. The municipal attorney shall act as attorney
for the Commission and the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation shall
act as its engineer.
   (C)   Rules of procedure. At its first meeting, the Commission shall adopt
rules of procedure and elect the two officers. It shall amend the rules, from
time to time, as is necessary.
   (D)   Meetings. The Commission shall establish regular meeting dates, but
special meetings may be called by any officer of the Commission upon seven
days’ notice to all members. The Commission shall hold at least 12 regular
meetings each calendar year.
   (E)   Quorum. A majority of the appointed members shall constitute a quorum.
(Prior Code, § 405.06) (Ord. 714, passed 05-12-2003)
§ 33.066 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In order to carry on the recreation provided herein, the duties of the
Commission shall include:
   (A)   Operation of city parks and playgrounds. Under the direction of the
City Council, advise city staff to operate a program of public recreation and
playgrounds upon property which is owned or otherwise made available to the
municipality for such public recreation purpose;
   (B)   Lease and acquisition of property.
      (1)   Recommend to the Council the leasing or acquisition of real or
personal property for public recreational use as it deems desirable but shall
not have the authority to acquire land or construct buildings in its own name.
Any equipment or recreational facilities shall belong to the municipality; and
      (2)   Advise the Council of leasing real or personal property or both for
public recreation use for periods of not longer than one year.
   (C)   Maintenance and care of public recreation property. Maintain and care
for all property which it has acquired and which has been assigned to it for
public recreation purposes;
   (D)   Inventories of services. Make periodic inventories of recreation and
park services which exist or may be needed and to interpret the needs of the
public to the Council;
   (E)   Cooperation with other agencies. Cooperate with other park and
recreation departments, schools and private agencies for establishment of a
joint powers agreement to provide parks and recreation services to the city
residents;
   (F)   Policies and functions of department. Interpret the policies and
functions of the Parks and Recreation Department to the public;
   (G)   Capital improvement plans and budgets. Advise the Council and
administrator in the preparation of the annual budget and long range capital
improvement programs;
   (H)   Rules and regulations. Formulate and prescribe reasonable rules and
regulations for the use of the general public of any facilities in any park
area;
   (I)   Construction of improvements. Advise the Council on maintaining and
constructing roadways, paths, buildings, fountains, docks, boat houses, bath
houses, refreshment booths, community center, pavilions and other necessary
structures and improvements in parks. The Commission may advise the Council on
making contracts and leases for the construction and operation of these
facilities for terms not exceeding ten years. Every such contract and lease
shall provide that the structure shall be operated for the public use and
convenience, and that the charges shall be reasonable, and it shall reserve to
the Commission power to prescribe reasonable rules and regulations, from time
to time, for the conduct of the privilege;
   (J)   Communication. Communicate regularly with the City Council and
Planning and Zoning Commission through joint meetings and meeting minutes;
   (K)   Athletic awareness. Be aware of the role and services provided by
athletic organizations within the community;
   (L)   Sanitation and reforestation programs. Advise the City Council
regarding sanitation and reforestation programs within the city; and
   (M)   Other duties. Do whatever other acts are reasonable, necessary and
proper to carry out its prescribed powers and functions as set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 405.07) (Ord. 714, passed 05-12-2003)
§ 33.067 BUDGET AND FINANCES.
   (A)   Annual presentation of proposed budget. The Commission, through the
City Parks and Recreation Department staff, should present, no later than
August 1 of each year, a proposed budget, in such details as the Council shall
require, of the financial needs for the ensuing fiscal year to operate and
maintain the parks and open spaces, as well as provide recreation programs.
   (B)   Fees and charges. The Commission shall advise the Council to establish
charges or fees for the restricted use of any facilities or to make any phase
of the recreation program wholly or partially self-sustaining.
(Prior Code, § 405.08) (Ord. 714, passed 5-12-2003)
§ 33.068 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Council may establish such rules and regulations for the administration
of this subchapter as it may deem necessary and may delegate the rule-making
authority to the Commission, and the Commission shall have power to make such
rules and regulations pursuant to delegated authority as it deems necessary for
the purpose of performing its duties as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 405.09)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.001   Date of elections
   
34.002   Terms of officials
   
34.003   Election law
§ 34.001 DATE OF ELECTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary, regular city
elections shall be held biennially on the first Tuesday after the first Monday
in November in every even-numbered year.
(Prior Code, § 107.01) (Ord. 943, passed 05-29-2018)
§ 34.002 TERMS OF OFFICIALS.
   Two Council members shall be elected for four-year terms at each biennial
election. The Mayor shall be elected for a two-year term at each biennial
election.
(Prior Code, § 107.02) (Ord. 943, passed 05-29-2018)
§ 34.003 ELECTION LAW.
   Except as otherwise provided by the Home Rule Charter or any supplementary
ordinance, general state laws on elections shall apply to all city elections.
(Ord. 943, passed 05-29-2018)
CHAPTER 35: EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
Police and Fire Fees and Charges
   
35.001   Definitions
   
35.002   False alarm fees
   
35.003   Maintenance-related fire service charge
   
35.004   Appeal process
   
35.005   Collection
POLICE AND FIRE FEES AND CHARGES
§ 35.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM USER. The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind upon whose premises an alarm or alarm system is
installed, operated or maintained. In the case of a single-family residence,
ALARM USER shall mean the owner, resident, tenant or lessee of the single-
family residence, as the case may be. In the case of a multi-family residence,
including apartment complexes, ALARM USER shall mean the owner of the multi-
family residence.
   ALARMS. Any mechanical functioning or electronic device which, directly or
indirectly, summons police or fire personnel.
   CITY. The City of Mounds View.
   FALSE ALARMS. Any alarm message or automated signal that summons police or
fire personnel to a location where no emergency exists. This definition does
not include alarms caused by weather or other conditions deemed to be beyond
the control of the alarm manufacturer, installer or owner.
   MAINTENANCE-RELATED FIRE SERVICES. Services provided by the city’s Fire
Department related to property maintenance issues, including, but not limited
to, those related to domestic water supplies and plumbing.
(Prior Code, § 602.01) (Ord. 952, passed 11-26-2018)
§ 35.002 FALSE ALARM FEES.
   (A)   Fee established. A fee shall be charged by the city to any alarm user
for a third and any subsequent false alarm response within a 12-month time
period. The alarm user will be responsible for payment of the fee.
   (B)   Fee amounts. Fees for three or more false fire or police alarms in a
12-month period are established in the city’s fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 602.02) (Ord. 952, passed 11-26-2018)
§ 35.003 MAINTENANCE-RELATED FIRE SERVICE CHARGE.
   Due to an increase in maintenance-related fire service calls at properties
within the city and pursuant to its authority to charge for fire services
contained in M.S. §§ 366.011, 366.012 and 415.01, as they may be amended from
time to time, the city may impose a service charge on a property owner for
receiving maintenance-related fire services:
   (A)   Property owners receiving maintenance-related fire services shall be
billed directly by the city fees established in the city’s fee schedule, which
shall be used to offset the expenses in providing the services. If the property
owner fails to pay the service charge within 20 days of the billing date, it
will be considered delinquent and the city may send a notice of delinquency;
and
   (B)   If a charge remains unpaid for more than 30 days after a written
notice of delinquency, the city may certify the unpaid charge for collection
with property taxes in accordance herewith.
(Ord. 952, passed 11-26-2018)
§ 35.004 APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Appeal to fire chief or police chief. An alarm user or property owner
required by the city to pay a fee as a result of false alarm or a maintenance-
related fire service charge may make a written appeal to the Chief of Police or
Fire Chief within ten working days after mailed notice of the fee or charge.
The Chief of Police or Fire Chief has the authority to make final determination
as to whether the applicant is to be charged.
   (B)   Appeal to council. An alarm user may appeal the decision of the Chief
of Police or Fire Chief to the City Council by submitting a request, in
writing, to the City Administrator within ten working days after the decision
of the Chief of Police or Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 602.03) (Ord. 952, passed 11-26-2018)
§ 35.005 COLLECTION.
   (A)   Names submitted to finance department. The Police Department and the
Fire Department shall document the names of the alarm users or property owners
that owe fees or charges. The names shall be submitted to the Finance
Department with the appropriate fee amount to be charged.
   (B)   Means of collection. The Finance Department shall be responsible for
the collection of the fake alarm charges authorized under this subchapter. The
city shall have the power to collect the fees by whatever means necessary. If a
fee or charge remains unpaid for 30 days after a written notice of delinquency,
the City Council may, on or before October 15 of each year, certify it to the
County Auditor for collection with property taxes. The city must give the
property owner notice of its intent to certify by September 15.
(Prior Code, § 602.04) (Ord. 952, passed 11-26-2018)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
36.001   Municipal depository
Funds
   
36.015   Debt Service Fund
   
36.016   Utilities Operating Funds
   
36.017   Lakeside Park Fund
   
36.018   Park and Playground Fund
   
36.019   Storm Water Management Fund
   
36.020   Special Projects Fund
Local Lodging Tax
   
36.035   Definitions
   
36.036   Imposition of tax
   
36.037   Collections
   
36.038   Exemptions
   
36.039   Advertising no tax
   
36.040   Payments and returns
   
36.041   Examination of returns, adjustments, notices and demands
   
36.042   Refunds
   
36.043   Failure to file a return
   
36.044   Penalties
   
36.045   Administration of tax
   
36.046   Examination of records
   
36.047   Use of proceeds
   
36.048   Appeals
 
   
36.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public Improvements, see
Ch. 37
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.001 MUNICIPAL DEPOSITORY.
   At its first meeting each year, the Council shall designate the depository
for the municipal funds.
(Prior Code, § 201.01)
FUNDS
§ 36.015 DEBT SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   Fund created. There is hereby created a fund designated as the “Debt
Service Fund”, referred to in this section as the “fund”, which the Finance
Director shall maintain on the official books and records of the municipality
and administer in accordance with this section, so long as any bonds directed
by the Council to be payable therefrom are outstanding.
   (B)   Purpose. This fund shall be used to pay principal and interest only on
general obligation improvement bonds issued to finance improvements instituted
under the city’s Home Rule Charter, as amended, Ch. 37 of this code of
ordinances, as amended, or other statutory or Charter provisions amending or
supplementing the Home Rule Charter or otherwise authorizing the issuance of
general obligation bonds payable primarily from special assessments, whether in
whole or in part.
   (C)   Use of fund. The fund shall be used for no other purpose except, when
all such principal and interest due have been paid in full, to repay any
advances from other funds used for the payments.
   (D)   Investment of fund. The fund may be invested in accordance with M.S. §
475.66, as it may be amended from time to time, or supplementary acts.
   (E)   Separate funds.
      (1)   Each bond issue authorized hereunder and the fund created thereby
shall be separate, and any balance remaining in the separate fund after all
bonds payable therefrom have been duly paid with interest and redeemed may be
transferred to the general fund.
      (2)   A separate fund shall be created for each improvement or
consolidated group of improvements to be financed by an issue of the bond, and
all collections of special assessments and taxes levied for each improvement
and all bond proceeds and any other moneys appropriated thereto by the Council
shall be held in the fund and used solely to defray the expenses of the
improvement (including interest and principal, if any, becoming due on bonds
whose proceeds are appropriate to the fund), until the improvement is completed
and the cost thereof is paid in full. Thereupon, the fund shall be
discontinued, and any balance of bond proceeds remaining therein may be
transferred to the fund of another improvement similarly instituted to be used
for debt service or to the general fund if so directed by the Council.
   (F)   Tax levies.
      (1)   Before the delivery of any issue of improvement bonds directed by
the Council to be payable from the fund, the Council shall, by resolution,
estimate the approximate principal amount of special assessments to be levied
for each improvement financed thereby and appropriated to the Debt Service
Fund, the number of installments thereof and the rate of interest to be charged
upon deferred installments and shall levy, if necessary, a general ad valorem
tax upon all taxable property within the municipality, to be spread upon the
tax rolls for each property with year of the term of the bonds, in amounts for
all years such that if collected in full, they, together with the taxes
theretofore levied and appropriated to the Debt Service Fund, plus the
estimated collections of the special assessments and of all other special
assessments theretofore pledged to the Debt Service Fund, will produce at least
5% in excess of the amount needed to meet, when due, the principal and interest
payments on the bonds and on all other then outstanding bonds which are payable
from the Debt Service Fund.
      (2)   All such tax levies shall be irrepealable; except that, if the
Council, in any year, makes an irrevocable appropriation to the fund of moneys
actually on hand from sources other than the special assessments and taxes
herein referred to, or if there is on hand any excess amount in that fund, the
municipality reserves the right to certify to the County Auditor the fact and
amount thereof and to request the Auditor to reduce by the amount so certified
the amount otherwise to be included in the tax rolls next thereafter prepared.
   (G)   Certification of levies. The City Administrator is directed to file a
certified copy of this section in the office of the County Auditor and prior to
the delivery of each series of improvement bonds payable from the fund, the
City Administrator shall also file with the County Auditor a certified copy of
the resolution authorizing the bonds and levying a tax for the payment thereof,
together with full information regarding the bonds for which the tax levy
required by law has made, and no further action by the municipality shall be
required to authorize the extension, assessment and collection of the tax, but
the Auditor shall annually assess and extend upon the tax rolls the amounts
specified in the resolution for each year, unless the amount has been reduced
as authorized in division (E) above.
   (H)   Pledge of credit. The full faith and credit of the municipality shall
be and are hereby pledged for the prompt and full payment of the principal of
and interest on all improvement bonds made payable from the fund, and the
Council shall pay the principal and interest out of any fund of the
municipality if ever the amount credited to the Redemption Fund is insufficient
for such purpose and shall each year levy a sufficient amount to meet any
accumulated or anticipated deficiency in that fund, which levy shall not be
subject to any statutory or Charter tax limitations. The provisions of M.S. §§
475.61 and 475.74, as they are amended from time to time, are hereby
acknowledged to be and are affirmed as covenants of the municipality with the
holders of all such bonds, from time to time, outstanding.
   (I)   Preparation, sale, execution and delivery.
      (1)   Improvement bonds to be made payable from the fund may be prepared
for execution in form, as provided for in M.S. § 475.55, as it may be amended
from time to time, with suitable variations as to date of issue, maturity,
interest payment dates, redemption privilege, serial designation and number and
other details.
      (2)   The amounts, maturity, interest rates and other terms of each issue
of improvement bonds made payable from the fund shall be established by the
Council, by resolution, and the bonds shall be issued and sold upon such terms
as are deemed by the Council, from time to time, to be reasonable and in the
best interest of the municipality and owners of property subject to special
assessment.
      (3)   Upon the sale of each issue, the bonds shall be prepared for
execution under the direction of the City Administrator and shall be executed
as provided for in M.S. Ch. 475, as it may be amended from time to time, and
the corporate seal of the municipality shall be affixed to each bond.
      (4)   When executed, the bonds shall be delivered by the Finance Director
to the purchaser thereof upon payment of the agreed purchase price, and the
purchaser shall not be obligated to see to the application of the bond
proceeds.
   (J)   Authentication of transcript. The officers of the municipality and the
County Auditor shall prepare and furnish to the purchaser of each series of the
bonds certified copies of all proceedings and records relating to the
authorization thereof and other certificates and affidavits as to matters shown
by the records in their custody or otherwise known to them as may be required
to evidence the validity and marketability of the bonds, and all such documents
shall be deemed representations of the municipality as to the correctness of
all statements therein contained.
(Prior Code, § 203.01) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 944, passed 06-25-
2018)
§ 36.016 UTILITIES OPERATING FUNDS.
   (A)   Establishment. There are hereby created separate and special funds
designated as the “Water Utility Operating Fund” and “Sewer Utility Operating
Fund” which shall be maintained on the official books and records of the city
and be administered in accordance with this section. These funds shall be used
to handle the revenues and expenses from the municipal water and sanitary sewer
utilities owned and operated by the municipality.
   (B)   Revenue and expenses. Revenue from either the water or sanitary sewer
system shall be credited directly to the proper account. Expenses shall be
debited against the applicable water or sanitary sewer system account. Any
expenses that are made for public utility purposes shall be apportioned by the
Finance Director to the applicable account.
   (C)   Transfer of funds. The Council may transfer funds into the Utilities
Operating Funds from any source, and the Council may transfer funds out of the
Utilities Operating Funds to the general fund or Debt Service Fund.
   (D)   Pledge of funds. In the event the Council pledges any of the funds of
the Utilities Operating Funds for bond redemption or any other purpose, the
City Administrator shall make such payments as are necessary in the manner
prescribed by law or resolution. All pledges must be satisfied before the
Council can authorize a transfer out of the Utilities Operating Funds.
   (E)   Investment of funds. Whenever there are temporary idle funds in the
Utilities Operating Funds, the Finance Director may invest said funds, and the
revenue derived therefrom shall be credited to the appropriate Utilities
Operating Funds.
(Prior Code, § 203.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 36.017 LAKESIDE PARK FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. There is hereby established and created a fund
designated as the “Lakeside Park Fund”, hereinafter in this section referred to
as the “fund”.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the fund is to account for expenses relating
to the operation, maintenance and improvement of Lakeside Park. There shall be
deposited in the fund contributions and/or donations received from other
governmental units, corporations and/or individuals, transfers from other city
funds and fees charged for recreation activities conducted at the park
authorized by the city and supervised by the Director of Public Works/Parks and
Recreation or other designee as authorized by the Council.
   (C)   Use of fund. The funds shall be used for the direct operating expense,
maintenance and improvements of Lakeside Park and for the direct operating
expenses of recreation activities conducted at the park.
   (D)   Expenses. All expenses from the fund shall be approved by the Council.
The Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation may recommend expenses for
approval.
   (E)   Accounting. The Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation shall be
responsible for and shall prepare an annual accounting of the fund. This shall
include all revenues, expenses and balances at the end of each calendar year.
All funds received shall be deposited with the city’s Finance Director as
provided for in §
32.016 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   Transfer of Funds. The Council may transfer funds into the Recreation
Activity Fund from any source, but there shall be no transfer of funds from the
Recreation Activity Fund, except for the purposes enumerated herein.
(Prior Code, § 203.04) (Ord. 944, passed 06-25-2018)
§ 36.018 PARK AND PLAYGROUND FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. There is hereby established and created a fund
designated as the “Park and Playground Fund”, hereinafter in this section
referred to as the “fund”.
   (B)   Purpose. There shall be deposited in the fund all cash payments
received by the city pursuant to the provisions of §
158.061 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Section
158.061 of this code of ordinances payments. The payments shall only be used by
the city for the acquisition of land for parks, playgrounds, public open space
or storm water holding areas or ponds, development of existing parks and
playground sites, public open space and storm water holding areas or ponds and
debt retirement in connection with land previously acquired for the public
purposes.
   (D)   Transfer of funds. Section
158.061 of this code of ordinances deposits may not be transferred out of the
fund, except for the purposes enumerated in division (C) above. Other receipts
may be transferred by the Council into the general fund for the purposes
enumerated in division (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 203.05)
§ 36.019 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AREA. The total area of the subject parcel of land measured in square
feet and to the centerline of any abutting public streets or rights-of-way.
      FUND. The Storm Water Management Fund.
      OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, corporation, syndicate, co-
partnership, trust or other legal entity having sufficient legal or equitable
interest in the subject parcel of land to commence and maintain proceeding for
a building permit under §§
150.050 through
150.054 of this code of ordinances.
      SWM CHARGE. The storm water management charge.
   (B)   Fund established. There is hereby established and created a fund,
designated as the “Storm Water Management Fund” and a charge designated as the
“storm water management charge”.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the fund is to provide for the preservation
and improvement of storm water drainage facilities within the city. There shall
be deposited in the fund all payments received pursuant to the provisions of
this section and such other moneys as shall be specified, from time to time, by
the City Council.
   (D)   Applicability.
      (1)   Any owner or owner’s agent who applies for a building permit under
§§
150.050 through
150.054 of this code of ordinances shall pay a storm water management charge in
an amount as determined hereinafter to the fund.
      (2)   If the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation determines
that applicant’s land contributes storm water to a storm sewer needing
improvement or additional monitoring (as identified in the Local Water
Management Plan, dated 02-12-1992, subject to subsequent revisions), the
applicant shall pay the SWM charge. If the Director of Public Works/Parks and
Recreation determines that the applicant’s land does not contribute storm water
to a storm sewer needing improvement or additional monitoring, the applicant
shall pay 20% of the SWM charge.
   (E)   Computation of required SWM charge.
      (1)   The minimum SWM charge shall be $25.
      (2)   No provision herein shall be construed to prohibit the payment of
more than one SWM charge for a specific parcel of land.
      (3)   The SWM charge shall be zero whenever a building permit is issued
for the addition, alteration or improvement to an existing single-family
residential structure or a lot which has an existing single-family residential
structure in an R-1 Zoned District.
      (4)   The SWM charge shall be as set forth in the city’s fee schedule.
      (5)   The SWM charge shall be adjusted annually on July 1 according to
the change in the Engineering News Record Construction Cost Index for the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area.
   (F)   Use of fund. Any SWM charge payments deposited in the fund shall be
used only for expenses incurred in the design, construction, preservation or
improvement of city storm water management systems. These expenses shall
include, but shall not be limited to, acquisition of land, woodlands and
easements, construction of water quality control improvements, preservation of
woodlands and debt retirement in connection with storm water management system
improvements.
   (G)   Transfer of funds. Any SWM charge payments deposited in the fund shall
not be transferred out of the fund, except for the purposes enumerated in
division (F) above.
(Prior Code, § 203.07) (Ord. 504, passed 04-27-1992; Ord. 944, passed 06-25-
2018)
§ 36.020 SPECIAL PROJECTS FUND.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS. Projects which are intended to acquire,
construct, permanently modify or purchase assets of a long-term character which
are intended to continue to be held or used, such as land, buildings and
machinery.
      EMERGENCY. An occurrence where the public health, safety and welfare is
jeopardized, where immediate action is necessary and must be declared by a
four-fifths’ vote of the entire Council.
      ENTERPRISE FUND. A fund established to finance and account for the
acquisition, operation and maintenance of governmental facilities which are
entirely or predominantly self-supporting by user charges. Examples of
ENTERPRISE FUNDS are those for water, sewer, gas and electric utilities,
swimming pools, airports, parking garages and transmit systems.
      EQUIPMENT. Tangible property of a more or less permanent nature, other
than land, buildings or improvements, other than buildings, which is useful in
carrying on operations. Examples are machinery, trucks, cars, furniture and
furnishings.
      GENERAL GOVERNMENT MAINTENANCE EXPENSES. Costs incurred for the upkeep of
physical properties in condition for uses or occupancy which are used in the
rendering of services traditionally associated with municipal government as
distinguished from those provided by municipal enterprise operations.
      GENERAL GOVERNMENT OPERATING EXPENSES. Costs which are necessary to the
rendering of services traditionally associated with municipal government as
distinguished from those provided by municipal enterprise operations.
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS. Public improvement projects as defined in
Ch. 37 of this code of ordinances.
      SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND. A fund set up to finance and account for the
construction of improvements or provision of services which are to be paid for,
wholly or in part, from special assessments levied against benefitted property.
   (B)   Fund established. There is hereby established and created a separate
and special fund designated as the “Special Projects Fund”, which the City
Administrator and Finance Director shall maintain on the official accounting
records and financial statements of the city and administer in accordance with
this section.
   (C)   Use of fund.
      (1)   This fund may be used to make interest-bearing loans to finance
public improvement projects authorized pursuant to
Ch. 37 of this code of ordinances or to make interest-bearing loans to finance
equipment purchases and/or capital improvement projects, which have been
included in the long-term financial plan, of any city enterprise fund.
      (2)   This fund may also be used to make permanent transfers for the
purchase of equipment and/or to finance capital improvement projects, which
have been included in the long-term financial plan, of any city fund, except
special assessment and enterprise funds.
      (3)   In no event shall this fund be used to finance current and
recurring general government operations and maintenance expenses.
      (4)   This fund may be used to make permanent transfers to the fund
balance of the general fund to ensure that there exists a cash flow reserve and
a reserve for contingencies. The amounts of the reserves shall be determined by
the City Council.
      (5)   This fund may also be used to make emergency repairs to the public
utility system, city streets and highways, municipal buildings and machinery
and equipment in the event that moneys for said repairs have not been
previously budgeted and/or that sufficient moneys are not available for said
repairs from other sources. In the event that the emergency repairs needed are
to assets accounted for in the Water Fund, Sewer Fund or any city enterprise
fund, the moneys for the repairs shall be in the form of an interest-bearing
loan. At the option of the Council, moneys used for repairs to assets accounted
for in the funds may be in the form of interest-bearing loans or permanent
transfers. It shall be used for no other purpose, and any moneys on deposit in
the Fund may be invested in accordance with provisions of the City Charter and
with applicable state statutes.
      (6)   This fund may also be used to pay the bond service charges of the
paying agents of the bonds which were formerly accounted for in the Debt
Service Fund and which were defeased on 01-18-1984.
   (D)   Funds to be deposited. There shall be deposited in the fund the
initial sum of $853,459 which represents the cash balance remaining in the Debt
Service Fund after the cash defeasance of the fund’s outstanding bonds. The
special assessments receivable of the Debt Service Fund shall be transferred to
the fund and, hereafter, all future payments of principal and interest on those
assessments shall be deposited in the fund. There may also be deposited in the
fund such other moneys as may be directed by the Council.
   (E)   Use of funds.
      (1)   Upon the adoption of a resolution by four-fifths of the entire
Council, moneys of the fund may be used for the purposes stated in division (B)
above. In the event of an interest-bearing loan, the resolution authorizing the
loan shall state the amount of the loan, its purpose, term, interest rate and
method of repayment.
      (2)   In the event of the purchase of equipment or the financing of
capital improvement projects, the authorizing resolution shall state the amount
of the purchase or financing, shall contain a description of the equipment or
project and shall designate the fund to which the moneys are to be transferred.
      (3)   In the event of emergency repairs, the authorizing resolution shall
state the nature of the repairs, the amount needed for the repairs and shall
designate the fund to which the moneys are to be transferred. The authorizing
resolution shall also state that moneys for the emergency repairs had not
previously been budgeted and that sufficient moneys are not available from
other sources to finance the emergency repairs.
      (4)   In the event of a permanent transfer to the fund balance of the
general fund, the authorizing resolution shall state the amount of the transfer
and shall indicate whether the transfer is designated for the cash flow reserve
or the reserve for contingencies.
   (F)   Amendment or repeal. Upon the adoption of an ordinance by four-fifths
of the entire Council, this section may be amended or repealed. In the event of
repeal, moneys accumulated in the fund shall be deposited in the general fund
with the resolution authorizing repeal specifying the purposes for which the
funds would be expended.
(Prior Code, § 203.08) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 944, passed 06-25-
2018)
LOCAL LODGING TAX
§ 36.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Mounds View.
   DIRECTOR. The Finance Director of the city.
   LODGER. The person obtaining lodging from an operator.
   LODGING. The furnishing for consideration of lodging by a hotel, motel,
rooming house, tourist court or resort, except where the LODGING shall be for a
continuous period of 30 days or more to the same lodger.
   OPERATOR. A person who provides lodging to others, or any officer, agent or
employee of the person.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, estate,
receiver, trustee, executor, administrator, assignee, syndicate or any other
combination of individuals. Whenever the term PERSON is used in any provision
of this chapter prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term as applied to a
corporation, association or partnership, shall mean the officers, or partners
thereof as the case may be.
   RENT. The total consideration valued in money charged for lodging whether
paid in money or otherwise, but shall not include any charges for services
rendered in connection with furnishing lodging other than the room charge
itself.
(Prior Code, § 204.01)
§ 36.036 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a tax of 3% on the rent charged by an operator
for providing lodging to any person. The tax shall be stated and charged
separately and shall be collected by the operator from the lodger. The tax
collected by the operator shall be a debt owed by the operator to the city and
shall be extinguished only by payment to the city.
   (B)   In no case shall the tax imposed by this section upon an operator
exceed the amount of tax which the operator is authorized and required by this
subchapter to collect from a lodger.
(Prior Code, § 204.02)
§ 36.037 COLLECTIONS.
   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this subchapter at the time
rent is paid. The tax collections shall be held in trust by the operator for
the city. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the rent charged
for the lodging.
(Prior Code, § 204.03)
§ 36.038 EXEMPTIONS.
   An exemption shall be granted to any person as to whom or whose occupancy it
is beyond the power of the city to tax. No exemption shall be granted, except
upon a claim therefor made at the time the rent is collected and such a claim
shall be made in writing under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the
city. All such claims shall be forwarded to the city when the returns and
collections are submitted as required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 204.04)
§ 36.039 ADVERTISING NO TAX.
   It shall be unlawful for any operator to advertise or hold out or state to
the public or any customer, directly or indirectly, that the tax or any party
thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be
added to the rent or that, if added, it or any part thereof will be refunded.
In computing the tax to be collected, amounts of tax less than $0.01 shall be
considered an additional cent.
(Prior Code, § 204.05) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.040 PAYMENTS AND RETURNS.
   (A)   The taxes imposed by this subchapter shall be paid by the operator to
the city not later than 25 days after the end of the month in which the taxes
were collected. At the time of payment, the operator shall submit a return upon
such forms and containing such information as the city may require. The return
shall contain the following minimum information:
      (1)   The total amount of rent collected for lodging during the period
covered by the return;
      (2)   The amount of tax required to be collected and due for the period;
      (3)   The signature of the person filing the return or that of an agent
duly authorized in writing;
      (4)   The period covered by the return;
      (5)   The amount of uncollectable rental charges subject to the lodging
tax; and
      (6)   A copy of the state’s sales and use tax return submitted by the
operator for the period covered by the return.
   (B)   The operator may offset against the taxes payable with respect to any
reporting period, the amount of taxes imposed by this subchapter previously
paid as a result of any transaction the consideration for which became
uncollectable during the reporting period, but only in proportion to the
portion of the consideration which became uncollectable.
(Prior Code, § 204.06)
§ 36.041 EXAMINATION OF RETURNS, ADJUSTMENTS, NOTICES AND DEMANDS.
   The Director may rely upon the state’s sales and use tax return filed by the
operator with the state in determining the accuracy of a return filed under
this subchapter. However, the Director shall be authorized to make any
investigation or examination of the records and accounts of the person making
the return, if the Director reasonably determines that such steps are necessary
for determining the correctness of the return. The tax computed on the basis of
the examination shall be the tax to be paid. If the tax due is found to be
greater than that paid, the excess shall be paid to the city within ten days
after receipt of a notice thereof, given either personally or sent by
registered mail to the address shown on the return. If the tax paid is greater
than the tax found to be due, the excess shall be refunded to the person who
paid the tax to the city within ten days after determination of the refund.
(Prior Code, § 204.07)
§ 36.042 REFUNDS.
   Any person may apply to the Director for a refund of taxes paid for a
prescribed period in excess of the amount legally due for that period; provided
that, no application for refund shall be considered unless filed within one
year after the tax was paid, or within one year from the filing of the return,
whichever period is the longer. The Director shall examine the claim and make
and file written findings thereon denying or allowing the claim in whole or in
part and shall mail a notice thereof by registered mail to the person at the
address stated upon the return. If the claim is allowed in whole or in part,
the Director shall credit the amount of the allowance against any taxes due
under this subchapter from the claimant and the balance of the allowance, if
any, shall be paid by the Director to the claimant.
(Prior Code, § 204.08)
§ 36.043 FAILURE TO FILE A RETURN.
   (A)   If any operator required by this subchapter to file a return shall
fail to do so within the time prescribed, or shall make, willfully or
otherwise, an incorrect, false or fraudulent return, the operator shall, upon
written notice and demand, file the return or corrected return within five days
of receipt of the written notice and shall at the same time pay any tax due on
the basis thereof. If the person shall fail to file the return or corrected
return, the Director shall make a return or corrected return, for the person
from the knowledge and information as the Director can obtain, and assess a tax
on the basis thereof, which tax, less any payments theretofore made on account
of the tax for the taxable period covered by the return shall be paid within
five days of the receipt of written notice and demand for the payment. Any such
return or assessment made by the Director shall be prima facie correct and
valid, and the person shall have the burden of establishing its incorrectness
or invalidity in any action or proceeding in respect thereto.
   (B)   If any portion of a tax imposed by this subchapter, including
penalties thereon, is not paid within 30 days after it is required to be paid,
the city may institute legal action as may be necessary to recover the amount
due, plus interest, penalties, the costs and disbursements of any action.
   (C)   Upon a showing of good cause, the Director may grant an operator one
30-day extension of time within which to file a return and make payment of
taxes as required by this subchapter; provided that, interest during the period
of extension shall be added to the taxes due at the rate of 10% per annum.
(Prior Code, § 204.09)
§ 36.044 PENALTIES.
   If any tax imposed by this subchapter is not paid within the time herein
specified for the payment, or an extension thereof, there shall be added
thereto a specific penalty equal to 10% of the amount remaining unpaid. The
amount of tax not timely paid, together with any penalty provided by this
section, shall bear interest at the rate of 10% per annum from the time the tax
should have been paid until it is paid. Any interest and penalty shall be added
to the tax and be collected as part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 204.10)
§ 36.045 ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   The Director shall administer and enforce the assessment and collection of
taxes imposed by this subchapter. The Director shall cause to be prepared blank
forms for the returns and other documents required by this subchapter and shall
distribute the same throughout the city and furnish them on application, but
failure to receive or secure them shall not relieve any person from any
obligation required of him or her under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 204.11)
§ 36.046 EXAMINATION OF RECORDS.
   The Director and those persons acting on behalf of the Director, authorized
in writing by the Director, may examine the books, papers and records of any
operator in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return
was made, to ascertain the tax as provided in this subchapter. Every such
operator is directed and required to give to the Director, or such other
authorized agent or employee, the means, facilities and opportunity for
examinations and investigations as are hereby authorized.
(Prior Code, § 204.12)
§ 36.047 USE OF PROCEEDS.
   Ninety-five percent of the proceeds obtained from the collection of taxes
pursuant to this subchapter shall be used in accordance with M.S. § 469.190, as
the same may be amended from time to time, to fund a local convention or
tourism bureau for the purpose of marketing and promoting the city as a tourist
or convention center.
(Prior Code, § 204.14)
§ 36.048 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any operator aggrieved by any notice, order or determination made by
the Director under this subchapter may file a petition for review of the
notice, order or determination detailing the operator’s reasons for contesting
the notice, order or determination. The petition shall contain the name of the
petitioner, the petitioner’s address and the location of the lodging subject to
the order, notice or determination.
   (B)   The petition for review shall be filed with the city within ten days
after the notice, order or determination for which review is sought has been
mailed or served upon the person requesting review.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the petition, the City Administrator, or the City
Administrator’s designee, shall set a date for a hearing and give the
petitioner at least five days’ prior written notice of the date, time and place
of the hearing.
   (D)   At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to show
cause why the notice, order or determination should be modified or withdrawn.
The petitioner may be represented by counsel of the petitioner’s choosing at
the petitioner’s own expense.
   (E)   The hearing shall be conducted by the City Administrator, or the City
Administrator’s designee; provided only that, the person conducting the hearing
shall not have participated in the drafting of the order, notice or
determination for which review is sought.
   (F)   The person conducting the hearing shall make written findings of fact
and conclusion based upon the applicable sections of this subchapter and
evidence presented. The person conducting the hearing may affirm, reverse or
modify the notice, order or determination made by the Director.
   (G)   Any decision rendered by the City Administrator, or the City
Administrator’s designee, pursuant to this division (G) may be appealed to the
City Council. A petitioner seeking to appeal the decision must file a written
notice of appeal with the city within ten days after the decision has been
mailed to the petitioner. The matter will thereupon be placed on the Council
agenda as soon as it is practical. The Council shall then review the findings
of fact and conclusions to determine whether they are correct. Upon a
determination by the Council that the findings and conclusions are incorrect,
the Council may modify, reverse or affirm the decision of the City
Administrator, or the City Administrator’s designee, upon the same standards as
set forth in division (F) above.
(Prior Code, § 204.15) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall willfully fail to make a return required by §§
36.035 through
36.048 of this chapter; or who shall fail to pay the tax after written demand
for payment, or who shall fail to remit the taxes collected or any penalty or
interest imposed by §§
36.035 through
36.048 of this chapter, after written demand for the payment, or who shall
refuse to permit the city to examine the books, records and papers under his or
her control, or who shall willfully make any incomplete, false or fraudulent
return shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 204.13)
CHAPTER 37: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Short title
   
37.002   Purpose
   
37.003   Authority
   
37.004   Definitions
   
37.005   Effect of Charter provisions
   
37.006   Statute provisions adopted
   
37.007   Council powers and authority
   
37.008   Combining improvements
Improvement Petition Procedures
   
37.020   Petition instituted
   
37.021   Council resolution; notice of hearing
   
37.022   Petition hearing
   
37.023   Sixty-day period; protests
   
37.024   Withdrawal from petition
   
37.025   Limitations
   
37.026   Reconsiderations
   
37.027   Petition by all owners
   
37.028   Appeal
Contract Procedures; Performance
   
37.040   Municipal contracting law; advertisement for bids
   
37.041   Cooperation with state or local government
   
37.042   Percentage payment on engineer’s estimate
   
37.043   Modification of contracts
   
37.044   Time limit on improvements
Costs and Administrative Procedures
   
37.060   Apportionment of cost
   
37.061   Assessment procedures; expense; notice
   
37.062   Appeal to District Court
   
37.063   Payment of assessments
   
37.064   Deferred payment of assessments
   
37.065   Service charges; special assessment against benefitted property
   
37.066   Special assessment against property of governmental units
   
37.067   Supplemental assessments and reassessments
   
37.068   Fees and charges for tax-forfeited lands returned to private ownership
   
37.069   Improvements abandoned
   
37.070   Charges for emergency services; collection; collection of unpaid
service charges and fees; collection of unpaid administrative offense penalties
Financing of Improvements
   
37.085   Authority to issue obligations
   
37.086   Due diligence responsibility of Council
   
37.087   Types of obligations permitted
   
37.088   Issuance of improvement bonds
   
37.089   Funds
   
37.090   Investment of other municipal funds
   
37.091   General obligation temporary improvement bonds
   
37.092   Transfer of funds
   
37.093   Federal Limitation Act
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter will be known, cited and referred to as the “Mounds View Public
Improvement Code”, except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as
“this chapter”.
(Prior Code, § 202.01)
§ 37.002 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide the procedure for initiating,
constructing, maintaining and financing local improvements and the imposition
of special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 202.01)
§ 37.003 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the Home Rule Charter of the city
(hereinafter referred to as the “Charter”), § 8.03.
(Prior Code, § 202.01)
§ 37.004 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Other terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Charter or
other provisions of this code, where applicable or consistent.
      CITY. The City of Mounds View.
      COUNCIL. The City Council of Mounds View.
      CLERK. The Mounds View City Administrator or his or her designee.
      IMPROVEMENT. Any type of improvement made under authority granted by the
Charter or state law.
      LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS. A public improvement financed partly or wholly from
special assessments.
      NEWSPAPER. The official newspaper of the city.
      NEWSLETTER. A letter published by the city at regular intervals at least
four times each year.
      STREET. Any street, alley or other public way or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 202.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 944, passed 06-25-
2018)
§ 37.005 EFFECT OF CHARTER PROVISIONS.
   Local improvements shall be carried out exclusively under the provisions of
the Charter.
(Prior Code, § 202.03)
§ 37.006 STATUTE PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. § 444.075, as it may be amended from time to time,
pertaining to waterworks systems, main sewers and sewage disposal plants, as
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 202.04)
§ 37.007 COUNCIL POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   The City Council shall have power to make the following improvements:
   (A)   To acquire, open and widen any street and to improve the same by
constructing, reconstructing and maintaining sidewalks, pavement, gutters,
curbs and vehicle parking strips of any material or by grading the same,
including storm sewers or other street drains and connections from sewer, water
or similar mains to curb lines;
   (B)   To acquire, develop, construct, reconstruct, extend and maintain storm
and sanitary sewers and systems, including outlets, holding areas and ponds,
treatment plants, pumps, lift stations, service connections and other
appurtenances of a sewer system, within and without the corporate limits;
   (C)   To construct, reconstruct, extend and maintain steam heating mains;
   (D)   To install, replace, extend and maintain street lights and street
lighting systems and special lighting systems;
   (E)   To acquire, improve, construct, reconstruct, extend and maintain water
works systems, including mains, valves, hydrants, service connections, wells,
pumps, reservoirs, tanks, treatment plants and other appurtenances of a water
works system, within and without the corporate limits;
   (F)   To acquire, improve and equip parks, open space areas, playgrounds and
recreational facilities within and without the corporate limits;
   (G)   To plant trees on streets and to provide for their trimming, care and
removal;
   (H)   To abate nuisances and to drain swamps, marshes and ponds on public or
private property and to fill the same;
   (I)   To construct, reconstruct, extend and maintain dikes and other flood
control works;
   (J)   To construct, reconstruct, extend and maintain retaining walls and
area walls; and
   (K)   Other improvements authorized by M.S. § 429.021, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 202.05)
§ 37.008 COMBINING IMPROVEMENTS.
   An improvement on two or more streets or two or more types of improvement in
or on the same street or streets or different streets may be included in one
proceeding and conducted as one improvement.
(Prior Code, § 202.06)
IMPROVEMENT PETITION PROCEDURES
§ 37.020 PETITION INSTITUTED.
   All local improvements to be paid for by special assessments against the
benefitted property shall be instituted by either:
   (A)   Petition of at least 25% in number of the benefitted property owners
together with a resolution adopted by an affirmative vote of the majority of
all of the Council; or
   (B)   A resolution adopted by a four-fifths affirmative vote of all of the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 202.07)
§ 37.021 COUNCIL RESOLUTION; NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   The Council resolution shall state the nature and scope of the
proposed improvement and shall provide means to obtain a cost estimate which
shall set forth the cost of the improvement both in unit price and in total
thereof.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the estimate, the Council shall, by resolution, set
a date for a public hearing on the proposed improvement, setting forth therein
the time, place and purpose of the hearing.
      (3)   The resolution shall be published twice at least one week apart in
the official newspaper of the city no less than two weeks prior to the date of
the hearing, and in addition thereto, a copy of the resolution, including
estimated unit prices and estimated total price thereof, shall be mailed to
each benefitted property owner at his or her last known address at least two
weeks prior to the date of the hearing.
      (4)   Failure to give mailed notice or any defects in the notice shall
not invalidate the proceedings.
   (B)   When any petition for the making of any public improvement or in
opposition to any public improvement, as provided for in this chapter, is
presented to the Council, the Council shall, by resolution, determine whether
or not the petition has been signed by the required percentage of owners of
property affected thereby or as to the sufficiency of the petition.
(Prior Code, § 202.07) (Ord. 944, passed 06-25-2018)
§ 37.022 PETITION HEARING.
   At the hearing, the City Council shall receive any written and oral
statements and hear any petitioners for or against the proposed improvement.
(Prior Code, § 202.07)
§ 37.023 SIXTY-DAY PERIOD; PROTESTS.
   (A)   A period of 60 days shall elapse after the public hearing before any
further action shall be taken by the Council on the proposed improvement. If,
within the 60-day period, a petition against the improvement be filed with the
Council, signed by a majority of the owners proposed to be assessed for the
improvement or, when the improvement has been petitioned for, signed by a
number of the owners proposed to be assessed for the improvement at least equal
to the number of those who petition for the improvement, the Council shall not
make the improvement at the expense of the property benefitted unless, in the
meantime, there be filed with the Council a petition asking that the
improvement be made, signed by property owners proposed to be assessed for the
improvement at least equal in number to those who signed the petition against
the improvement; in which event, the Council may disregard the petition against
the improvement.
   (B)   Regardless of the provisions in §§
37.020 through
37.024 of this chapter, when less than 100% of the estimated cost of a proposed
local improvement is to be paid for by special assessment within the 60-day
period after a public hearing has been held on the proposed improvement, a
petition may be filed with the Council, signed by a majority of the number of
electors who voted for Mayor in the last regular municipal election, protesting
against either the improvement or the assessment formula or both. In this
event, the Council shall not proceed with the improvement as proposed.
(Prior Code, § 202.07)
§ 37.024 WITHDRAWAL FROM PETITION.
   Any person whose name appears on a petition to the Council for a local
improvement or on a petition to the Council against a local improvement may
withdraw his or her name by a statement, in writing, filed with the Council
before the petition is presented to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 202.07)
§ 37.025 LIMITATIONS.
   When a proposed improvement is allowed under §§
37.020 through
37.024 of this chapter, the Council may proceed at any time between 60 days and
one year after the public hearing on the improvement. However, no contract
shall be let in the event that the current proposed contract exceeds the
estimated cost by more than 10%.
(Prior Code, § 202.07)
§ 37.026 RECONSIDERATIONS.
   When a proposed improvement is disallowed under §§
37.020 through
37.025 of this chapter, the Council shall not vote on the same improvement
within a period of one year after the public hearing on the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 202.07)
§ 37.027 PETITION BY ALL OWNERS.
   Whenever all owners of real property abutting upon any street named as the
location of any improvement shall petition the Council to construct the
improvement and to assess the entire cost against their property, the Council
may, after a public hearing, as provided in Ch. 8 of the Home Rule Charter,
adopt a resolution determining such facts and ordering the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 202.07)
§ 37.028 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person being aggrieved by this determination may appeal to the
District Court of the county by serving upon the City Administrator, within 30
days after the adoption of the resolution, a notice of appeal briefly stating
the grounds of appeal and giving a bond in the penal sum as specified in the
fee schedule, in which the municipality shall be named as obligee, to be
approved by the City Administrator, conditioned that the appellant will duly
prosecute the appeal, pay all costs and disbursements which may be adjudged
against appellant and abide by the order of the court.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall furnish the appellant a certified copy of
the petition or any part thereof, on being paid by appellant of the proper
charges therefor.
   (C)   The appeal shall be placed upon the calendar of the next general term
commencing more than 30 days after the date of serving the notice and filing
the bond and shall be tried as are other appeals in the cases.
   (D)   Unless reversed upon the appeal, the determination of the Council as
to the sufficiency of the petition shall be final and conclusive.
(Prior Code, § 202.07) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
CONTRACT PROCEDURES; PERFORMANCE
§ 37.040 MUNICIPAL CONTRACTING LAW; ADVERTISEMENT FOR BIDS.
   When the Council determines to make any improvement, it shall cause plans
and specifications of the improvement to be made, or if previously made, to be
modified, if necessary, and to be approved and filed with the City
Administrator. The municipal contracting provisions of M.S. § 471.345, as it
may be amended from time to time, and the advertising provisions of M.S. §
429.041, as it may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted as if fully
set forth herein. The versions of the statutory provisions adopted herein are
those that are in effect as of August 01, 2018.
(Prior Code, § 202.08) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 944, passed 06-25-
2018; Ord. 948, passed 07-23-2018)
§ 37.041 COOPERATION WITH STATE OR LOCAL GOVERNMENT.
   When an improvement is made under a cooperative agreement with the state or
another political subdivision by the terms of which the state or other
subdivision is to construct the improvement, it shall not be necessary to
comply with §§
37.040 -
37.044 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 202.08) (Ord. 944, passed 06-25-2018)
§ 37.042 PERCENTAGE PAYMENT ON ENGINEER’S ESTIMATE.
   In case the contractor properly performs the work, the Council shall, from
month to month before completion of the work, pay the contractor not to exceed
95% of the amount already earned under the contract, upon the estimate of the
engineer or other competent person selected by the Council, and the contract
shall so provide, and shall further agree that when the work is 95% or more
completed, upon the recommendation of the engineer, the portions of the
retained price shall be released as the Council determines are not required to
be retained to protect the city’s interest in satisfactory completion of the
contract. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all retainage shall be administered in
accordance with M.S. § 15.72, as it may be amended from time to time,.
(Prior Code, § 202.08) (Ord. 944, passed 06-25-2018)
§ 37.043 MODIFICATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   After work has been commenced on an improvement undertaken pursuant to
a contract awarded on a unit price basis, the Council may, without advertising
for bids, authorize changes in the contract so as to include additional units
of work at the same unit price if the cost of the additional work does not
exceed 25% of the original contract price.
   (B)   Original contract price means that figure determined by multiplying
the estimated number of units required by the unit price.
(Prior Code, § 202.08) (Ord. 944, passed 06-25-2018)
§ 37.044 TIME LIMIT ON IMPROVEMENTS.
   When the Council determines to make any local improvement, it shall let the
contract for all or part of the work, or order all or part of the work, as may
be authorized by law, no later than one year after the public hearing on the
improvement.
(Prior Code, § 202.08) (Ord. 944, passed 06-25-2018)
COSTS AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
§ 37.060 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The cost of any improvement, or any part thereof, may be assessed
upon property benefitted by the improvement, based upon the benefits received,
whether or not the property abuts on the improvement, and whether or not any
part of the cost of the improvement is paid from the County-State Aid Highway
Fund, the Municipal State Aid Street Fund or the Trunk Highway Fund. The area
assessed may be less than, but may not exceed, the area proposed to be assessed
as stated in the notice of hearing on the improvement, except as provided
below. The municipality may pay the portion of the cost of the improvement as
the Council may determine from general ad valorem tax levies or from other
revenues or funds of the municipality available for the purpose, subject to the
provisions of § 8.04(2) of the Charter. The city may subsequently reimburse
itself for all or any of the portion of the cost of a water, storm sewer or
sanitary sewer improvement so paid by levying additional assessments upon any
properties abutting on but not previously assessed for the improvement, on
notice and hearing as provided for the assessments initially made.
      (2)   To the extent that such an improvement benefits non-abutting
properties which may be served by the improvement when one or more later
extensions or improvements are made, but which are not initially assessed
therefor, the city may also reimburse itself by adding all or any of the
portion of the cost so paid to the assessments levied for any of the later
extensions or improvements; provided that, notice that the additional amount
will be assessed is included in the notice of hearing on the making of the
extensions or improvements. The provisions of §§
37.020 through
37.028 of this chapter shall apply to the extensions or improvements in the
same manner as if they were new improvements.
   (B)   Methods of reconstruction.
      (1)   General. The following are methods of street reconstruction and
rehabilitation, which will be utilized by the city in considering future
projects and assessments. It will be noted that the design standard for either
reconstruction or rehab will be the current design of the street section.
Projects may be constructed to higher designs if warranted and/or approved by
the City Council.
      (2)   Improvement type and apportionment of cost.
         (a)   Street reconstruction including curb and gutter. The cost of
street reconstruction shall be recovered on a project-by-project basis, as
determined by the City Council.
            1.   Non-collector street. Residential property owners may be
assessed for the cost of the pavement and base for the front footage side of
the property per direction of the City Council, which shall be determined on a
project-by-project basis.
            2.   Residents requesting curb and gutter. Any required storm sewer
and/or installation of sidewalks/trails on a construction project may be
assessed up to 25% of the total cost of the project additions, which will
include engineering, additional removals, base and all other associated
expenses. All additional project requests may be assessed at 25% of the total
costs associated with the improvements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all
assessments shall be subject to the special benefit limitation to the extent
required by state law.
            3.   Application. One hundred percent of the turn back funds
received from the county will be applied to the new construction or pavement
cost of the road that was received. The remaining cost shall be recovered by
means of the general ad valorem property tax paid by the entire community or by
other funds that may become available to the city for infrastructure cost
recovery.
         (b)   Street resurfacing. Street resurfacing is commonly known and
referred to as street overlaying whereby a new bed of road material such as
bituminous is installed over an existing paved road to a specific thickness.
Assessments shall be determined by the adjusted front footage method at 100% to
properties on both sides of the street. A mill and overlay to an existing paved
road will be assessed by the adjusted front footage method at 100% to
properties on both sides of the street. A recycle and overlay to an existing
paved road will be assessed by the adjusted front footage method at 100% to
properties on both sides of the street. Assessments will be based on physical
project costs plus engineering, administration costs, ROW expenditures and
other related project costs. The method of rehabilitation or resurfacing shall
be determined by the Pavement Condition Index (PCI) of the combined segments of
the streets considered for the project. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all
assessments shall be subject to the special benefit limitation to the extent
required by state law.
         (c)   Sidewalk. Sidewalk improvements may be done in conjunction with
a street reconstruction or as a separate project. In any event, sidewalks
requested that are not included in the city’s sidewalk and trail plan may be
recovered by assessing up to 25% to the affected property owners and the
remainder paid by the general ad valorem property tax paid by the entire
community or by other funds that may become available to the city for
infrastructure cost recovery. Sidewalks are generally installed on the city’s
major streets or in accordance with the city’s sidewalk and trail plan, which
will connect several neighborhoods and community attractions in a logical
pattern; these improvements will not be assessed to the abutting properties.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all assessments shall be subject to the special
benefit limitation to the extent required by state law.
         (d)   Sealcoating. Sealcoating, patching and cracksealing are
considered general maintenance activities and the expenses of the acts will be
paid for by ad valorem property tax or any other funds available to the city at
that time.
         (e)   Sanitary sewer and water mains. Repair and replacement of sewer
or water mains is usually done in conjunction with a street reconstruction
project and the cost of this work should be included as part of the total major
street project cost and should also be considered to be included in the rate
assessed for street reconstruction. If it is determined that the repair and
replacement work results in a greater benefit to some properties and not to
others, the Council should consider establishing a different assessment rate
based on the benefits received.
         (f)   Sanitary sewer and water trunk improvements. Trunk sewer and
water mains are usually designed to carry larger volumes of flow than are
necessary within an immediate property area in order to serve additional
properties beyond the area of their immediate placement. Therefore, 100% of the
cost of trunk improvements may be assessed on a unit basis to all properties
within a district deemed to be benefitted from the trunk improvements.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all assessments shall be subject to the special
benefit limitation to the extent required by state law.
         (g)   Sewer and water services. Individual sewer and water services
benefit only the properties they serve and 100% of their cost shall be assessed
to the property for which they are installed. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
all assessments shall be subject to the special benefit limitation to the
extent required by state law.
         (h)   Drainage improvements. Storm drainage and ponding/basin systems
are usually constructed to serve a specific drainage or “watershed” district.
These drainage districts have trunk lines, which are large diameter pipes that
transport large volumes of water from one or more drainage districts. Property
within drainage districts that would receive benefit from a trunk storm sewer
may be assessed per the direction of the City Council. The remaining cost will
be paid for by the Storm Water Surface Utility and/or by an ad valorem property
tax paid by the entire community or by other funds that may become available to
the city for infrastructure cost recovery. Should a project be initiated on a
particular street that requires storm sewer laterals which would be connected
to the trunk lines, the Surface Water Utility would fund these expenses.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all assessments shall be subject to the special
benefit limitation to the extent required by state law.
         (i)   Special conditions. Special consideration shall be given to the
“age” of a street or utility system when determining the proportion of cost to
be assessed to benefitted properties. If it is necessary to reconstruct or
resurface a street or perform major repair/replacement work on sewer and water
utilities, before a reasonable amount of time (ten to 12 years for resurfacing,
12 to 17 years for partial reconstruction and 17 to 25 years for total
reconstruction) the assessment shall be calculated on a pro-rated basis. The
remaining cost shall be recovered by means of the general ad valorem property
tax paid by the entire community or by other funds that may become available to
the city for infrastructure cost recovery.
         (j)   Mailboxes. In projects involving new street construction, and
mill and overlays, mailboxes will be grouped on gang posts in numbers logical
to the spacing required. This practice will ensure the proper placement of the
mailboxes, reduce potential roadside hazards and generally clean up the edge of
the street. The cost of the new posts and installation will be added to the
project. Residents of overlays and mill and overlays may request the new posts
and installation, which will be added to the cost of the project.
   (C)   Methods of assessment.
      (1)   Nature of improvement.
         (a)   The nature of an improvement determines the method of
assessment. The objective is to choose an assessment method which will arrive
at a reasonable, fair and equitable assessment which will be uniform upon the
same class of property within the assessed area. The most frequently recognized
assessment methods are: the unit assessment; the front footage assessment; and
the area assessment. Depending upon the individual project, any one or a
combination of these methods may be utilized to arrive at an appropriate cost
distribution. City staff will consider all methods and weigh their
applicability to the project and present a recommendation to the City Council
in the form of a mock assessment roll (or rolls). A description of each
assessment and its corresponding policy application is presented. A separate
section (Section III) will identify the appropriate match up of method with a
specific type of project and analyze why each is generally used.
         (b)   The purpose of assessment formulas is to allocate assessed costs
among benefitted properties, the formula should result in an allocation of
assessments which is reasonably related to the benefit received. Any one
predetermined formula will not be appropriate in all cases because of
circumstances unique to the relationship between the specific project and the
specific properties benefitted. When considering an assessment method or
formula for any given project, it may be necessary to combine assessment
methods or to modify the methods described below. Therefore, the following
description of methods of assessments should be regarded as guidelines, which
may not be appropriate in all cases.
      (2)   Unit assessment. A unit assessment shall be derived by dividing the
total project cost by the number of residential equivalent density (RED) units
in the project area. A RED UNIT is defined as a single-family residential unit.
All platted and unplatted property will be assigned RED unit values equivalent
to the underlying zoning. When the existing land use is less than the highest
and best permitted use, the Council may consider the current use as well as the
full potential of land use in determining the appropriate number of RED units.
Otherwise, the following RED chart will apply on a per unit basis, subject to
adjustment by the Council for any inequities: the unit approach has proven to
be the best method in those instances whereby the improvement largely benefits
everyone to the same degree and the cost of the improvement is not generally
affected by parcel size.
      (3)   Area assessment. The assessable area shall be expressed in terms of
the number of acres or the number of square feet subject to assessment. When
determining the assessable area, the following considerations will be given:
         (a)   Ponding assessment consideration. Lakes, ponds and swamps may be
considered a part of the assessable area of a parcel.
         (b)   Road right-of-way assessment consideration.
            1.   Up to 20% of the gross acreage may be deducted for street
right-of-way purposes within unplatted parcels of five acres or more depending
upon the parcel configuration and is only applicable to single-family
residential use.
            2.   Parcels of less than five acres may not qualify and may be
assessed full acreage.
            3.   The reason for this size restriction is that, in most
instances, parcels of less than five acres cannot support an internal public
road system.
         (c)   Park dedication assessment consideration. When park land is
dedicated as part of a residential development, as required by §
158.061 of this code of ordinances, the developer shall not be assessed an
acreage charge on the portion of land dedicated.
 
Commercial                     2.00 RED
Condominium                    0.80 RED
Duplex                         1.00 RED
Industrial                     2.00 RED
Multi-family (3 units or more) 0.80 RED
Single-family                  1.00 RED
Townhouse                      0.80 RED
 
      (4)   Front footage assessment. The actual physical dimensions of a
parcel abutting an improvement (such as, street, sewer, water and the like)
will generally not be construed as the frontage utilized to calculate the
assessment for a particular parcel. Rather, an “adjusted front footage” will be
determined. The purpose of this method is to equalize assessment calculations
for lots of similar size. Individual parcels, by their very nature, differ
considerably in shape and area. The following procedures will apply when
calculating adjusted front footage. The selection of the appropriate procedures
will be determined by the specific configuration of the parcel. All
measurements will be scaled from available plat and section maps and will be
rounded down to the nearest one-half foot dimension with any excess fraction
deleted.
      (5)   Categorical type descriptions. Categorical type descriptions are as
follows: standard lots; rectangular variation lots; triangular lots; cul-de-sac
lots; curved lots; irregularly shaped lots; corner lots; flag lots; and double
frontage lots. The ultimate objective of these procedures is to arrive at a
fair and equitable distribution of cost whereby consideration is given to lot
size and parcels are comparably assessed.
         (a)   Standard lots. In this instance, the adjusted front footage for
rectangular lots would be the actual front footage of the lot. The frontage
measured shall be the lot width at the front lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2562.jpg]
 
         (b)   Rectangular variation lots. For a lot which is approximately
rectangular and uniform in shape, the adjusted front footage is computed by
averaging the front and back sides of the lot. This method is used only where
the divergence between front and rear lot lines is 20 feet or less.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2564.jpg]
 
         (c)   Triangular lots. For a triangular shaped lot, the adjusted front
footage is computed by averaging the front and back lot lines. The measurement
at the back lot line shall not exceed a maximum distance in depth of 150 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2566.jpg]
 
         (d)   Cul-de-sac lots. The adjusted front footage for those lots that
exist on cul-de-sacs will be calculated at the midsection of the lot at the
most reasonably defined and determinable position. This line will be computed
by connecting the midpoints of the two side lot lines. Or, if the lots are
similar in nature and configuration, a common lot width, such as the standard
setback of 30 feet may be assigned based upon an evaluation of typical lots
within the subdivision.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2568.jpg]
 
         (e)   Curved lots. In certain situations such as those where lots are
located along meandering trail system streets, read patterns create curvilineal
frontages. In such instances, the adjusted front footage will be the width of
the lot measured at the midpoint of the shortest side lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2570.jpg]
 
         (f)   Irregularly shaped lots. In many cases, unplatted parcels that
are legally described by a metes and bounds description are irregular and odd
shaped. The adjusted front footage will be calculated by measuring the lot
width at the 30-foot building setback line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2572.jpg]
 
         (g)   Corner lots.
            1.   On a corner lot, 100% of the adjusted front footage of the
short side will be assessed and 25% of the adjusted front footage of the long
side will be assessed for improvements benefitting the respective sides. The
length of the property sides and not the orientation of the principal building
shall determine adjusted front footage in this case. A series of lots (two or
more) under common ownership shall be considered as one parcel or lot for
determining which is the short or long side of a property. However, this shall
only apply to series of lots on which only one principal building is situated.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2574.jpg]
 
            2.   General commercial zoned corner lots: the adjusted front
footage shall be the entire frontage of the side of the lot immediately
abutting the improvement.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2576.jpg]
 
         (h)   Flag lots. Properties which utilize a narrow private easement or
maintain ownership of access to their property exceeding a minimum length of
125 feet, thereby having a small frontage on a street, will be assigned an
adjusted front footage of 75 feet. This dimension is consistent with
Ch. 158 of this code of ordinances, which prescribes such length as the minimum
lot frontage along a public roadway. The adjusted front footage for flag lots
whose driveway access is under 125 feet will be measured at the building
setback line from the access terminus.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2578.jpg]
 
         (i)   Double frontage lots. If a parcel, other than a corner lot,
comprises frontage on two streets and is eligible for subdivision, then an
adjusted front footage assessment will be charged along each street. For double
frontage lots lacking the necessary depth for subdivision, only a single
adjusted front footage will be computed. The frontage with driveway access to
front of house, shall be assessed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2580.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 202.09) (Ord. 567, passed 11-13-1995; Ord. 600, passed 05-12-
1997; Ord. 654, passed 02-14-2000; Ord. 982, passed 11-08- 2021)
§ 37.061 ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES; EXPENSE; NOTICE.
   (A)   Calculation of expense; notice.
      (1)   Determination of expenses. At any time after a contract is let or
the work ordered, the expense incurred or to be incurred in its making shall be
calculated under the direction of the Council. The Council shall then determine
by resolution the amount of the total expense the city will pay, other than the
amount, if any, which it will pay as a property owner, and the amount to be
assessed. Thereupon, the City Administrator, with the assistance of the
engineer or other qualified person selected by the Council, shall calculate the
proper amount to be specially assessed for the improvement against every
assessable lot, piece or parcel of land, without regard to cash valuation, in
accordance with the provisions of §
37.060 of this chapter.
      (2)   Assessment roll. The proposed assessment roll shall be filed with
the City Administrator and be open to public inspection.
      (3)   Notices. The City Administrator shall thereupon, under the
Council’s direction, publish notice that the Council will meet to consider the
proposed assessments.
         (a)   The notice shall be published in the newspaper at least once and
shall be mailed to the owner of each parcel described in the assessment roll.
         (b)   The notice shall state the date, time and place of the meeting,
the general nature of the improvement, the area proposed to be assessed, the
amount to be specially assessed against that particular lot, piece or parcel of
land, that the proposed assessment roll is on file with the City Administrator
and that written or oral objections thereto by any property owner will be
considered.
         (c)   The notice shall state that no appeal may be taken as to the
amount of any assessment adopted pursuant to division (B) below unless a
written objection signed by the affected property owner is filed with the City
Administrator prior to the assessment hearing or presented to the presiding
officer at the hearing.
         (d)   The notice shall also state that an owner may appeal an
assessment to District Court pursuant to §
37.062 of this chapter by serving notice of the appeal upon the Mayor or City
Administrator of the municipality within 30 days after the adoption of the
assessment and filing the notice with the District Court within ten days after
service upon the Mayor or City Administrator. The notice shall also inform
property owners of the provisions of §
37.064 of this chapter and the existence of any deferment procedure established
pursuant thereto in the city.
         (e)   For the purpose of giving mailed notice, owners shall be those
shown to be such on the records of the County Auditor or the records of the
County Treasurer, but other appropriate records may be used for this purpose.
The publication and mailing shall be no less than two weeks prior to the
meeting of the Council. Except as to the owners of tax-exempt property or
property taxes on a gross earnings basis, every property owner whose name does
not appear on the records of the County Auditor or County Treasurer shall be
deemed to have waived the mailed notice unless the property owner has
requested, in writing, that the County Auditor or County Treasurer, as the case
may be, include the property owner’s name on the records for such purpose.
   (B)   Adoption of assessment; lien; interest.
      (1)   At the meeting or at any adjournment thereof, the Council shall
hear and pass upon all objections to the proposed assessment, whether presented
orally or in writing. The Council may amend the proposed assessment as to any
parcel and by resolution adopt the same as the special assessment against the
lands named in the assessment roll. Notice of any adjournment of the hearing
shall be adequate if the minutes of the meeting so adjourned show the time and
place, when and where the hearing is to be continued.
      (2)   The assessment, with accruing interest, shall be a lien upon all
private and public property included therein, from the date of the resolution
adopting the assessment, concurrent with the general taxes, but the lien shall
not be enforceable against public property as long as it is publicly owned, and
during such period, the assessment shall be recoverable from the owner of the
property only in the manner and to the extent provided in §
37.066 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 202.10) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 944, passed 06-25-
2018)
§ 37.062 APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT.
   All objections to the assessment shall be deemed waived unless presented on
appeal. This section provides the exclusive method of appeal from a special
assessment levied pursuant to this chapter.
   (A)   Notice of appeal. Within 30 days after the adoption of the assessment,
any person aggrieved, who is not precluded by failure to object prior to or at
the assessment hearing or whose failure to so object is due to a reasonable
cause, may appeal to the county’s District Court by serving a notice upon the
Mayor or City Administrator.
   (B)   Filing of notice. The notice shall be filed with the Clerk of the
District Court within ten days after its service.
   (C)   Documents furnished. The City Administrator shall furnish appellant a
certified copy of objections filed in the assessment proceedings, the
assessment roll or part complained of and all papers necessary to present the
appeal.
   (D)   Scheduling of appeal date. The appeal shall be placed upon the
calendar of the next general term commencing more than five days after the date
of serving the notice and shall be tried as other appeals in such cases.
   (E)   Decision of court. The court shall either affirm the assessment or set
it aside and order a reassessment as provided in §
37.067 of this chapter.
   (F)   Court costs. If appellant does not prevail upon the appeal, the costs
incurred shall be taxed by the court and judgment entered therefor.
(Prior Code, § 202.11) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 37.063 PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Installments.
      (1)   Except as provided below, all assessments shall be payable in equal
annual installments extending over such period, not exceeding 30 years, as the
resolution determines, payable on the first Monday in January in each year, but
the number of installments need not be uniform for all assessments included in
a single assessment roll if a uniform criterion for determining the number of
installments is provided by the resolution. The first installment of each
assessment shall be included in the first tax rolls completed after its
adoption and shall be payable in the same year as the taxes contained therein;
except that, the payment of the first installment of any assessment levied upon
unimproved property may be deferred until a designated future year or until the
platting of the property or the construction of improvements thereon, upon such
terms and conditions and based upon such standards and criteria as may be
provided by resolution of the Council.
      (2)   In any event, every assessment, the payment of which is so
deferred, when it becomes payable, shall be divided into a number of
installments such that the last installment thereof will be payable not more
than 30 years after the levy of the assessment.
   (B)   Interest. All assessments shall bear interest at such rate as the
resolution determines, not exceeding the maximum permitted by law; except that,
the rate may, in any event, equal the average annual interest rate on bonds
issued to finance the improvement for which the assessments are levied.
   (C)   Application of interest to installments.
      (1)   To the first installment of each assessment shall be added interest
on the entire assessment from a date specified in the resolution levying the
assessment, not earlier than the date of the resolution, until December 31 of
the year in which the first installment is payable, and to each subsequent
installment shall be added interest for one year on all unpaid installments, or
alternatively, any assessment may be made payable in equal annual installments,
including principal and interest, each in the amount annually required to pay
the principal over such period with interest at such rate as the resolution
determines, not exceeding the maximum period and rate specified above. In the
latter event, no prepayment shall be accepted under division (G) below without
payment of all installments due to and including December 31 of the year of
prepayment, together with the original principal included in such installments,
computed on an annual amortization basis.
      (2)   When payment of an assessment is deferred, as authorized in this
division (C), interest thereon for the period of deferment may be made payable
annually at the same times as the principal installments payable on account of
assessable real property; except that, interest accruing shall not begin to run
until the notice provided in §
37.061(A)(3) of this chapter has been properly given and 30 days thereafter
have elapsed.
      (3)   The Council shall provide for the payment of these amounts and
shall take appropriate action to that end.
   (D)   Notice of installment. If the assessment is not paid in a single
installment, the city’s Finance Director shall annually mail to the owner of
any right-of-way and, as long as the property is publicly owned, to the owner
of any public property, a notice stating that an installment is due and should
be paid to the city’s Finance Director.
   (E)   Collection from railroads and public utilities. The city may collect
the amount due on account of the right-of-way of any railroad or privately
owned public utility by distress and sale of personal property in the manner
provided by law in case of taxes levied upon personal property or by suit
brought to enforce the collection of this indebtedness unless a different
method of collecting such amounts is provided for by a contract between the
owner of any right-of-way and the city.
   (F)   Partial prepayment of assessments. Any person desiring to partially
prepay any assessment for a public improvement, the assessment roll of which
has been certified to the County Auditor for collection with general taxes, the
County Treasurer and the County Auditor are hereby authorized to establish
whatever procedure is necessary to make possible the payment of the balance to
the county officials in lieu of paying same to the Municipal Finance Director
as provided for by division (G) below. The county officials are hereby
designated as agents of the city to collect the assessments, and the mechanics
therefor shall be set up by the County Auditor, County Treasurer and the
Municipal Clerk-Administrator so that the intent and purpose of this chapter
can be accomplished.
   (G)   Payment of remaining unpaid installments. Any person desiring to pay
the remaining unpaid installments of an assessment for a public improvement,
the assessment roll of which has been certified to the County Auditor for
collection with general taxes, the County Treasurer and the County Auditor are
hereby authorized to establish whatever procedure is necessary to make possible
the payment of said balance to the county officials in lieu of paying same to
the Municipal Finance Director as provided in M.S. § 429.061, subd. 3, as it
may be amended from time to time. The county officials are hereby designated as
agents of the city to collect such assessments, and the mechanics therefor
shall be set up by the County Auditor, County Treasurer and the Municipal
Clerk-Administrator so that the intent and purpose of this chapter can be
accomplished.
(Prior Code, § 202.12)
§ 37.064 DEFERRED PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Senior citizens hardship special assessment deferral. After making a
special assessment, the Council may, at its discretion, defer the payment of
that assessment for any homestead property owned by a person 65 years of age or
older for whom it would be a hardship to make the payments. The Council shall
adopt a resolution establishing standards and guidelines for determining the
existence of a hardship relative to any special assessment adopted under this
chapter. The standards and guidelines shall be made in a non-discriminatory
manner and shall not give the applicant an unreasonable preference or advantage
over other applicants.
   (B)   Procedure to obtain deferred assessment. The eligible homeowner shall
make application for deferred payment of special assessments on forms
prescribed by the County Auditor. Where the deferred assessment is granted, the
Auditor shall record a notice thereof with the County Recorder which shall set
forth the amount of the assessment. The Council may determine by resolution the
amount of interest, if any, on the deferred assessment, and this rate shall be
recorded by the Auditor along with and in the same manner as the amount of the
assessment.
   (C)   Termination of right to deferred payment. The option to defer the
payment of special assessments shall terminate, and all amounts accumulated,
plus applicable interest, shall become due upon the occurrence of any of the
following events:
      (1)   The death of the owner; provided that, the spouse is otherwise not
eligible for the benefits hereunder;
      (2)   The sale, transfer or subdivision of the property or any part
thereof;
      (3)   If the property should, for any reason, lose its homestead status;
or
      (4)   If, for any reason, the Council shall determine that there would be
no hardship to require immediate or partial payment.
(Prior Code, § 202.13)
§ 37.065 SERVICE CHARGES; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT AGAINST BENEFITTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Property owner or occupant. The Council may place the primary
responsibility upon the property owner or occupant to do the work authorized
herein themselves, except in the case of street sprinkling or other dust
treatment, alley repair, tree trimming, care and removal or the operation of a
street lighting system, upon notice before the work is undertaken.
   (B)   Service cost assessments. As authorized under § 8.05 of the Charter,
the Council may provide by ordinance that the cost of city services to streets,
sidewalks or other public or private property may be assessed against property
benefitted and may be collected in the same manner as special assessments. The
costs shall not be deemed to be “special assessments” for the purposes set
forth in § 8.03 of the Charter. The city services shall include, but not be
limited to, the cost of snow, ice or rubbish removal from sidewalks, weed
elimination from streets or private property, removal or elimination of public
health or safety hazards from private property, installation or repair of water
service lines, street sprinkling or other dust treatment of streets, the
trimming and care of trees and the removal of unsound trees from any street,
the treatment and removal of insect infested or diseased trees on private
property, the repair of sidewalks and alleys or the operation of a street
lighting system.
   (C)   Procedure for assessment. Any special assessment levied under division
(B) above shall be payable in single installment or by up to ten equal annual
installments as the Council may provide. With this exception, §§
37.061,
37.062 and
37.067 of this chapter shall apply to assessments made under this section.
However, nothing shall prevent the property owner or other person served to pay
the city directly the charges when due prior to the assessment herein being
authorized and certified.
   (D)   Issuance of obligations. After a contract for any of the work
enumerated in division (B) above has been let or the work commenced, the
Council may issue obligations to defray the expenses of any such work financed,
in whole or in part, by special charges and assessments imposed upon benefitted
property under this section. Sections
37.085 through
37.093 of this chapter shall apply to such obligations with the following
modifications:
      (1)   The obligations shall be payable not more than two years from the
date of issuance;
      (2)   The amount of such obligations issued at one time shall not exceed
the cost of the work during the ensuing six months as estimated by the Council;
and
      (3)   A separate improvement fund shall be set up for each of the
enumerated services referred to in division (B) above and financed under this
section. Proceeds of special charges as well as special assessments and taxes
shall be credited to such improvement fund. Any balance of the proceeds of any
obligations remaining therein may be used to pay the cost, in whole or in part,
of any other improvement instituted pursuant to this chapter or may be
transferred to the fund established under §
37.004 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 202.14)
§ 37.066 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT AGAINST PROPERTY OF GOVERNMENTAL UNITS.
   (A)   Authority to assess. The city may levy special assessments against the
property of a governmental unit benefitted by an improvement to the same extent
as if the property were privately owned, but no such assessments, except for
storm sewers and drain systems, shall be levied against a governmental unit for
properties used or to be used for highway rights of way. A GOVERNMENTAL UNIT
means a county, city, public corporation or a school district. If the amount of
any such assessment, except one against property of the state, is not paid when
due, it may be recovered in a civil action brought by the city against the
governmental unit owning the property so assessed.
   (B)   Determination and collection of assessment. In the case of property
owned by the state or any instrumentality thereof, the Council may determine
the amount that would have been assessed had the land been privately owned. The
determination shall be made only after the Council has held a hearing on the
proposed assessment after at least two weeks’ notice of the hearing has been
given by registered or certified mail to the head of the instrumentality,
department or agency having jurisdiction over the property. The amount thus
determined may be paid by the instrumentality, department or agency from
available funds. If no funds are available and such instrumentality, department
or agency is supported, in whole or in part, by appropriations from the general
revenue fund, then it shall include in its next budget request the amount thus
determined. No instrumentality, department or agency shall be bound by the
determination of the Council and may pay from available funds or recommend
payment in such lesser amount as it determines is the measure of the benefit
received by the land from the improvement.
   (C)   Exclusiveness. This section shall not modify any law authorizing the
imposition of special assessments against governmental units.
(Prior Code, § 202.15)
§ 37.067 SUPPLEMENTAL ASSESSMENTS AND REASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Supplemental assessments. The Council may make supplemental
assessments to correct omissions, errors or mistakes in the assessment relating
to the total cost of the improvement or any other particular. A supplemental
assessment shall be preceded by personal or mailed notice to the owner of each
parcel included in the supplemental assessment and a hearing as provided for
the original assessment.
   (B)   Reassessment. When an assessment is, for any reason whatever, set
aside by a court of competent jurisdiction as to any parcel of land, or in
event the Council finds that the assessment or any part thereof is excessive or
determines, on advice of the City Attorney, that the assessment or proposed
assessment or any part thereof is or may be invalid for any reason, the Council
may, upon notice and hearing as provided for the original assessment, make a
reassessment or a new provided assessment as to the parcel.
   (C)   Reapportionment upon land division.
      (1)   When a tract of land against which a special assessment has been
levied is thereafter divided or subdivided by plat or otherwise, the Council
may, on application of the owner of any part of the tract or on its own motion,
equitably apportion among the various lots or parcels in the tract all the
installments of the assessment against the tract remaining unpaid and not then
due if it determines that the apportionment will not materially impair
collection of the unpaid balance of the original assessment against the tract.
The Council may, and if the special assessment has been pledged to the payment
of improvement warrants shall, require the owner, as a condition of the
apportionment, to furnish a satisfactory surety bond fully protecting the city
against any loss resulting from failure to pay any part of the reapportionment
assessment when due. Notice of the apportionment and of the right to appeal
shall be mailed to or personally served upon all owners of any part of the
tract.
      (2)   Within 30 days after the mailing or service of the notice of the
apportionment, any such owner may appeal as provided in §
37.062 of this chapter.
   (D)   Reassessment of tax forfeited land.
      (1)   When a parcel of tax-forfeited land is returned to private
ownership and the parcel is benefitted by an improvement for which special
assessments were cancelled because of the forfeiture, the city may, upon notice
and hearing as provided for the original assessment, make a reassessment or a
new assessment as to the parcel in an amount equal to the amount remaining
unpaid on the original assessment.
      (2)   The Council may make a reassessment or a new assessment pursuant to
division (D)(1) above; notwithstanding that, the original assessment may have
been made pursuant to other general law or special law.
(Prior Code, § 202.16)
§ 37.068 FEES AND CHARGES FOR TAX- FORFEITED LANDS RETURNED TO PRIVATE
OWNERSHIP.
   When tax-forfeited land is returned to private ownership and the land is
benefitted by a public improvement for which special assessments were cancelled
because of the forfeiture, the city may impose fees or charges for the use or
availability of the improvement or for connections therewith in an amount not
to exceed the amount remaining unpaid on the cancelled assessment. The city may
make the fees or charges a charge against the owner, lessee, occupant or all of
them and may certify unpaid fees or charges to the County Auditor with taxes
against the property for collection as other taxes are collected.
(Prior Code, § 202.17)
§ 37.069 IMPROVEMENTS ABANDONED.
   (A)   Cancellation of assessments. When a local improvement proposed to be
made by the city is abandoned before it is completed to an extent sufficient to
result in benefits equal to special assessments which have theretofore been
levied for the improvement, the city shall notify the agency acting as
collecting agent for the special assessment of the fact. Upon the notification,
all installments of the assessments and interest thereon which are not already
collected or in the process of collection shall be cancelled by the agency.
However, nothing herein shall prevent the city from making a reassessment of
any amount not exceeding the special benefits which actually accrue from the
improvement to part or all of the properties originally assessed, and nothing
herein shall affect the obligations of the municipality to provide funds
sufficient to pay any bonds issued to finance the improvement and the interest
thereon.
   (B)   Notice; refund of assessments.
      (1)   The Council shall instruct the City Administrator to publish and
mail notice as provided for in §
37.061(A) of this chapter, describing the improvement and stating that it has
been abandoned and that any person who paid any special assessments levied on
account of the improvement may file a claim, within six months following the
date of publication of the notice, for refund of the assessments paid by the
Clerk, together with any interest paid thereon. Failure to give mailed notice,
or any defects in the notice, shall not invalidate the proceedings.
      (2)   The city is not required to, but may, pay the claims filed after
the period allowed, and it may require any claimant to furnish satisfactory
evidence that claimant be paid the amounts claimed. The claims may be paid out
of moneys in the fund of the improvement which was abandoned unless obligations
have been issued payable therefrom or may be paid out of moneys in the general
fund.
   (C)   Transfer of assessments not cancelled or refunded. Any such
assessments not cancelled under division (A) above or not refunded under
division (B) above shall be transferred to the general fund or the Debt Service
Fund established in §
36.015 of this code of ordinances if not needed to pay costs of the improvement
and if not held in a debt redemption fund.
(Prior Code, § 202.18)
§ 37.070 CHARGES FOR EMERGENCY SERVICES; COLLECTION; COLLECTION OF UNPAID
SERVICE CHARGES AND FEES; COLLECTION OF UNPAID ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE
PENALTIES.
   (A)   Authority. This section is adopted pursuant to M.S. §§ 415.01, 366.011
and 366.012, as they may be amended from time to time, and § 8.06 of the City
Charter.
   (B)   Charges for emergency services; collection. The city may impose a
reasonable service charge for emergency services, including fire, rescue,
medical and related services provided by the city or contracted for by the
city. If the service charge remains unpaid 30 days after a notice of
delinquency is sent to the recipient of the service or the recipient’s
representative or estate, the city or its contractor on behalf of the city may
use any lawful means allowed to a private party for the collection of an
unsecured delinquent debt. The city may also use the authority of division (C)
below, to collect unpaid service charges of this kind from delinquent
recipients of services who are owners of taxable real property in the city, or
areas served by the city for emergency services.
   (C)   Collection of unpaid service charges and fees. If the city is
authorized to impose a service charge or fee on the owner, lessee or occupant
of property, or any of them, for a governmental service provided by the city,
the city may certify to the County Auditor, on or before October 15 for each
year, any unpaid service charges or fees which shall then be collected together
with property taxes levied against the property. A charge or fee may be
certified to the Auditor only if, on or before September 15, the city has given
written notice to the property owner of its intention to certify the charge or
fee to the Auditor. The service charges or fees shall be subject to the same
penalties, interest and other conditions provided for the collection of
property taxes. This section is in addition to any other law authorizing the
collection of unpaid costs and service charges or fees.
   (D)   Collection of unpaid administrative offense penalties and charges.
Subject to the requirements set forth herein, the city may certify to the
County Auditor, on or before November 15 of each year, any unpaid fees,
penalties and charges for an administrative offense as defined in §
130.002 of this code of ordinances which shall then be collected together with
property taxes levied against the property. Prior to the certification, the
city must attempt to obtain voluntary payment of the fees, penalties and
charges and allow the property owner the opportunity to request certification
to the property taxes as a method of payment. A fee, penalty or charge may be
certified to the Auditor only if, at least 30 days prior to imposing the
certification, the city has given written notice to the property owner listed
on the official tax records of its intention to certify the penalty or charge
to the Auditor. Property owners notified by the city for the purpose stated
herein have the right to request a hearing before the City Council or a neutral
third party. Only fees, penalties and charges directly related to the property
being assessed may be assessed through the manner set forth in this section.
The fees, penalties and charges will be assessed as published in the fee
schedule of the city. This section is in addition to any other law authorizing
the collection of unpaid fees, penalties and charges.
   (E)   Powers. The powers conferred by this section are in addition and
supplemental to the powers conferred by any other law for a city to impose a
service charge or assessment for a service provided by the city or contracted
for by the city.
(Prior Code, § 202.20) (Ord. 822, passed 07-02-2009)
FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 37.085 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE OBLIGATIONS.
   At any time after one or more improvements are ordered as contemplated in §§
37.020 through
37.028 of this chapter, the Council may issue obligations in such amounts as it
deems necessary to defray, in whole or in part, the expense incurred and
estimated to be incurred in making the improvements, including every item of
cost of the kinds authorized in M.S. § 475.65, as it may be amended from time
to time. In the event of any omission, error or mistake in any of the
proceedings required by this chapter or by the Home Rule Charter precedent to
the ordering of any improvement, the validity of the obligations shall not be
affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 202.19)
§ 37.086 DUE DILIGENCE RESPONSIBILITY OF COUNCIL.
   The Council shall cause all further actions and proceedings to be taken with
due diligence that are required for the construction of each improvement
financed wholly or partly from the proceeds of obligations and issued hereunder
and for the final and valid levy of special assessments and the appropriation
of any other funds needed to pay the obligations and interest thereon when due.
(Prior Code, § 202.19)
§ 37.087 TYPES OF OBLIGATIONS PERMITTED.
   (A)   Improvement bonds. The Council may, by resolution adopted prior to the
sale of obligations, pledge the full faith, credit and taxing power of the
municipality for the payment of the principal and interest. The obligations
shall be called improvement bonds, and the Council shall pay the principal and
interest out of any fund of the municipality when the amount credited to the
specified fund is insufficient for the purpose and shall each year levy a
sufficient amount to take care of accumulated or anticipated deficiencies,
which levy shall not be subject to any statutory or Charter tax limitation.
   (B)   Improvement warrants. Obligations for the payment of which the full
faith and credit of the municipality is not pledged shall be called improvement
warrants and shall contain a promise to pay solely out of the proper special
fund. It shall be the duty of the city’s Finance Director to pay maturing
principal and interest on warrants out of funds on hand in the proper special
fund and not otherwise.
   (C)   Temporary improvement bonds.
      (1)   In anticipation of the issuance of improvement bonds, the Council
may, by resolution, issue and sell temporary improvement bonds maturing within
not more than three years from their date of issue to pay any part or all of
the cost of one or more improvements.
      (2)   To the extent that the principal of and interest on the temporary
improvement bonds cannot be paid when due from receipts of special assessments,
taxes or other funds appropriated for the purpose, they shall be paid from the
proceeds of improvement bonds or additional temporary improvement bonds which
the Council shall offer for sale in advance of their maturity, but the
indebtedness funded by an issue of temporary improvement bonds shall not be
extended by the issue of additional temporary improvement bonds for more than
six years from the date of the first issue.
      (3)   The holders of any temporary improvement bonds shall have and may
enforce, by mandamus or other appropriate proceedings, all rights respecting
the levy and collection of sufficient special assessments and taxes to pay the
cost of the improvements financed by them which are granted by law to holders
of improvement bonds, except the right to require the levies to be collected
prior to the maturity of the temporary improvement bonds.
      (4)   If any temporary improvement bonds are not paid in full at
maturity, the holders may require the issuance in exchange for them, at par, of
new temporary improvement bonds maturing within one year from their date of
issue (but not subject to any other maturity limitation) and beating interest
at the maximum rate permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 202.19)
§ 37.088 ISSUANCE OF IMPROVEMENT BONDS.
   (A)   All obligations shall be issued in accordance with the provisions of
the Charter and M.S. Ch. 475, as it may be amended from time to time; except
that, an election shall be required for bonds if less than 20% of the cost of
the improvement to the municipality is to be assessed against benefitted
property.
   (B)   The maturities shall be such as, in the opinion of the Council, are
warranted by the anticipated collections of assessments and ad valorem levies
for the city’s share of the cost; except that, the Council may, in its
discretion, issue and sell temporary improvement bonds at any time prior to
completion of the work to be financed, maturing within not more than three
years from their date of issue, in which event, the municipality shall be
obligated to pay such bond and the interest thereon out of the proceeds of
definitive improvement bonds which the Council shall issue and sell at or prior
to the maturity of the temporary bonds, to the extent that the same cannot be
paid out of the assessments and taxes theretofore collected or out of any other
municipal funds which are properly available and appropriated by the Council
for such purpose.
   (C)   The holders of the temporary bonds and the taxpayers of the city shall
have and may enforce, by mandamus or other appropriate proceedings, all rights
respecting the levy and collection of sufficient assessments and taxes to pay
the cost of the improvements financed thereby which are granted by law to
holders of other improvement bonds, except the right to require the levies to
be collected prior to the maturity of the temporary bonds, and shall have the
additional right to require the offering of the definitive improvement bonds at
public sale or, if the bonds have not been sold and delivered prior to the
maturity of the temporary bonds, to require the issuance in exchange therefor,
on a par-for-par basis, of either new temporary bonds or definitive bonds,
bearing interest at the maximum rate permitted by law.
   (D)   Any funds of the city may be invested in temporary improvement bonds
in accordance with state statutes; except that, the temporary bonds may be
purchased only out of funds which the Council determines will not be required
for other purposes prior to their maturity, shall be resold prior to maturity
only in the case of unforeseen emergency.
   (E)   When the purchase is made out of moneys held in a debt service fund
for other bonds of the city, the holders of other bonds shall have the right to
enforce the city’s obligation to sell definitive bonds at or before the
maturity of the temporary bonds or to exchange the same in the same manner as
holders of the temporary bonds. All obligations shall state upon their face the
purpose of the issue and the fund from which they are payable.
   (F)   The amount of any obligations issued hereunder shall not be included
in determining the net indebtedness of the city under the provisions of any law
limiting the indebtedness.
(Prior Code, § 202.19) (Ord. 944, passed 06-25-2018)
§ 37.089 FUNDS.
   (A)   The proceeds from the sale of each issue of obligations and from
collection of special assessments levied and other moneys appropriated for each
improvement to be financed wholly or partly from the proceeds shall be credited
to a separate construction fund which shall be used solely to defray expenses
of the improvements and payment of principal and interest due upon the
obligations prior to completion and payment of all costs of the improvements so
financed.
   (B)   Any balance of the proceeds of bonds remaining therein may be used to
pay the cost, in whole or in part, of any other improvement instituted pursuant
to this chapter.
   (C)   A separate account shall be maintained in the construction fund to
record expenditures for each improvement, and when the total cost thereof has
been paid, all subsequent collections of special assessments levied for the
improvements shall be credited and paid into the Debt Service Fund for the
obligations issued to finance the improvement, as provided in M.S. § 475.61, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Any taxes levied for improvements financed by an issue of obligations
shall be credited directly to the Debt Service Fund.
(Prior Code, § 202.19)
§ 37.090 INVESTMENT OF OTHER MUNICIPAL FUNDS.
   (A)   Funds of a municipality may be invested in its temporary improvement
bonds in accordance with the provisions of state statutes and may be purchased
upon their initial issue, but shall be purchased only from funds which the
Council determines will not be required for other purposes before the maturity
date and shall be resold before maturity only in case of emergency.
   (B)   If purchased from a Debt Service Fund securing other bonds, the
holders of those bonds may enforce the municipality’s obligations on the
temporary improvement bonds in the same manner as if they held the temporary
improvement bonds.
(Prior Code, § 202.19) (Ord. 944, passed 06-25-2018)
§ 37.091 GENERAL OBLIGATION TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT BONDS.
   (A)   The Council may, by resolution adopted prior to the sale of any
temporary improvement bonds, pledge the full faith, credit and taxing power of
the municipality for the payment of the principal and interest, in addition to
all provisions made for their security in §
37.087(C) of this chapter. In this event, the bonds shall be designated as
general obligation temporary improvement bonds, and the Council shall levy
taxes for their payment in accordance with M.S. § 475.61, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   Proceeds of improvement bonds or temporary improvement bonds not yet
sold may be treated as pledged revenues, in reduction of the tax otherwise
required by M.S. § 475.61, as it may be amended from time to time, to be levied
prior to delivery of the obligations.
(Prior Code, § 202.19)
§ 37.092 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Any moneys now or hereafter remaining in a fund heretofore or hereafter
created by the city for making one or more local improvements, after the
improvements have been completed and all claims against and obligations of the
fund have been satisfied, shall be transferred to the general fund or the Debt
Service Fund established in §
36.015 of this code of ordinances; provided that, the Council may, in its
discretion, authorize and direct the Municipal Finance Director to refund all
or part of the moneys to the persons who paid the assessments for the
improvements following the procedure set forth in §
37.069(B) of this chapter. The amounts to be refunded in respect to the
assessment against each property shall be proportionate to the original
principal amount thereof and shall be paid to the claimant who paid the last
installment of the assessment aggregating more than the amount to be refunded.
No refund shall be made in respect to any assessment which is delinquent as to
either principal or interest. Any installment of any assessment which is not
collected or in the process of collection at the time when refunds may be made
under this section shall be cancelled as provided in §
37.069(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 202.19)
§ 37.093 FEDERAL LIMITATION ACT.
   M.S. Ch. 541, as it may be amended from time to time, applies to any
issuance of obligations under this subchapter which are subject to limitation
under a federal limitation act.
(Prior Code, § 202.19)
CHAPTER 38: DISCRIMINATORY COVENANTS
Section
   
38.001   Findings
   
38.002   Defined
   
38.003   Discharge of discriminatory covenants
   
38.004   Discriminatory covenants prohibited
 
   
38.999   Penalty
§ 38.001 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Discriminatory covenants were tools used by real estate developers to
prevent persons of color and non-Christian individuals from buying or occupying
property in certain areas. They were common throughout the United States from
the early 1900s to the 1960s; and
   (B)   The purpose of discriminatory covenants was to racially and
religiously homogenize communities by excluding persons of color and non-
Christian individuals from the city. These tools segregated the metro area and
built a hidden system of apartheid; and
   (C)   In 2016, the University of Minnesota founded Mapping Prejudice to
expose the racist practices that shaped the landscape of the metro area.
Mapping Prejudice researched restrictive covenants in Ramsey County and created
the first-ever comprehensive map of racial covenants in an American city. As of
February 2024, the project mapped 5,458 covenants in Ramsey County, including
531 covenants in Mounds View; and
   (D)   An example of a covenant in the city declared that “No person or
persons other than of the
Caucasian race shall be permitted to occupy said premises or any part thereof”;
and
   (E)   Discriminatory covenants exist throughout the city; and
   (F)   Restrictive covenants are no longer enforceable. Legal efforts to
eliminate Discriminatory Covenants include Shelley v. Kraemer, 334 U.S. 1
(1948), in which the United States Supreme Court prohibited courts from
enforcing discriminatory covenants, and the state legislature in 1953 enacted
statutes that prohibited new covenants, but existing covenants were still legal
in the state until 1962; and
   (G)   As a result of these judicial and legislative actions, today, state
and federal law prohibit discrimination in the sale or lease of housing, based
on race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, status
with regard to public assistance, disability, sexual orientation, or familial
status. Those state and federal prohibitions extend to the refusal to sell or
to circulate, post or cause to be printed, circulated, or posted, any
limitation, specification, or law discriminating in the sale or lease of
housing; and
   (H)   In 2019, the state legislature passed a law authorizing property
owners to individually discharge or renounce discriminatory covenants by
recording a discharge form in the county property records; and
   (I)   Discriminatory covenants promoted and established residential racial
segregation, which historically and currently has impacted properly ownership,
accumulation of wealth, property transfers, mortgage eligibility, rental
eligibility, property values, property tax base, internet access, and more.
Discriminatory covenants fortified systemic racism and compounded economic
divestment in specific communities within the county; and
   (J)   The state, including the city, recognizes the harm that discriminatory
covenants, and the racial, religious, and other discriminatory practices that
they represent, cause to society in general and to the individuals who are
adversely affected by racial, religious, and other discrimination through the
presence of discriminatory covenants in the public land records; and
   (K)   The city disavows and condemns the past use of discriminatory
covenants and prohibits them from being used in the future.
(Ord. 1014, passed 07-22-2024)
§ 38.002 DEFINED.
   DISCRIMINATORY COVENANT. Any restrictive covenant filed against any property
that restricts to whom the property may be conveyed, based on race, color,
creed, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, status with regard to
public assistance, disability, sexual orientation, or familial status.
(Ord. 1014, passed 07-22-2024)
§ 38.003 DISCHARGE OF DISCRIMINATORY COVENANTS.
   (A)   Required. No person shall sell, give, or transact a change in title or
property ownership of real property with one or more buildings or structures,
without receiving a certificate from the city.
   (B)   Application. Unless the property owner already has a certificate for a
property, the owner or owner’s representative is required to obtain a
certificate before the property is sold, gifted or transferred, and before the
owner or owner’s representative enters into any contract for deed or other
transaction changing the party responsible for the property.
   (C)   Issuance of certificate. A certificate shall be issued by the city if:
      (1)   The applicant submits title evidence showing no discriminatory
covenant for the property.
      (2)   The applicant submits documentation showing the discriminatory
covenant has been discharged.
      (3)   The applicant submits the form required to discharge discriminatory
covenants to the city for filing with the county. The city may provide notary
and mailing services. The certificate shall not be issued unless the form is
accepted and filed with the county.
      (4)   The applicant files the required form to discharge the
discriminatory covenant at the time of closing.
   (D)   City records. The city shall maintain a list of all properties that it
has been informed have a discriminatory covenant and a list of all properties
for which a certificate has been issued.
(Ord. 1014, passed 07-22-2024) Penalty, see § 38.999
§ 38.004 DISCRIMINATORY COVENANTS PROHIBITED.
   Discriminatory covenants are prohibited in the city and may not be filed
against any property in the city.
(Ord. 1014, passed 07-22-2024) Penalty, see § 38.999
§ 38.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall not result in a petty misdemeanor or
criminal prosecution. Violations of this chapter shall be charged as an
administrative offense subject to §
130.002 of the city code.
(Ord. 1014, passed 07-22-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY
      
54.   RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
      
55.   FACILITIES IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
Section
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Collection required; exemptions
   
50.003   Garbage and recycling containers
   
50.004   Storage of garbage and recyclable materials
   
50.005   Yard waste and composting
   
50.006   License to haul required
 
   
50.999   Penalty
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLIANCES. Washers, dryers, refrigerators, freezers, air conditioners,
dehumidifiers, stoves, ranges, hot water heaters, water softeners and other,
similar large household items that require electricity and/or special
processing under state laws, but do not include “electronic waste”.
   BULKY WASTE. All large, bulky household materials which do not fit within
the garbage container, and include (but are not limited to) carpeting and
padding, mattresses, chairs, couches, tables, appliances and car parts
including wheels, rims and tires.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Includes properties in the city that are
classified generally as commercial, institutional, industrial or business in
the city zoning code which generate garbage and recyclables and are typically
serviced by a dumpster form of garbage container.
   COMPOSTING. Has the meaning set forth in state statutes and rules of the
state’s Pollution Control Agency and shall include plant materials, such as
grass, leaves, straw and non-woody plant materials and residential food wastes,
stored on a person’s property for the purposes of recycling organic materials
as a soil conditioner.
   DUMPSTER. Has the commonly used meaning in the solid waste industry of a
commercial garbage container made of metal or durable plastic with a lid that
can be serviced by a front-end loading automated or rear-loading semi-automated
garbage truck.
   ELECTRONIC WASTE (ELECTRONIC ITEMS). Have the meaning set forth in state
statutes and shall mean items such as television and computer monitors,
computers, computer peripheral devices, fax machines, DVD players, video
cassette recorders, other video display devices, cellphones and other small
appliances with an electric cord.
   FOOD WASTE. Includes meal preparation and left over food scraps from
households intentionally separated at the source by residents for the purpose
of backyard composting or separate collection for centralized recovery.
   GARBAGE. Has the meaning as set forth in state statutes, mixed municipal
solid waste and means solid waste from residential, commercial, industrial and
community activities that the generator of the waste aggregates for collection,
but does not include auto hulks, street sweepings, ash, construction debris,
mining waste, sludges, tree and agricultural waste, tires, lead acid batteries,
motor and vehicle fluids and filters, and other materials collected, processed
and disposed of as separate waste.
   HAULER. A collector or transporter of garbage, recyclable materials, bulky
waste, electronic waste, source-separated compostable material or yard waste.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Has the meaning as set forth in state statutes
and/or State Pollution Control Agency regulations and means waste generated
from household activities that exhibits the characteristics of or that is
listed as “hazardous waste” under agency rules, but does not include waste from
commercial activities that is generated, stored or present in a household and
includes items such as paint, fluorescent light bulbs, mercury thermometers,
cleaning fluids, herbicides, pesticides, fertilizers and other such defined
wastes.
   LEGAL HOLIDAYS. New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, July 4, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any park, trailer court, trailer camp, court, campsite,
lot, parcel or tract of land designed, maintained or intended for the purpose
of supplying a location or accommodation for any mobile home.
   MULTIPLE-UNIT DWELLING. Any building used for residential purposes
consisting of four or more residential units with kitchen facilities for each.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Those materials designated as recyclable in the city’s
solid waste management standards.
   RESIDENCE. Any single building of one to three dwelling units with
individual kitchen facilities for each.
   SELF-HAUL. The city-approved method for a resident to contain and transport
garbage from his or her own household to a licensed/permitted mixed municipal
solid waste facility. SELF-HAUL requires the specific approval of the city.
   SOLID WASTE. Has the meaning as set forth in state statutes, but is further
defined for purposes of this chapter to include garbage, recyclables,
appliances, electronic waste, bulky waste, yard waste and household hazardous
waste.
   SOURCE-SEPARATED ORGANIC WASTE. Has the meaning as set forth in State
Pollution Control Agency rules and means organic materials that are:
      (1)   Separated at the source by waste generators for the purpose of
preparing them for recovery;
      (2)   Collected separately from mixed municipal solid waste; and
      (3)   Comprised of food waste, fish and animal waste, plant materials and
paper that is not recyclable.
   VECTORS OF DISEASE. Animals including, but not limited, to insects, mice,
rats, squirrels, crows, flies and other vermin that are capable of carrying,
transmitting and/or infecting humans with disease.
   YARD WASTE. Has the meaning as set forth in State Pollution Control Agency
rules and shall include leaves, grass clippings, organic garden waste or shrub
and small tree branches similar non-woody plant materials less than two inches
in diameter.
(Prior Code, § 603.01) (Ord. 486, passed 04-23-1990; Ord. 512, passed 06-22-
1992)
§ 50.002 COLLECTION REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Collection required.
      (1)   All garbage, recyclables, yard waste, source-separated organic
waste and other waste material accumulated in the city shall be collected and
conveyed under the supervision of the City Administrator. The City
Administrator or his or her designee shall have the authority to develop solid
waste management standards concerning days of collection, type and location of
waste containers and other matters as they deem necessary to provide for the
safe, orderly and cost-efficient preparation, storage, collection and disposal
of all waste materials covered in this chapter. These standards shall not be
contrary to this chapter.
      (2)   Unless otherwise exempt pursuant to division (B) below, each
residence, multiple-unit dwelling, commercial establishment and mobile home
park in the city shall contract with a hauler licensed by the city for the
collection of garbage and recyclables.
      (3)   All residents and commercial property shall separate all designated
recyclables, and other items designated by city solid waste management
standards, from garbage. These source separated items shall be collected for
separate recycling, processing or treatment.
      (4)   All garbage shall be disposed of in compliance with state law and
county policies regarding required processing of solid waste.
   (B)   Exemptions. A household or business may be exempted from the
requirements of division (A) above upon demonstrating to the satisfaction of
the city that an environmentally sound alternative method of solid waste
disposal that complies with state laws and regulations and county policies and
is in conformance with the city solid waste management standards will be used.
Application for an exemption will be made on a form provided by the city. The
application shall be reviewed by the City Administrator who shall approve or
deny that application and shall notify the applicant, in writing, of the
decision. Any applicant aggrieved by the decision of the City Administrator may
appeal that decision to the City Council within ten days of the date of the
written notice. The City Council shall hear the appeal at its next regularly
scheduled meeting.
   (C)   Violations. Every day that a person fails to engage a hauler, as
required herein, shall constitute a new violation of this code and shall be
subject to the penalties imposed in §
50.999 of this chapter. However, no person can be charged with a violation
pending a final decision on an application for exemption.
(Prior Code, § 603.02) (Ord. 516, passed 09-14-1992; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.003 GARBAGE AND RECYCLING CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Container required. Every residence, multiple-unit dwelling and
commercial establishment contracting with a hauler shall be provided one or
more separate sanitary containers sufficient to receive all garbage and
recyclables, which may accumulate between the times of collection.
   (B)   Capacity. Each container shall have a capacity not to exceed 96
gallons, except where dumpsters are used in conjunction with multiple-unit
dwellings and commercial establishments.
   (C)   Lids. Each container shall be water-proof and be equipped with a
tight-fitting cover and shall be maintained, cleaned and kept in a state of
repair which will prevent leakage and noxious odors.
(Prior Code, § 603.03) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.004 STORAGE OF GARBAGE AND RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Preparation for placement in containers. All garbage shall be securely
wrapped or placed in a plastic bag to prevent leakage and littering before it
is placed in garbage containers.
   (B)   Location of garbage and recycling containers. Except on scheduled
collection days, garbage, yard waste, bulky waste and recyclable materials
shall be stored behind the front line of the building for the width of the
property. Garbage, yard waste, bulky waste and recyclable materials may be
placed at the curbside or on the boulevard for collection by a licensed hauler
no earlier than 6:00 pm on the day prior to the day of collection. Any
containers or materials left over from collection shall be removed from the
curbside or boulevard within 12 hours after said collection.
   (C)   Location of dumpsters.
      (1)   Dumpsters for garbage, yard waste and recyclable materials used in
conjunction with multiple-unit dwellings and commercial establishments for the
convenience of the property owner, renters or lessees, shall be stored within
an enclosure. Enclosures shall be of sufficient capacity to contain garbage and
recycling containers, with sufficient additional capacity to store bulky waste
generated by the dwellings or establishments. The design and location of the
enclosure shall be in conformance with city-approved standards. All new
establishments with dumpsters shall construct enclosures prior to receiving a
certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   Dumpsters intended for collecting recyclable materials from the
public for charitable purposes may be located on a paved surface not designated
for parking and must be clearly marked to indicate the type of recyclables
accepted and the name of the charity to receive the resulting revenues.
(Prior Code, § 603.04) (Ord. 486, passed 04-23-1990; Ord. 492, passed 07-08-
1991) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.005 YARD WASTE AND COMPOSTING.
   (A)   Composting. Any person may provide for the handling of certain food
wastes and yard wastes by means of composting. Composting shall be accomplished
above ground in a controlled area allowing for the decomposition of the
material through an aerobic process providing adequate oxygen and moisture. At
no time shall composting attract vectors of disease or create a health hazard
or a nuisance to adjoining properties. Backyard and small compost sites shall
comply with State Pollution Control Agency rules.
   (B)   Disposal. Except for purposes of composting under division (A) above,
it shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of yard waste on private or
public lands located in the city. All yard waste must be disposed of in the
manner prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 603.05) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.006 LICENSE TO HAUL REQUIRED.
   (A)   Licensing requirements.
      (1)   License required.
         (a)   It is unlawful for any person to haul garbage, recyclables,
bulky waste or yard waste without the appropriate license issued by the city
under this chapter unless the person is hauling from their own residence or
commercial establishment in accordance with the provisions of §
50.002(B) of this chapter.
         (b)   Haulers collecting garbage, recyclables, bulky waste, yard
waste, electronic waste or any combination thereof from residential areas,
commercial establishments, multiple-unit dwellings and/or mobile home parks
must be licensed by the city.
      (2)   Conditions of license. Each license shall be applied for, issued
and renewed and may be suspended or revoked, as provided by this chapter, and
each licensee shall comply with all applicable requirements of this chapter and
with the city solid waste management standards, which are authorized to be
adopted by the city, and which are incorporated herein by reference.
      (3)   Application for license. Any person desiring a license to collect
garbage, recyclables, bulky waste, yard waste, electronic waste, or any
combination thereof, shall make application for the same to the City
Administrator upon a form prescribed by the city. The applicant shall set forth
the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   A list of the equipment which the applicant proposes to use in
the collection;
         (c)   The place or places to which the garbage, yard waste and/or
recyclable materials will be hauled;
         (d)   The name of the processing or disposal facility and the manner
in which the garbage, yard waste and/or recyclable materials is to be processed
or disposed of; and
         (e)   A detailed schedule of all proposed maximum pricing, rates,
fees, taxes, or charges to be charged during the licensed period for which the
application is made.
      (4)   Liability insurance. Before a license is issued, the applicant
shall file with the City Administrator evidence that the applicant has in
effect public liability insurance for the hauler’s business and for all
vehicles in the city solid waste management standards.
      (5)   License fee. Before a license is issued, the applicant shall pay to
the city a license fee per the city’s approved fee schedule, which shall
accompany the application.
      (6)   Expiration of license. No license issued shall be for a longer
period than one year, and all licenses shall expire on December 31 of each
year.
      (7)   Suspension or revocation. Licenses may be suspended or revoked by
the Council, after the licensee has been given a reasonable notice and an
opportunity to be heard, for the violation of any provisions of this chapter or
for the violation of any conditions or restrictions in the motion granting the
license or any motion passed by the Council or upon failure of the licensee to
comply with any conditions, order or direction issued by the city. Continued
willful or egregious violations of this chapter by any licensed or unlicensed
hauler of solid waste shall result in fines and/or liquidated damages as deemed
reasonable by the City Council.
   (B)   Operating requirements and restrictions.
      (1)   All licensees. All licensees shall comply with all of the following
requirements and restrictions.
         (a)   Hours and days of operation. No hauler shall operate in a
residential district after 6:00 p.m. or before 7:00 a.m. of any day, and no
hauler shall operate in a residential district on Sundays or legal holidays.
Collection of solid waste for single-family residences shall occur only on
Thursdays, except when Thursday is a legal holiday. In the case of a legal
holiday, the collection will occur the following business day. Slight schedule
changes may be made, with sufficient advance notice by the hauler for adverse
weather conditions or other.
         (b)   Vehicle weight restrictions. All haulers operating on a route in
a residential district shall operate vehicles on city streets within the weight
allowed by M.S. § 169.825, subd. 10, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (c)   Vehicle equipment and maintenance. Licensees shall have covered
watertight, packer-type vehicles or, in the case of recycling, appropriate
container vehicles in good condition and which prevent loss in transit of
liquid or solid cargo. All vehicles shall be kept clean and as free from
offensive odors as possible and shall not be allowed to stand in any street
longer than reasonably necessary to collect garbage, rubbish, recyclable
materials or yard waste.
         (d)   Curbside recycling. Curbside recycling collection must be made
available to all residential customers. The service shall include weekly
collection of all recyclable materials on the same day as garbage collection
for residences. A bi-weekly collection period for recyclable material is
permissible; provided, the hauler provides single-sort service and a collection
container equal to or larger than the provided garbage container.
         (e)   Season. Each licensee shall separately collect and dispose of
yard waste on a regular basis for a yard waste season as determined in the
solid waste management standards.
         (f)   Price. Garbage collection service shall be priced on the basis
of volume consistent with state law. All maximum billing rates shall be
itemized so as to show all individual maximum pricing, rates, fees, taxes, or
charges and the garbage service level unit basis (such as, dollar per size of
cart). The actual maximum rates charged by haulers must conform to the schedule
of pricing, rates, fees, taxes, or charges provided on the license application.
Any increase in maximum rates during the licensed period shall be submitted to
the City Council in writing at least 90 days prior to the proposed
implementation date for any rate increase. Any submission regarding maximum
pricing, rates, fees, taxes, or charges shall include all information necessary
to support the proposed maximum pricing, rates, fees, taxes, or charges, as
well as any other information requested by the city, including details about
the basis for the maximum pricing, rates, fees, taxes, or charges and
comparative pricing, rates, fees, taxes, or charges in surrounding communities.
         (g)   Special service collection. Arrangements shall be made for
customers to accommodate documented physical health concerns, including “back
door” collection if needed.
         (h)   Exhibition of license. Each vehicle for which a hauler’s license
is issued shall exhibit the license in a prominent position on the vehicle.
         (i)   Education and information to customers. All licensees shall
provide information to all customers that may be required by county, state or
federal governments, including requirements to recycle, methods by which to
recycle, disposal and processing locations, tax and fee schedules or
information required in the standards.
      (2)   Dumping facilities. All garbage, bulky waste, electronic waste,
recyclables, source separated organic waste and yard waste shall be dumped or
unloaded only at facilities that comply with state laws and regulations and
county policies and are in conformance with the city solid waste management
standards.
      (3)   Disposal processing/marketing of recyclable materials. Designated
recyclable materials shall be taken to a recyclable material processing center,
an end market for sale or reuse or to an intermediate collection center for
later delivery to a processing center or end market. It is unlawful for any
person to transport for disposal or to dispose of designated recyclables in a
mixed municipal solid waste disposal facility.
      (4)   Additional restrictions for multiple-unit dwelling, commercial
establishment and mobile home park haulers. In addition to the other
requirements of this chapter, haulers servicing commercial establishments,
mobile home parks and multiple-unit dwellings shall comply with the following.
         (a)   Collection of garbage and convenient collection of recyclables
shall occur on a weekly basis, or more frequent, for all multiple-unit
dwelling, commercial establishment and manufactured home park customers. A bi-
weekly collection period for recyclable material is permissible; provided, the
hauler provides single-sort service and a collection container equal to or
larger than the provided garbage container.
         (b)   Collection of bulky wastes will be provided as needed; however,
all bulky waste must be contained in the garbage and recycling enclosure and
may not remain in the enclosure longer than one week.
   (C)   Reporting of garbage, recyclables and yard waste. All licensees shall
report to the city the amount of recyclable materials and yard waste collected.
This shall be done monthly on a form provided by the city. The quantities shall
be reported by tonnage. All licensees that haul recyclables shall report on a
monthly basis to the city those residential customers that do not participate
in the recycling program. Failure to certify accurate reports within the time
specified by the city may be cause for suspension or revocation of a hauling
license.
(Prior Code, § 603.06) (Ord. 486, passed 04-23-1990; Ord. 713, passed 05-19-
2003; Ord. 737, passed 06-24-2004; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 897,
passed 02-09-2015; Ord. 981, passed 11-08-2021; Ord. 1022, passed 12-9-2024)
Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 603.07) (Ord. 486, passed 04-23-1990; Ord. 891, passed 10-27-
2014)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Connection required; exceptions
   
51.002   Application for connections; fees
   
51.003   Construction requirements
   
51.004   Cross-connection control
   
51.005   Leak in service line
   
51.006   Damage to system prohibited
   
51.007   Right of entry
   
51.008   Water shut-off
   
51.009   Emergency water conservation
   
51.010   Non-liability of municipality
   
51.011   Unsafe water connections
Fire Protection Service
   
51.025   Application for service
   
51.026   Manhole
   
51.027   Conditions of permit
   
51.028   Illegal connections
   
51.029   Use of hydrants
Water Meters
   
51.040   Installation
   
51.041   Installation specifications
   
51.042   Testing and repairs
   
51.043   Tampering with meter prohibited
   
51.044   Meter testing on request of owner; fees
Water Rates and Billing Regulations
   
51.055   Authority of Council
   
51.056   Meter reading method
   
51.057   Faulty meters
   
51.058   Estimated bills
   
51.059   Due dates
   
51.060   Late penalties
   
51.061   Delinquent bills; lien
   
51.062   Discontinuance of service; penalties
   
51.063   Prepayments
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 CONNECTION REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Connection required.
      (1)   Existing buildings. Any existing building designed for human
habitation or in which plumbing facilities have been installed to provide
domestic water for human consumption shall be connected to the municipal water
system if the municipal water system is available to the building.
      (2)   New buildings. All new buildings constructed in the city designed
for human habitation or occupancy shall be connected to the municipal water
system for provision of domestic water supply.
   (B)   Exceptions; regulatory provisions.
      (1)   Exceptions. Any existing building which is required to connect to
the municipal water system under division (A) above, but which does not have
access to a municipal water main adjacent to the property on which the building
is built shall not be required to connect to the municipal water system until
such time as a municipal water main is constructed adjacent to the property.
      (2)   Testing required; water quality. The owner of any property exempted
under division (B)(1) above shall be required to sample and test the well
serving the property to ensure that it has coliform organisms (mpn) of less
than one and one-tenth per 100 ml and less than one one-hundredth mg/l of
nitrate nitrogen. Testing shall be required once each year, during the month of
June, and performed by a qualified testing company. The owner of property where
test results do not meet the above requirements shall notify the authority
having jurisdiction within 72 hours of discovery.
      (3)   Treatment equipment. Any well which cannot meet the requirements
listed in division (B)(2) above shall be required to have equipment attached
which is capable of reducing the contaminants listed to acceptable levels for
all faucets used for human consumption. This equipment may be a central unit or
separate units located at each faucet used for consumption. Copies of equipment
specifications and certified test of the units shall be submitted to the city’s
authority having jurisdiction for approval.
(Prior Code, § 906.01) (Ord. 501, passed 01-13-1992; Ord. 503, passed 04-27-
1992; Ord. 636, passed 11-15-1999; Ord. 955, passed 03-11-2019)
§ 51.002 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTIONS; FEES.
   (A)   Application for connection. No person shall make any type of
connection to the municipal water system, except upon making an application
therefor on a form provided by the municipality and receiving a permit issued
by the municipality for such purposes. The application shall include the legal
description of the property to be served, the uses for which the connection is
requested, the size, type and alignment of the service line to be used, and any
other pertinent data, as requested by the authority having jurisdiction. The
person might also have to make application for a right-of-way permit if any
work is located with the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Implied consent. Every person applying for water service and every
owner of property for which any application is made shall be deemed, upon
making the application, to consent to all rules, regulations and rates set
forth in this chapter and such further rules, regulations and rates as may
thereafter be set forth and adopted by the Council pursuant to resolution or
ordinance.
   (C)   Fees. No connection shall be made to the municipal water system by any
person until that person has paid his or her full and proportionate share of
the system, which share shall be payable as follows.
      (1)   For service to property to which service lines have not been
previously run from the street laterals to the property line, the user shall
obtain a corporate shut-off and curb stop from the Director of Public Works/
Parks and Recreation, or his or her designee, upon payment of the associated
fees and costs.
      (2)   For service to property to which service lines have been previously
run to the property line, but which have not been paid for, the user shall pay
in cash or agree to pay charges in the form of special assessments to be levied
against the property to be spread over a number of years coincident with the
maturity requirements of any special improvement bonds sold for the purpose of
financing the construction of the municipal water system serving the property.
The cash payment or assessment charge shall be in the principal amount of not
less than the payments made by or charges placed against comparable properties
for like services in an amount as may be established by the Council. Payment to
the Treasury in the form of a special assessment charge shall be in the form of
equal annual installments together with interest on the unpaid balance, from
year to year, which interest shall be computed at a rate specified by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 906.02) (Ord. 955, passed 03-11-2019)
§ 51.003 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Performance of work. All connections to the municipal water system
shall be performed by a plumber licensed to do plumbing in the municipality or
by a pipelayer licensed to perform utility site installation in the
municipality; except that, nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to
prohibit an individual owner from obtaining a permit and installing the
connection from the property line to the building by their own labor; provided,
however, that, said construction is conducted under the regulations of this
chapter and requirements of the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation
and authority having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Excavations.
      (1)   No excavation shall be undertaken, except by permission of the
municipality and in accordance herewith.
      (2)   All service line installation work or repair or connections to the
municipal water system, including grades, bends and backfilling, shall be
performed to the requirements and satisfaction of the Director of Public Works/
Parks and Recreation, or his or her designee. No work shall be covered or
backfilled until approved by the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation,
or his or her designee.
      (3)   All work and excavating activities shall be protected by
barricades, warning markers and lights and other traffic-control devices
reasonable and suitable to the purpose of protecting public safety.
      (4)   The municipality and its employees shall be held harmless for any
claim or loss as might otherwise arise for damage, loss or injury caused by or
arising by reason of the work being performed.
   (C)   Construction of connections. Before proceeding with the construction,
enlargement, alteration or repair of any water line connecting the municipal
water system to any house or building, the owner or an agent shall fulfill the
following requirements:
      (1)   Obtain from the municipality a water connection permit, the fee for
which shall be per the city’s approved fee schedule. The Director of Public
Works/Parks and Recreation, or his or her designee, shall examine all
applications for water connections before construction; and
      (2)   Whenever a new water connection is constructed, the owner shall pay
to the municipality a trunk, source and storage contribution as established,
from time to time, by resolution of the City Council. The contributions shall
be reserved solely for the purpose of funding construction, replacement,
modification or major maintenance of water trunk lines, wells, towers or
reservoirs and the debt service thereon as specifically authorized by the City
Council.
   (D)   Requirements. There shall be installed in every connection to the
municipal water system one stop and waste valve which shall be installed on
both sides of the water meter so that the water may be turned off and the meter
and house plumbing entirely drained. All service pipes connected to the
municipal system shall meet material and installation standards set forth by
the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation and authority having
jurisdiction.
   (E)   Final inspection. After the construction, enlargement or alteration is
complete, the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation, or his or her
designee, shall be notified for the final inspection. It shall be unlawful to
cover any connecting line until an inspection has been made and the connection
and the work incident thereto has been approved by the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 906.03) (Ord. 955, passed 03-11-2019)
§ 51.004 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   Whenever any premises are connected to the municipal water system, there
shall be maintained a complete physical separation between the municipal water
supply system and the private water supply system so that it is impossible to
intentionally or unintentionally allow any water produced by a private system
to be introduced in the supply line from the municipal system.
(Prior Code, § 906.05)
§ 51.005 LEAK IN SERVICE LINE.
   (A)   After the initial connection has been made to the water main, the
owner, occupant or other user of the premises shall be liable for, but the city
may perform, in its sole discretion and subject to the receipt of permission
and a right of entry agreement, except in cases of emergency affecting the
public health, safety and welfare, all leak-associated repairs between the
water main into the structure, 12 feet above the finished floor, excluding the
shut off valves on both the house and street side. It shall be in the sole
discretion of the city to repair or replace the leaking water service line. The
city may, in its sole discretion and subject to the receipt of permission and
any right of entry agreement, except in cases of emergency affecting the public
health, safety and welfare, also repair or replacement of any broken, leaking
or malfunctioning curb stop boxes. The repairs by the city shall be funded by
an additional utility fee. The utility fee shall be as set forth in the city’s
approved fee schedule and may set forth any eligibility requirements and opt-
out provisions therein. This service shall be provided to all single-family,
duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes and townhouses. Large apartment complexes and
commercial properties are not included in this policy. For any repairs
performed by the city, the city shall not be responsible for the restoration of
the excavation site, including, but not limited to, seeding or placement of
sod, trees, shrubs, flowers, underground irrigation or any other improvements
not specifically mentioned herein which mav be disturbed, destroyed or removed
during the repair or replacement of the water service. The municipality shall
provide, in its sole discretion, only the initial repair or replacement of any
impervious surface, should it be necessary in the performance of the repair of
a leak or break of the property’s service. Responsibility for maintenance and
protection of the curb stop box shall be that of the owner, occupant or other
user of the premises, and it shall be the responsibility of the party to
maintain the curb stop box at a height as will ensure that it will remain above
the finished grade of the land or property. Nothing herein shall prevent the
municipality from recovering the cost of repairs from the owner, occupant or
other user of the premises or any other party in the event it can be
established that the parties were the cause of the damages requiring the
repairs.
   (B)   Any owner, occupant or user of a premises who shall discover a leak in
a service line to the premises shall notify the municipality within 24 hours.
Any water wasted due to failure of the person to comply with this regulation
may be estimated by the City Administrator, or his or her designee, and be
charged for against the user at the premises at the established rate.
(Prior Code, § 906.06) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 955, passed 03-11-
2019)
§ 51.006 DAMAGE TO SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, use, alter or damage any
water line or connection of any part thereof or any fire hydrant, curb or valve
box or street valves or connection of any type or part thereof without
authority of the municipality. Any person who so damages shall be liable for
the damage or loss to the municipality caused thereby.
(Prior Code, § 906.07) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The municipality, represented by an authorized employee or agent, shall have
the right to enter and be admitted to any lands and property in the
municipality for the purpose of inspection of materials, plumbing work and
fixtures of all kinds by or in connection with the water and sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 906.10)
§ 51.008 WATER SHUT-OFF.
   (A)   Requests for shut-off. Requests for turning off water must be made, in
writing, ten days prior to the time shut-off is requested, otherwise, the owner
of the premises shall be liable for water usage until a meter reading is taken.
   (B)   Shut-off by city; grounds. Water service to a property may be shut off
by the city for the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation of a provision of this code relating to the operation,
maintenance or connection to the water system;
      (2)   Fraud or misrepresentation by an owner or occupant in connection
with an application for service; and/or
      (3)   Failure of an owner or occupant to pay rates and charges for water
service when due.
   (C)   Shut-off procedures. If the City Administrator determines that grounds
exist for shutting off water service, the City Administrator must notify the
owner or occupant of the city’s intent to shut off by mailed written notice not
less than ten days prior to the date of shut-off. The notice must state the
reason for shutting off the water service, the date that the water shut-off
will be effective and that the owner or occupant may request a hearing before
the City Council and that at the hearing, the owner or occupant may present
testimony as to why the service should not be shut off. The request for a
hearing must be presented in writing to the City Administrator not later than
the tenth day after mailing of the notice. A request from either the owner or
occupant is sufficient to require the hearing. If a request for a hearing is
received, the City Administrator may not shut off service until the hearing has
been held and then only at the direction of the City Council. If a request for
hearing is not timely received, the City Administrator may shut off the water
services as of the date specified in the notice.
   (D)   Emergency shut-off. The procedure in division (C) above does not apply
to water shut off in case of an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 906.11) (Ord. 551, passed 04-10-1995; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010)
§ 51.009 EMERGENCY WATER CONSERVATION.
   The Council may impose emergency regulations pertaining to the conservation
of water by resolution of the Council and by giving notice by publication or by
posting in the City Hall and at such public places as the Council may direct. A
water sprinkling ban may be implemented by the Director of Public Works/Parks
and Recreation after notification of the City Administrator and the Mayor. The
lawn sprinkling ban may be implemented for the months of May, June, July,
August and September by specifying dates and times.
(Prior Code, § 906.12) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 51.010 NON-LIABILITY OF MUNICIPALITY.
   The municipality shall not be held liable at any time for any deficiency or
failure in the supply of water to a customer whether the same be occasioned by
shutting off the water for repairs or connections or for any cause whatever.
(Prior Code, § 906.14)
§ 51.011 UNSAFE WATER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   There shall be no physical connection between any public water supply
system intended for potable or domestic use and any system, equipment, or
device that may serve as a source of contamination, unless protected by a
properly maintained backflow preventer approved by the commissioner. Backflow
prevention for fire sprinkler systems must comply with American Water Works
Association Standard M14, section 6.3, as referenced in part 4715.21.10.
(M.S. § 144.383)
   (B)   Annual testing of all backflow preventers is required and must be
completed by a state-licensed plumber and results submitted to the Director of
Public Works/Parks and Recreation or his or her designee, as set forth in Minn.
Rules part 4720.0025, as it may be amended from time to time,.
   (C)   Failure to comply with these provisions shall result in fines as
outlined in the adopted fee schedule.
Penalty, see §
51.999
FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE
§ 51.025 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Any applicant, owner, occupant or user who shall apply for a connection to
the municipal water system, which connection shall be open at all times for the
purpose of fire protection, shall apply, in writing, to the municipality giving
detailed information as to the size of the main required and location served by
the connection.
(Prior Code, § 906.08)
§ 51.026 MANHOLE.
   The applicant shall furnish and install, at a point of connection to the
municipal main, a shut-off valve and a manhole, or if the same be installed by
the municipality, the cost thereof shall be paid by the applicant. The manhole
shall, at all times, be open for inspection purposes to municipal personnel,
but maintenance and cost of repair of the valve and tap shall be the sole
responsibility of the applicant desiring the service.
(Prior Code, § 906.08)
§ 51.027 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   The permit may be granted by the municipality upon such conditions as may be
deemed by the Council to be in the best interests of the municipality,
including the installation of any valve and meter for water use detection
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 906.08)
§ 51.028 ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person having such an open main for the purpose
of fire protection to make any connection to the main for any purpose other
than the one noted in the original request to the Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 906.08) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.029 USE OF HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain water from a municipal water
system hydrant, except at a location specified by the municipality and only
after obtaining a permit from the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 906.08) Penalty, see §
51.999
WATER METERS
§ 51.040 INSTALLATION.
   Before any water conveyed through the municipal water system shall be used
or utilized on the land or premises by any person, the city shall first install
a water meter with remote reader that will accurately measure the water
consumed on the premises, except and unless the installation shall, be exempt
by the municipality. The meter with remote reader shall be the property of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 906.04) (Ord. 955, passed 03-11-2019; Ord. 969, passed 12-09-
2019)
§ 51.041 INSTALLATION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All water meters shall be installed at the point the water service
enters the structure and, if possible, this location shall be next to a floor
drain. All remote readers shall be installed on the exterior of the structure
at a point designated by the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation or
his or her designee.
   (B)   All water meters installed shall be accessible to the Director of
Public Works/Parks and Recreation, or his or her designee, at any reasonable
hour of any business day, and the refusal of admission by any owner or occupant
of any premises wherein a water meter is installed after reasonable notice
shall constitute a violation of this chapter. In an emergency, the municipality
may require immediate entry onto the property by municipal employees or agents.
(Prior Code, § 906.04) (Ord. 803, passed 04-14-2008; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010; Ord. 955, passed 03-11-2019; Ord. 969, passed 12-09-2019)
§ 51.042 TESTING AND REPAIRS.
   (A)   All applications for the maintenance and repair of water meters shall
be made to the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation, or his or her
designee.
   (B)   The meters shall be tested and repaired, from time to time, as is
necessary to insure accurate measuring of the flow of water; except, that
whenever a meter has been damaged due to negligence on the part of persons
other than municipal employees, the owner, occupant or user of the premises or
such other persons desiring the use of the water shall reimburse the
municipality for the expense of testing, repairing or replacing any meter. Upon
failure to reimburse the municipality within a reasonable time and upon demand
therefor, the water service and supply to the premises may be shut off or
discontinued as determined to be in the best interest of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 906.04) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 955, passed 03-11-
2019; Ord. 969, passed 12-09-2019)
§ 51.043 TAMPERING WITH METER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, bypass or in any manner
whatsoever interfere with the proper use and functioning of any water meter
within the municipality. Whenever any water meter is found to be broken or
otherwise damaged in any manner, the condition shall be prima facie evidence of
a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 906.04) (Ord. 969, passed 12-09-2019) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.044 METER TESTING ON REQUEST OF OWNER; FEES.
   Whenever a water user questions the accuracy of a meter and desires that the
meter be tested, they shall pay a fee as established and contained in the
city’s fee schedule, if the meter tests accurately within a range of -3% to
+1.5%. If it is not within this range, no charge will be made for testing, and
an adjustment on the water bill will be made for testing and an adjustment on
the water bill will be made for the period of time that the meter is assumed to
be inaccurate as determined by the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 906.04) (Ord. 955, passed 03-11-2019; Ord. 969, passed 12-09-
2019)
WATER RATES AND BILLING
REGULATIONS
§ 51.055 AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL.
   The Council shall have the authority to prescribe the rates to be charged
for water service to the customer and may prescribe the date of billing, length
of time and such further rules and regulations relative to the use and
operation of such systems as it may deem necessary, from time to time. The
water rates and any surcharges shall be established by ordinance of the City
Council, from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 906.13) (Ord. 576, passed 05-13-1996)
§ 51.056 METER READING METHOD.
   The municipality may provide a system of water meter reading by post card,
meter reader or any other method deemed suitable. The municipality may also
establish billing areas or districts and provide for the reading of meters and
billing of charges by calendar quarters, monthly quarters of the periodic
intervals as the Council shall determine suitable and necessary.
(Prior Code, § 906.13)
§ 51.057 FAULTY METERS.
   If a meter fails to register or accurately measure the water, the charge for
water consumed shall be paid for at the established rate based upon past
average billings as determined by the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 906.13) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 51.058 ESTIMATED BILLS.
   Any water obtained by any person from the municipal water system which is
not paid for by the customer or user thereof by payment of water charges or
rates determined by a meter shall be charged at and paid for by the consumer or
user upon an estimate of the quantity of water used as computed at the
established rate for such purpose or use; except that, the Council may waive
payment of the charge where deemed by the Council to be in the best interest of
the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 906.13)
§ 51.059 DUE DATES.
   Water consumption charges to consumers shall become due and payable
quarterly or such periodic intervals as determined by the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 906.13) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 51.060 LATE PENALTIES.
   The Council shall establish, by resolution, the penalties and charges as
deemed appropriate for estimating water usage bills and late payments of bills.
(Prior Code, § 906.13)
§ 51.061 DELINQUENT BILLS; LIEN.
   In the event a water or sewer bill is unpaid by the due date, a reminder
notice shall be sent to the customer. If payment in full is not received by the
city within ten days after the reminder notice is sent, the bill shall be
considered delinquent, and the service may be discontinued as provided in §
51.008 of this chapter and the Council may cause the charges noted in the
billing to become a lien against the property served by certifying to the
county the amount of the delinquent bill.
(Prior Code, § 906.13) (Ord. 551, passed 04-10-1995)
§ 51.062 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; PENALTIES.
   Whenever any service has been discontinued for non-payment of charges or
bills or for disregard of any rule or regulations or for any other purposes, it
shall not be resumed, except upon payment of the charges or bills accrued
together with interest thereon in the amount of 10% per annum or compliance
with the rules and regulations previously violated and payment to the
municipality of a restoration fee per the city’s approved fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 906.13)
§ 51.063 PREPAYMENTS.
   (A)   Prepayments. All moneys previously received by the municipality as
prepayments shall continue to be reflected on the user’s account as a
prepayment until the user vacates the premises, at which time it shall be
applied to the final bill, as regulated by division (B) below or, should the
user elect to do so, the prepayment may be credited to the fee established by §
51.040 of this chapter when the user elects to have a meter with remote
installed on the premises.
   (B)   Application of prepayment funds.
      (1)   The prepayment for water service made to the municipality as
provided for by division (A) above and paid prior to the installation of the
water meter shall be applied to the final utility bill of the person prepaying
the money whenever the person shall vacate the premises and the water service
is disconnected and the meter returned in good condition and not damaged and
there has been no election to have the prepayment credited to the fee
established by §
51.040 of this chapter.
      (2)   Should the amount of the prepayment exceed the amount of the final
bill for water service, the difference shall be returned to the person
prepaying the money; provided that, there are no delinquent or unpaid water or
other utility bills or charges accumulated to the date of the termination of
such service.
      (3)   If there are unpaid bills or charges, these must first be deducted
from the prepayment.
      (4)   Whenever any consumer shall become delinquent in payment of any
utility bill, the municipality shall be entitled to deduct from the prepayment
the amount of the unpaid bill and may discontinue service to the customer until
the depleted prepayment sum shall be increased to the original amount required
under this chapter.
      (5)   The liability of the municipality for the return of the prepayment,
however, shall be limited to the funds that are available in the Water
Department and shall not constitute a general obligation of the municipality.
      (6)   If an owner shall sell or transfer the premises to another person
and fail to apply for the refund, the purchaser thereof shall be entitled to
the return of the prepayment in lieu of the original applicant upon
satisfactory proof of transfer of title and possession of the premises at least
six months prior to application for the refund or if the prior owner shall have
failed to apply for the refund. The refund, however, shall be subject to all
other restrictions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 906.13)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall do or commit any act that is forbidden by the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 906.15)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   System established
   
52.002   Connection with system required
   
52.003   Permit requirements
   
52.004   Construction requirements
   
52.005   Prohibited discharges; interceptors
   
52.006   Industrial wastes
   
52.007   Preliminary treatment facilities
   
52.008   Control manhole
   
52.009   Right of entry
   
52.010   Measurements and tests
   
52.011   Tampering with system prohibited
   
52.012   Maintenance and repairs
   
52.013   Certificate of inflow and infiltration compliance
   
52.014   Residential sewer lateral separation projects
Storm Water
   
52.025   General
   
52.026   Definition and method
   
52.027   Disconnection
   
52.028   Inspections
   
52.029   Future inspections
   
52.030   Surcharge
Sewer Use Rates and Billing
   
52.045   Rates established
   
52.046   Payment of charges
   
52.047   Industrial waste
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 SYSTEM ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a municipal sanitary sewer system for the city
which shall be operated as a public utility and convenience from which revenues
will be derived, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 907.01)
§ 52.002 CONNECTION WITH SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   Existing buildings. Any existing building for human habitation or in
which a toilet or other plumbing facility for the disposal of human waste is
installed and located on property adjacent to a sewer main shall be connected
to the municipal sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   New buildings. All new buildings constructed within the city shall
connect to the sanitary sewer system for the disposal of all sanitary wastes.
(Prior Code, § 907.02)
§ 52.003 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. Before any person shall connect to the municipal
sanitary sewer system, the person must obtain a permit pursuant to division (B)
below or be subject to the penalties authorized in §
52.999 of this chapter.
   (B)   Application for permit. Persons connecting to the municipal sanitary
sewer system shall apply to the City Administrator for a permit. The
application shall be made on blanks furnished by the City Administrator and
shall be accompanied by plans, specifications and any other information
required by the authority having jurisdiction, together with a permit fee per
the city’s approved fee schedule.
   (C)   Issuance. Permits for the connections will be issued only to a person
duly licensed to make the connections under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 907.03) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 52.004 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Supervision of sewer connections. The authority having jurisdiction
shall supervise all sewer connections made to the municipal sanitary sewer
system and excavations for installing or repairing the connections.
   (B)   Reinspections. When reinspection is necessary, a fee for such
reinspection shall be paid. All costs and expenses incident to installation and
connection shall be borne by the owner, and the owner shall indemnify the
municipality for any loss or damage that may, directly or indirectly, be
occasioned by the installation of the sewer connection, including restoring
streets and street surfaces.
   (C)   Construction specifications.
      (1)   Materials. All pipe shall be cast iron soil pipe conforming to
A.S.T.M. Standard Specification A-74-2009, vitrified glazed clay sewer pipe
conforming to A.S.T.M. Standard Specification C-700-2011, asbestos cement sewer
pipe, conforming to A.S.T.M. Standard Specifications C-428-2005 or PVC plastic
sewer pipe, conforming to A.S.T.M. Standard Specification D-1785 or D-2665,
unless other material is preapproved by the Director of Public Works/Parks and
Recreation. All pipe used shall be a four-inch diameter pipe.
      (2)   State Plumbing Code incorporated by reference. There is hereby
adopted and incorporated by reference, the State Plumbing Code, as amended. All
sanitary sewer construction and material shall be in accordance with the
provisions of said code.
      (3)   Joints and connections.
         (a)   Cast iron soil pipe. Hub and spigot shall have a compression
type gasket, or hubless joints will be made with fittings conforming to
C.I.S.P.I. Standard 301-2009.
         (b)   Vitrified glazed clay sewer pipe. Compression joints for
vitrified glazed clay pipe will conform to A.S.T.M. Standard Specification
C425-2004, relating to rubber ring-sealing elements, rubber for other than
ring-sealing elements, plastic components or metallic components.
         (c)   Asbestos cement sewer pipe. Joints for asbestos cement sewer
pipe shall be made by use of the manufacturer’s joint, which shall include an
asbestos cement sleeve, together with rubber rings which shall form a tight and
flexible joint.
      (4)   Grades. Unless otherwise authorized, all house sewers shall have a
grade of not less than one-eighth inch per foot. A grade of one-fourth inch per
foot should be used wherever practical. The person to whom the permit is issued
shall check grades before construction proceeds. Wherever possible, the
connecting sewer shall join the building at an elevation which is below the
basement floor of the building.
      (5)   Alignment. No connecting sewer shall contain bends or a combination
of bends which, at any time, exceeds 45 degrees, except where clean-outs are
constructed at such points and in a manner as directed by the authority having
jurisdiction.
      (6)   Trenching and backfilling.
         (a)   All excavating shall be open trench work unless otherwise
authorized by the authority having jurisdiction. The foundation in the trench
shall be formed in such manner as to prevent any subsequent settling of the
pipes. If the foundation is good, firm earth, the earth shall be pared or
molded to give full support to the lower one-third of each pipe. Bell holes
shall be dug. Care must be exercised in backfilling below the centerline of the
pipe in order to give it proper support.
         (b)   Backfilling shall be placed in layers and solidly tamped or
packed up to one foot above the pipe. Backfilling shall not be done until the
section to be backfilled has been inspected and approved by the authority
having jurisdiction. All excavation work must be done in such a manner as to
protect workers from cave-ins.
      (7)   Use of old house sewers. Old house sewers or portions thereof may
be approved for use by the authority having jurisdiction. The authority having
jurisdiction may request that the old sewer be excavated for the purpose of
facilitating inspection. No cesspool or septic tank shall be connected to the
municipal sanitary sewer system.
      (8)   Existing septic tanks to be filled. Upon applying for a permit to
connect to the municipal sanitary sewer system, the applicant shall agree, when
applicable, to pump out the contents of any cesspool or septic tank then
located on applicant’s property and to refill same with non-combustible and
non- deteriorating fill to the lot level. The owner or an agent shall have the
septic tank and/or cesspool pumped and filled within seven days from the time
said sewer connection is completed.
      (9)   Connections at “Y” only. Every connecting sewer shall be connected
to the municipal sewer system at the “Y” or sewer connection stubs designated
for the property served by the connection, except where otherwise expressly
authorized by the authority having jurisdiction, which authorization shall be
in writing. Connections so authorized by the authority having jurisdiction
shall be made only under the authority having jurisdiction’s direct supervision
and in such manner as may be directed.
      (10)   Tunneling. Tunneling is permissible in yards, courts or driveways
or any building site upon receipt of written approval of the authority having
jurisdiction.
      (11)   Independent systems. The drainage and plumbing system of each new
building and new work installed in an existing building shall be separate from,
and independent of, that of any other building.
      (12)   Restoration of rights-of-way. No connection to the municipal
sanitary sewer system shall be finally approved until all streets, pavements,
curbs and boulevards or other public improvements thereon have been restored to
their former condition to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works/
Parks and Recreation.
      (13)   Street cuts. All street cuts are hereby regulated by §§
152.001 through
152.004 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 907.04) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Prohibited substances. It is unlawful to discharge any of the
following described waters or wastes into the municipal sanitary sewer system:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing more than 100 parts per million by
weight of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the Public Works/Sanitary Sewer
Department;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having pH lower than six or higher than nine
or having any other property to corrode or abrade, cause materials to be
deposited or attached to the walls of sewers or having any other property
capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of
the sewage works;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant;
      (8)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance; and
      (9)   Any wastes prohibited by the Metropolitan Waste Control Commission.
   (B)   Interceptors. Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided
when, in the opinion of the authority having jurisdiction, they are necessary
for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excess amounts or
any inflammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that, the
interceptors shall not be required for private dwelling units from which only
normal wastes are discharged. The grease and oil interceptors shall be of
substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily removable covers
which, when bolted in place, shall be gas-tight and water-tight. All grease,
oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner, at the owner’s
expense.
(Prior Code, § 907.06) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.006 INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge into the municipal sanitary sewer system
any industrial wastes unless the prior approval of the authority having
jurisdiction is obtained. The authority having jurisdiction shall approve the
discharge of industrial wastes when, in the authority having jurisdiction’s
opinion, the proposed wastes will not be of an unusual amount or character.
(Prior Code, § 907.07) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.007 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discharge criteria. The admission into the public sewers of any waters
or wastes having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts
per million by weight, containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids or having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
daily sewage flow of the municipality shall be subject to the review and
approval of the authority having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Provision for pretreatment. The owner shall provide, at owner’s
expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million and
the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight; or
      (2)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of the waters or
wastes.
   (C)   Approval of facilities. Plans, specifications and any other pertinent
information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be
submitted for the approval of the Council. No construction of the facilities
shall be commenced until proper approvals are obtained in writing.
   (D)   Maintenance of facilities. Where preliminary treatment facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 907.08) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.008 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   The owner of any property served by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes shall install a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. The manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the authority having jurisdiction. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at owner’s expense and shall be
maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 907.09) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.009 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The authority having jurisdiction and other duly authorized employees of the
city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall, at reasonable
times, be permitted to enter upon all properties connected to the municipal
sanitary sewer system for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in connection with the operation of the municipal sanitary
sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 907.10)
§ 52.010 MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS.
   All measurement tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made shall be determined in accordance with
methods employed by the state’s Pollution Control Agency and shall be
determined at the control manhole provided or upon suitable samples taken at
said control manhole and at the expense of the owner of the property
contributing the water and wastes.
(Prior Code, § 907.11)
§ 52.011 TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any part of the municipal sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 907.12) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.012 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS.
   Each property owner shall be responsible for maintaining an unobstructed
sewer line from the building located on the premises to the sewer main, and
each property owner shall be responsible for all repairs to that portion of the
sewer line between the building and the sewer main.
(Prior Code, § 907.13)
§ 52.013 CERTIFICATE OF INFLOW AND INFILTRATION COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Required. No person shall sell, advertise for sale, give or transact a
change in title or property ownership of real property with one or more
buildings or structures, without first either obtaining a certificate of inflow
and infiltration (I&I) compliance from the city or fully complying with
division (E) below. No permanent occupancy for a new/remodeled structure will
be issued without a certificate of I&I compliance unless an escrow agreement is
in place with the city.
   (B)   Application and fees.
      (1)   Unless the property owner already has a certificate of I&I
compliance for a property, the owner or owner’s representative is required to
apply for a certificate and complete an inspection thereof before the property
is offered for sale, gifted or transferred, and before the owner or owner’s
representative enters into any contract for deed or other transaction changing
the party responsible for the property. If the property owner already has a
certificate of I&I compliance, but it is more than one year old, a sump pump
inspection is still required for all properties containing sump pumps pursuant
to this section.
      (2)   At the time of application, the applicant for either a certificate
of I&I compliance or a sump pump inspection shall pay the appropriate
application fee. The fees shall be set in the city’s fee schedule.
   (C)   Inspection. The applicant for a certificate of I&I compliance or sump
pump inspection is responsible for providing an inspection of the property
after making application and payment of fees. An inspection shall be made
either by the city or by a licensed plumber to determine whether the property
use is in accordance with city sanitary sewer service regulations, as provided
in this chapter. The entire property and all buildings on the property shall be
made available for inspection.
   (D)   Compliance and expiration.
      (1)   Upon inspection, when the property use is in accordance with city
sanitary sewer services regulations, a new certificate of I&I compliance will
be issued by the city.
      (2)   A certificate of I&I compliance is valid to be used for the
transfer of property.
      (3)   The certificate of I&I compliance must be conspicuously displayed
on the premises at all times when the property is being shown for sale and the
owner is responsible for informing any potential buyers, gift recipients or
other persons to whom it intends to transfer title as to its receipt of the
certificate of I&I compliance.
   (E)   Correction notice. If an inspection discloses that use of a property
is not in accordance with city sanitary sewer service regulations, a correction
notice may be issued by the city permitting the transfer of property,
providing:
      (1)   An agreement by the owner or owner’s representative has been
executed with the city, whereby the owner or owner’s representative agrees to
complete corrections to the property necessary to bring it within compliance of
the city sanitary sewer service regulations within 60 days of the transfer of
property; and
      (2)   (a)   A security to ensure completion of any corrections to the
property must be posted with the closing agent in the form of an escrow, or
with the city when a closing agent is not involved, at the time of property
transfer or closing. The security shall be in an amount at least equal to 125%
of the retail value of the work necessary for compliance with this section. The
escrow must be fully maintained until a certificate of I&I compliance is
issued. A correction notice shall not be issued for more than 180 days
following the first inspection of the property, but it may be extended for
additional periods up to 180 days each by the City Administrator or his or her
designee.
         (b)   The owner (or transferor) and any real estate agents involved in
the transaction are responsible for disclosing the correction notice to the
transferee and all other persons or entities involved in the transaction. The
responsibility for repairing any non-conformance with the sanitary sewer
service regulations runs with the land and not only rests with the owner or
transferor, but is also an obligation of the transferee of the property. If
repairs are not completed within one year of the first inspection, the
inspection becomes invalid and the process starts again, which includes paying
the applicable inspection fee.
   (F)   Repeated inspection. Upon inspection, when the property use is not
legal in accordance with city’s sanitary sewer service regulations, the owner
shall be entitled to a second inspection to be scheduled within 90 days of the
original inspection. If, as a result of this inspection, the city inspector
determines (or a licensed plumber certifies and the certified videotape is
determined by the city to be compliant) that all violations of city sanitary
sewer regulations have been corrected, the city shall immediately issue a
certificate of I&I compliance.
(Ord. 967, passed 10-28-2019)
§ 52.014 RESIDENTIAL SEWER LATERAL SEPARATION PROJECTS.
   Due to past construction practices and the individualized sewer lateral
requirement contained in §
52.004(C)(11), there are instances where residential property owners are
required to incur substantial costs to separate an existing sewer service
lateral that is shared with one or more nearby properties. Because the City
Council finds that such sewer lateral separation projects provide a significant
public benefit and are in the best interests of the city's overall sanitary
sewer network, and therefore wants to encourage such projects, it hereby
authorizes a cost-sharing program through which the City Council may, via
resolution and on an individualized basis, authorize reimbursement to a
homeowner for one-half of the costs associated with such a project, provided,
however, that in no event shall the city's share exceed $7,500 for any one
project. In order to qualify for city cost-sharing under this section, the
following conditions must be met:
   (A)   The homeowner, not the city, must contract for the work and obtain all
duly required permits;
   (B)   The work is performed to accommodate an existing home and not new
construction;
   (C)   The work must be performed satisfactorily and in accordance with all
state and local regulations;
   (D)   The homeowner requesting reimbursement must not have owned the
property when the shared sewer lateral was originally installed; and
   (E)   The project for which reimbursement is sought was completed after
January 1, 2022.
(Ord. 992, passed 07-25-2022)
STORM WATER
§ 52.025 GENERAL.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged into the city
sewer system, either directly or indirectly, any roof, surface, ground, sump
pump, footing tile, or other natural precipitation, or water discharged from
any air conditioning unit or system.
(Prior Code, § 907.06) (Ord. 969, passed 12-09-2019) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.026 DEFINITION AND METHOD.
   (A)   Dwellings and other buildings and structures which require, because of
the infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces and the like, a sump
pump system to discharge excess water, shall have a permanently installed
discharge line which shall not at any time discharge water into the sanitary
sewer system. A permanent installation shall be one which provides for year-
round discharge capability to either the outside of the dwelling, building or
structure, or is connected to the city storm sewer or discharges on the surface
within the property or drainage easement.
   (B)   It shall consist of a rigid discharge line, without valving or quick
connections for altering the path of discharge. Discharge directly into the
street or street guttering system is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 907.06) (Ord. 969, passed 12-09-2019) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.027 DISCONNECTION.
   Any person, firm or corporation having a roof, surface, ground, sump pump,
footing or air conditioning unit or system now connected and/or discharging
into the sanitary sewer system shall disconnect and/or remove same by 11-01-
2004. Any disconnects or openings in the sanitary sewer shall require a
plumbing permit and must be closed or repaired in an effective manner as
approved by the city’s authority having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 907.06) (Ord. 969, passed 12-09-2019) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.028 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Every person owning improved real estate that discharges into the
city’s sanitary sewer system shall allow for inspections of the building(s)
located on the property to confirm that there is no sump pump or other
prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   The inspections may be conducted by employees or designated
representatives of the city or, if the property owner so chooses, by a licensed
plumber hired by the property owner.
   (C)   Any person refusing to allow his or her property to be inspected
within 14 days of the date city employee(s) or their designated representative
(s) are denied admittance to the property must either hire a licensed plumber
to inspect the property and submit the licensed plumber’s report within 30 days
of the date the city employees or their designated representative(s) were
denied admittance to the property, or shall become subject to the surcharge
hereinafter provided for.
   (D)   The city may also obtain an administrative search warrant in order to
enter the property to inspect any discharge into the sanitary sewer system and
to determine compliance with this code.
   (E)   Any owner of a property found to be discharging storm water into the
city sewer system, either directly or indirectly shall make the necessary
changes and furnish proof of the changes to the city within 60 days of the
finding of non-compliance, unless such other time is agreed to by the city, in
order to comply with this code.
(Prior Code, § 907.06) (Ord. 969, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 52.029 FUTURE INSPECTIONS.
   At any future time, if the city has reason to suspect that an illegal
connection may exist in a premises, the owner, by written notice shall comply
with the provisions of §
52.028 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 907.06) (Ord. 969, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 52.030 SURCHARGE.
   A surcharge shall be imposed and added to every sewer billing to property
owners that are not in compliance with this section. The surcharge shall be set
by City Council resolution. The surcharge shall be added for the entire quarter
until the property is in compliance.
(Prior Code, § 907.06) (Ord. 969, passed 12-9-2019)
SEWER USE RATES AND BILLING
§ 52.045 RATES ESTABLISHED.
   Rates and charges for the use and service of the sanitary sewer system shall
be established by ordinance of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 907.14) (Ord. 577, passed 05-13-1996)
§ 52.046 PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   The charges imposed hereunder shall become due and payable quarterly on a
calendar schedule prepared by the Council. Unpaid sewer use charges may entitle
the municipality to discontinue water service to the user.
(Prior Code, § 907.14)
§ 52.047 INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   (A)   Authorization. The Metropolitan Waste Control Commission, a
metropolitan commission organized and existing under the laws of the state (the
“Commission”), in order to receive and retain grants in compliance with the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq., as amended from time to time, and regulations thereunder (the “Act”),
has determined to impose an industrial user sewer strength charge upon users of
the metropolitan disposal system (as defined in M.S. § 473.121, subd. 24, as it
may be amended from time to time, to recover operation and maintenance costs of
treatment works attributable to the strength of the discharge of industrial
waste, such sewer strength charge being in addition to the charge based upon
the volume of discharge. In order for the city to pay such costs based upon
strength of industrial discharge and allocated to it each year by the
Commission, it is hereby found, determined and declared to be necessary to
establish sewer strength charges and a formula for the computation thereof for
all industrial users receiving waste treatment services within or served by the
city. Furthermore, M.S. § 444.075, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, empowers the city to make the sewer charge a charge against the owner,
lessee, occupant or all of them and certify unpaid charges to the County
Auditor as a tax lien against the property served.
   (B)   Strength charges. For the purpose of paying the costs allocated to the
city each year by the Commission that are based upon the strength of discharge
of all industrial users receiving waste treatment services within or served by
the city, there is hereby approved, adopted and established, in addition to the
sewer charge based upon the volume of discharge, a sewer charge upon each
person receiving waste treatment services within or served by the city, based
upon strength of industrial waste discharged into the sewer system of the city
(the “strength charge”).
   (C)   Strength charge formula. For the purpose of computation of the
strength charge established by division (B) above, there is hereby established,
approved and adopted in compliance with the Act the same strength charge
formula designated in Res. 76-172 of the Commission, dated 06-15-1976, adopted
by the governing body, a copy of the resolution on file in the office of the
City Administrator, the formula being based upon pollution qualities and
difficulty of disposal of the sewage produced through an evaluation of
pollution qualities and quantities in excess of an annual average based on the
proportionate costs of operation and maintenance of waste treatment services
provided by the Commission.
   (D)   Strength charge payment. It is hereby approved, adopted and
established that the strength charge established by division (C) above shall be
paid by each industrial user receiving waste treatment services and subject
thereto before 20 days next succeeding the date of billing thereof to the user
by or on behalf of the city, and the payment thereof shall be deemed to be
delinquent if not so paid to the billing entity before the date. Furthermore,
it is hereby established, approved and adopted that if the payment is not paid
before the date, an industrial user shall pay an interest charge as determined
by the Metropolitan Waste Commission.
   (E)   Tax lien. As provided by M.S. § 444.075, subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, it is hereby approved, adopted and established that if
payment of the strength charge established by division (C) above is not paid
before the 60 days next succeeding the date of billing thereof to the
industrial user by or on behalf of the city, the delinquent sewer strength
charge, plus accrued interest established pursuant to division (D) above shall
be deemed to be a charge against the owner, lessee and occupant of the property
served, and the city or its agent shall certify the unpaid delinquent balance
to the County Auditor with taxes against the property served for collection as
other taxes are collected; provided, however, that, the certification shall not
preclude the city or its agent from recovery of the delinquent sewer strength
charge and interest thereon under any other available remedy.
(Prior Code, § 907.14) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   Any violation of §§
52.025 through
52.030 of this chapter is a misdemeanor and is subject to penalties provided
for such violations under provision of §§
130.001 and
130.002 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 907.06) (Ord. 969, passed 12-09-2019)
CHAPTER 53: SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY
Section
   
53.001   Title
   
53.002   Findings and determinations
   
53.003   Definitions
   
53.004   Surface water management fee
   
53.005   Adjustments of fees
   
53.006   Excluded lands
   
53.007   Supplying information
   
53.008   Estimated charges
   
53.009   Billings and collections
   
53.010   Use of revenues
   
53.011   Penalties and remedies for delinquency or default in paying bills
§ 53.001 TITLE.
   The municipal surface water system shall be operated as a public utility
(hereinafter called the “Surface Water Management Utility”), pursuant to M.S. §
444.075, as it may be amended from time to time, from which revenues will be
derived subject to the provisions of this chapter and state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 908.01) (Ord. 529, passed 08-23-1993)
§ 53.002 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   In providing for such charges, the findings and determinations are as
follows:
   (A)   In the exercise of its governmental authority and in order to promote
the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare, the city has
constructed, operated and maintained a surface water system (“the system”).
This section is adopted in the further exercise and authority and for the same
purpose;
   (B)   The system, as constructed, heretofore has been financed and paid for
through the ad valorem taxes and assessments. The financing methods were
appropriate to the circumstances at the time they were used. It is now
necessary and desirable to provide an alternative method of recovering some or
all of the future costs of improving, maintaining and operating the system
through the imposition of user charges;
   (C)   In imposing charges, it is necessary to establish a methodology that
undertakes to make them just and equitable. Taking into account the status of
completion of the system, past methods of recovering system costs, the
topography of the city and other relevant factors, it is determined that it
would be just and equitable to assign responsibility for some or all of the
future costs of operating, maintaining and improving the system on the basis of
the expected storm water runoff from the various parcels of land within the
city during a standard one-year rainfall event; and
   (D)   Assigning costs and making charges based upon typical storm water
runoff cannot be done with mathematical precision, but can only be accomplished
within reasonable and practical limits. The provisions of this section
undertake to establish a reasonable and practical methodology for making such
charges.
(Prior Code, § 908.01) (Ord. 529, passed 08-23-1993)
§ 53.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   QUARTERLY SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT REVENUE REQUIREMENT. The estimated
quarterly expenditures for planning and inventories, capital expenditures,
personnel, equipment and operation of the surface water utility, in accordance
with established city policy. The QUARTERLY SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT REVENUE
REQUIREMENT and resulting surface water management fees shall be per the city’s
approved fee schedule.
   SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT FEE. The quarterly charge developed for each parcel
of land pursuant to this chapter.
   UTILITY FACTOR. The utility factor is defined as the ratio of runoff volume,
in inches, for a particular land use, to the runoff volume, in inches for an
average single-family residential lot, assuming a two-inch rainfall and Soil
Conservation Service (SCS) Type B soil conditions.
(Prior Code, § 908.02) (Ord. 529, passed 08-23-1993)
§ 53.004 SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT FEE.
   (A)   Determination. The surface water management fee shall be determined by
first determining the percentage of total runoff in the city which is
attributed to residential property. The total fee for all residential property
in the city is computed by multiplying the runoff percentage by one-quarter of
the annual surface water management revenue requirement. The residential
surface water management fee, per acre, is determined by dividing the total
residential fee by the estimated total acres of residential land use in the
city.
   (B)   Total fee. The surface water management fee for residential,
townhomes/condominiums, apartments and mobile home parks will be determined on
a per-household basis rather than a per acre basis. The fee per household is
determined by first determining the total fee for each land use. The total fee
for each land use is determined by multiplying the total fee for all
residential property by the appropriate utility factor based on land use. The
total fee is then divided by the total number of households for the particular
land use, resulting in cost per household.
   (C)   Individual parcels, excluding residential.
      (1)   General. The surface water management fee for all individual
parcels, excluding residential, shall be defined as the product of:
         (a)   The residential surface water management fee (per acre);
         (b)   The appropriate utility factor based on land use; and
         (c)   The total acreage of the parcel.
      (2)   Credits. The Council may adopt policies, by resolution, for
adjustment of the surface water management fees. Information to justify a fee
adjustment must be supplied by the property owner. The adjustments of fees
shall not be retroactive unless provided within the resolution. Credits will be
reviewed regularly by a staff committee.
      (3)   Surface water management utility factors. The utility factors for
various land uses are as follows:
Classification Land Use Utility Factor
Classification                                        Land Use Utility Factor
R-1, R-2 Single- and Two-Family Residential           1.0
R-3 Medium Density Residential                        2.68
R-4, R-5, R-0 High Density Residential, Mobile Homes, 3.26
Residential Office
B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4 Neighborhood Business, Limited     4.17
Business, Highway Business, Regional Business
I-1 Industrial                                        3.26
PF Public Facilities                                  1.28
PUD Planned Unit Development                          3.69
CRP Conservancy, Recreation and Presentation          0.46
School/Church Public/Private                          1.5
 
      (4)   Other land uses. Other land uses not listed in the foregoing table
shall be classified by the City Administrator by assigning them to the classes
most nearly like the listed uses, from the standpoint of probable hydrologic
response. Appeals from the City Administrator’s determination of the proper
classifications may be made to the City Council in the same manner as other
appeals from administrative determinations.
(Prior Code, § 908.03) (Ord. 529, passed 08-23-1993)
§ 53.005 ADJUSTMENTS OF FEES.
   The City Council may by resolution, from time to time, adopt policies
providing for the adjustment of management fees for parcels or groups of
parcels, based upon hydrologic data supplied by affected property owners,
demonstrating an actual hydrologic response substantially different from the
utility factor being used for the parcel or parcels.
(Prior Code, § 908.04) (Ord. 529, passed 08-23-1993)
§ 53.006 EXCLUDED LANDS.
   No management fee for system availability or service shall be made against
land which is public street right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 908.05) (Ord. 529, passed 08-23-1993)
§ 53.007 SUPPLYING INFORMATION.
   The owner, occupant or person in charge of any premises shall supply the
city with such information as the city may reasonably request related to the
use, development and area of the premises. Willful failure to provide such
information or to falsify it is a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 908.06) (Ord. 529, passed 08-23-1993)
§ 53.008 ESTIMATED CHARGES.
   If the owner, occupant or person in charge of any premises fails or refuses
to provide information requested under §
53.007 of this chapter, the management fee for the premises shall be estimated
and billed in accordance with the estimate, based upon information then
available to the city.
(Prior Code, § 908.07) (Ord. 529, passed 08-23-1993)
§ 53.009 BILLINGS AND COLLECTIONS.
   Bills for surface water management fees for the use and availability of the
system shall be rendered by the Finance Department in accordance with usual and
customary practice in rendering of water and sanitary sewer service bills.
Bills shall be rendered quarterly, shall be payable at the office of the city’s
Finance Department and may be rendered in conjunction with billings for water
or sanitary sewer service, or both.
(Prior Code, § 908.08) (Ord. 529, passed 08-23-1993)
§ 53.010 USE OF REVENUES.
   Revenues received from charges shall be placed in the surface water
management utility account and shall be used to finance operational costs and
improvements to and betterment of the system.
(Prior Code, § 908.09) (Ord. 529, passed 08-23-1993)
§ 53.011 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES FOR DELINQUENCY OR DEFAULT IN PAYING BILLS.
   Penalties and remedies for late payments or non-payment of billings shall be
the same as those applicable to billings rendered for water and sanitary sewer
service.
(Prior Code, § 908.10) (Ord. 529, passed 08-23-1993)
CHAPTER 54: RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
54.001   Findings, purpose and intent
   
54.002   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
54.003   Definitions
   
54.004   Administration
   
54.005   Appeals
   
54.006   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
Registration and Permits
   
54.020   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
54.021   Registration information
   
54.022   Reporting obligations
   
54.023   Permit required
   
54.024   Permit applications
   
54.025   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
54.026   Action on small wireless facility permit applications
   
54.027   Permit fees
   
54.028   Patching and restoration
   
54.029   Joint applications
   
54.030   Supplementary applications
   
54.031   Other obligations
   
54.032   Denial or revocation of permit
   
54.033   Revocation of permit
Conditions and Regulations
   
54.045   Installation requirements
   
54.046   Inspection
   
54.047   Work done without a permit
   
54.048   Supplementary notification
   
54.049   Mapping data
   
54.050   Location and relocation of facilities
   
54.051   Pre-excavation facility and facilities location
   
54.052   Damage to other facilities
   
54.053   Right-of-way vacation
   
54.054   Indemnification and liability
   
54.055   Abandoned and unuseable facilities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.001 FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This chapter imposes reasonable regulation on the placement and
maintenance of facilities and equipment currently within its rights-of-way or
to be placed therein. It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of
state and federal agencies.
   (B)   This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session Laws,
Chapter 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81 and 238.086 (the “Act”), as they may be amended from time to
time, and 2017 Session Laws Ch. 94 amending the Act, and the other laws
governing applicable rights of the city and users of the right-of-way. This
chapter shall also be interpreted consistently with Minn. Rules parts 7819.0050
through 7819.9950, where possible. To the extent any provision of this chapter
cannot be interpreted consistently with the Minnesota Rules, that
interpretation most consistent with the Act and other applicable statutory and
case law is intended.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.002 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects pursuant to
this chapter to manage rights-of-way within the jurisdiction.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not ABANDONED
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way.
   CITY. The City of Mounds View, Minnesota. For purposes of §
54.053 of this chapter, CITY means its elected officials, officers, employees
and agents.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure or utility pole that is owned privately, or by the
city or other governmental unit.
   COMMISSION. The Minnesota Public Utilities Commission.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, over a continuous length in excess of 500 feet.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at the permittee’s option:
      (1)   Individual project bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, subd. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the LGU;
      (5)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the LGU; and
      (6)   Blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct the right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules part 7819.1100, the cost to achieve
a level of restoration as determined by the city at the time the permit is
issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in Plates 1 to 13, set
forth in Minn. Rules parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation and which equals the degradation
costs.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works of the city.
   DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR. Any person authorized by the Director to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this chapter.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Public Works of the city, or the
Director’s designee.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching or restoration as requested by
permit.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses a danger to life or health, or of a significant loss of
property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement of facilities in order to
restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair or maintain facilities
in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in the
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
54.027 of this chapter.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service.
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the local government unit
for construction within the next five years.
   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR. A designated portion of the public right-of-way
within which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and
competing facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   HOLE. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
less than the width of the pavement.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT UNIT. The city.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of such person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing and verifying right-of-way or small wireless
facility permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
maintaining, supporting, protecting or moving user facilities during right-of-
way work; determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way or small wireless facility permits.
MANAGEMENT COSTS do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
user for the use of the right-of-way, unreasonable fees of a third-party
contractor used by the city including fees tied to or based on customer counts,
access lines or revenues generated by the right-of-way or for the city, the
fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of Minnesota Session
Laws 1997, Ch. 123; M.S. §§ 237.162 or 237.163, as they may be amended from
time to time, or any ordinance enacted under those sections, or the city fees
and costs related to appeals taken pursuant to §
54.005 of this chapter.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
54.027 of this chapter.
   PATCH or PATCHING.
      (1)   A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in nature.
      (2)   A PATCH consists of:
         (a)   The compaction of the subbase and aggregate base; and
         (b)   The replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum
of two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions.
      (3)   A PATCH is considered full restoration only when the pavement is
included in the city’s five- year project plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate or gravel.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning given “right-of-way permit” in M.S. § 237.162, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of the state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or non-profit, and whether natural, corporate or political.
   PROBATION. The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions
of this chapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a person has been notified
in writing that they have been put on probation.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public
roadway, highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane and public sidewalk in which
the city has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel
purposes and utility easements of the city. A RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include the
airwaves above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other non-wire
telecommuni- cations or broadcast service.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who:
      (1)   Has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities located in any
right-of-way; or
      (2)   In any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the right-of-way.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to Plates 1 to 13 of PUC rules.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit or the obstruction permit,
or both, depending on the context, required by this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.
      (1)   A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by M.S. §
237.162, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a
right under law, franchise or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Includes:
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, subd. 4 and 6, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Services of a cable communications systems as defined in M.S. Ch.
238, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
      (5)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A, as it may be amended from time to time; and
      (6)   Water, sewer, steam, cooling or heating services.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute or furnish gas, electricity, communications or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A SERVICE LATERAL is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer’s premises.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or could fit within such an enclosure; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility; provided, the equipment is, in aggregate, no more than 28 cubic feet
in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services and any equipment
concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature, except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the local government unit’s two-year plan; in which case,
it is considered full restoration.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHTS-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way, that is used or is intended to be used for providing wireless
service or transporting telecommunication or other voice or data information.
For purposes of this chapter, a cable communication system defined and
regulated under M.S. Ch. 238, as it may be amended from time to time, and
telecommunication activities related to providing natural gas or electric
energy services whether provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, as it may be amended from time to time, a municipality, a municipal
gas or power agency organized under M.S. Ch. 453 and 453A, as it may be amended
from time to time, or a cooperative electric association organized under M.S.
Ch. 308A, as it may be amended from time to time, are not TELECOMMUNICATIONS
RIGHT-OF-WAY USERS for purposes of this chapter, except to the extent the
entity is offering wireless service.
   TWO-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the local government unit
for construction within the next two years.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision
of wireless sendees between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including equipment associated with wireless service, a radio transceiver,
antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies and a
small wireless facility, but not including wireless support structures,
wireline backhaul facilities, or cables between utility poles or wireless
support structures, or not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly
associated with a specific antenna.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a mobile devise, that is provided using wireless facilities. WIRELESS
SERVICE does not include services regulated under Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., as amended,
including cable service.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure in a right-of-way
designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities, as
reasonably determined by the city.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.004 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Director is the principal city official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits and the ordinances
related thereto.
   (B)   The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.005 APPEALS.
   (A)   A right-of-way user that: has been denied registration; has been
denied a permit; has had permit revoked; or believes that the fees imposed are
invalid, may have the denial, revocation or fee imposition reviewed, upon
written request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act on a timely
written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
   (B)   A decision by the City Council affirming the denial, revocation or fee
imposition will be writing and supported by written findings establishing the
reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.006 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee’s or registrant’s rights are subject to the regulatory and
police powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
REGISTRATION AND PERMITS
§ 54.020 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person who occupies, uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease or assignment, must register with the Director of Public Works/
Parks and Recreation. Registration will consist of providing application
information and paying a registration fee.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof in any right-of-way without first being registered with the
Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a city ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and
shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this
chapter. However, nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the
provisions of the M.S. Ch. 216D, One Call Excavation Notice System, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.021 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the Director of
Public Works/Parks and Recreation at the time of registration shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant’s name, One Call Excavation Notice System
registration certificate number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and
telephone and facsimile numbers;
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state or a
form of self insurance acceptable to the Director;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees, and placement and use of facilities
and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers, agents,
employees and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection against
liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground facilities
and collapse of property;
         (c)   Either naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages or otherwise providing evidence
satisfactory to the Director that the city is fully covered and will be
defended through the registrant’s insurance for all actions included in Minn.
Rules part 7819.1250;
         (d)   Requiring that the Director be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the Director in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to
carry out the purposes and policies of this chapter; and
         (f)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies if
necessary to ensure the Director that the policy provides adequate third party
claim coverage and city indemnity and defense coverage for all actions included
in the indemnity required by Minn. Rules part 7819.1250.
      (4)   Such evidence as the Director may require that the person is
authorized to do business in the state.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the Director information as
to changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has
knowledge of any change.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.022 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by December
1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for underground
facilities with the Director. The plan shall be submitted using a format
designated by the Director and shall contain the information determined by the
Director to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way.
      (2)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
“next-year project”); and
         (b)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this section, a “five-year project”).
      (3)   The term “project” in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
      (4)   By January 1 of each year, the Director will have available for
inspection in the Director’s office a composite list of all projects of which
the Director has been informed of the annual plans. All registrants are
responsible for keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
      (5)   Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project
in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the Director and all other
registrants of all such changes in the list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another registrant
listed by the other registrant.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Director will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to
include a project in a plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used
commercially reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.023 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way or install or place facilities in the
right-of-way, without first having obtained the appropriate right-of-way permit
from the Director to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in the permit and to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
      (3)   Small wireless facility permit. A small wireless facility permit is
required by a registrant to erect or install a wireless support structure, to
collocate a small wireless facility or to otherwise install a small wireless
facility in the specified portion of the right-of-way to the extent specified
therein; provided that, the permit shall remain in effect for the length of
time the facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless such person:
      (1)   Makes a supplementary application for another right-of-way permit
before the expiration of the initial permit; and
      (2)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.1000, subpart
3, and notwithstanding division (B) above, the city shall establish and impose
a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the Director.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.024 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the Director.
Permit applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Registration with the Director pursuant to this chapter;
   (B)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities;
   (C)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city; and
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
   (D)   Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the director deems the existing construction
performance bond inadequate under applicable standards.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.025 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the Director shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The Director may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use.
   (C)   Small wireless facility conditions. In addition to division (B) above,
the erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the collocation
of a small wireless facility or other installation of a small wireless facility
in the right-of-way, shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the
particular wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable permit application.
      (2)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-way
shall exceed 50 feet in height without the city’s written authorization;
provided that, the city may impose a lower height limit in the applicable
permit to protect the public health, safety and welfare or to protect the
right-of-way and its current use; and, further provided that, a registrant may
replace an existing wireless support structure exceeding 50 feet in height with
a structure of the same height subject to such conditions or requirements as
may be imposed in the applicable permit.
      (3)   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet above its
wireless support structure.
      (4)   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the city may impose separation requirements
between the structure and any existing wireless support structure or other
facilities in and around the right-of-way.
      (5)   Where an applicant proposes collocation on a decorative wireless
support structure, sign or other structure not intended to support small
wireless facilities, the city may impose reasonable requirements to accommodate
the particular design appearance or intended purpose of the structure.
      (6)   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the city may impose reasonable restocking, replacement or relocation
requirements on the replacement of the structure.
   (D)   Small wireless facility agreement.
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on a small
wireless support structure owned or controlled by the city, or any other city
asset in the right-of-way after the applicant has executed a standard small
wireless facility collocation agreement with the city. The standard collocation
agreement may require payment of the following:
         (a)   Up to $150 per year for rent to collocate on the city structure;
         (b)   Twenty-five dollars per year for maintenance associated with the
collocation; and
         (c)   A monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
            1.   Seventy-three dollars per radio node less than or equal to 100
maximum watts:
            2.   One hundred eighty-two dollars per radio node over 100 maximum
watts; or
            3.   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual cost exceed the
foregoing.
      (2)   The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not
in lieu of, the required small wireless facility permit; provided, however,
that, the applicant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or
franchise in order to collocate. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit
does not supersede, alter or affect any then-existing agreement between the
city and applicant.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.026 ACTION ON SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Deadline for action. The city shall approve or deny a small wireless
facility permit application within 90 days after filing of such application.
The small wireless facility permit, and any associated building permit
application, shall be deemed approved if the city fails to approve or deny the
application within the review periods established in this section.
   (B)   Consolidated applications.
      (1)   An applicant may file a consolidated small wireless facility permit
application addressing the proposed collocation of up to 15 small wireless
facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by a local government unit;
provided that, all small wireless facilities in the application:
         (a)   Are located within a two-mile radius;
         (b)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         (c)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support
structures.
      (2)   In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the
city may approve some small wireless facilities and deny others, but may not
use denial of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless
facilities in the application.
   (C)   Tolling of deadline. The 90-day deadline for action on a small
wireless facility permit application may be tolled if:
      (1)   The city receives applications from one or more applicants seeking
approval of permits for more than 30 small wireless facilities within a seven-
day period. In such case, the city may extend the deadline for all such
applications by 30 days by informing the affected applicants in writing of the
extension.
      (2)   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or information
and the city provides written notice of incompleteness to the applicant within
30 days of receipt the application. Upon submission of additional documents or
information, the city shall have ten days to notify the applicant in writing of
any still-missing information.
      (3)   The city and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing
to toll the review period.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.027 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Fee schedule and fee allocation. The city’s permit fee schedule shall
be available to the public and established in advance. The permit fees shall be
designed to recover the city’s actual costs incurred in managing the right-of-
way and shall be based on an allocation among all users of the right-of-way,
including the city.
   (B)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall impose an excavation permit fee
in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (C)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall impose the obstruction permit
fee which shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management
costs.
   (D)   Small wireless facility permit fee. The city shall impose a small
wireless facility permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   City engineering, make-ready and construction costs associated with
collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (E)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay such fees within 30 days of billing.
   (F)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the
Director has revoked for a breach as stated in §
54.033 of this chapter are not refundable.
   (G)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.028 PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
54.031 of this chapter.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. The permittee shall patch its own work. The
city may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to
restore the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, the
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following
the restoration, the pavement settles due to the permittee’s improper
backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing,
all costs associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
part 7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the Director and
shall comply with Minn. Rules part 7819.1100. The Director shall have the
authority to prescribe the manner and extent of the restoration, and may do so
in written procedures of general application or on a case-by-case basis.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by the permittee or its agents. The
permittee shall upon notification from the Director, correct all restoration
work to the extent necessary, using the method required by the Director. The
work shall be completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice
from the Director, not including days during which work cannot be done because
of circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonal or unreasonable under §
54.031 of this chapter.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the Director, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the Director,
the Director, at his or her option, may do the work. In that event the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of
restoring the right-of-way. If permittee fails to pay as required, the city may
exercise its rights under the construction performance bond.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.029 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the Director does not perform, may share in
the payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a
joint permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each
will pay and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With city projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the Director, whether or not it is a joint application
by two or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the
excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit would still be required.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.030 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit no permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater
area:
      (1)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby; and
      (2)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.031 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the city or other applicable
rule, law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state and federal laws, including M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09 (One
Call Excavation Notice System), as they may be amended from time to time. A
permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable codes and
established rules and regulations, and is responsible for all work done in the
right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, or with the approval of the
Director, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for the work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with city parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.032 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Reasons for denial. The Director may deny a permit for failure to meet
the requirements and conditions of this chapter or if the Director determines
that the denial is necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use.
   (B)   Procedural requirements. The denial or revocation of a permit must be
made in writing and must document the basis for the denial. The city must
notify the applicant or right-of-way user in writing within three business days
of the decision to deny or revoke a permit. If an application is denied, the
right-of-way user may address the reasons for denial identified by the city and
resubmit its application. If the application is resubmitted within 30 days of
receipt of the notice of denial, no additional application fee shall be
imposed. The city must approve or deny the resubmitted application within 30
days after submission.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.033 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
the permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee’s control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
54.032 of this chapter.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the Director determines that the
permittee has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any
statute, ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit the
Director shall make a written demand upon the permittee to remedy the
violation. The demand shall state that continued violations may be cause for
revocation of the permit. A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the
Director, at his or her discretion, to place additional or revised conditions
on the permit to mitigate and remedy the breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, the permittee shall provide the Director with a
plan, acceptable to the Director, that will cure the breach. The permittee’s
failure to so contact the Director, or the permittee’s failure to submit an
acceptable plan, or the permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the
approved plan, shall be cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further,
the permittee’s failure to so contact the Director, or the permittee’s failure
to submit an acceptable plan, or the permittee’s failure to reasonably
implement the approved plan, shall automatically place the permittee on
probation for one year.
   (D)   Cause for probation. From time to time, the Director may establish a
list of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place
the permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to,
working out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly
outside of the permit authorization.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, the permittee’s permit will automatically be revoked
and the permittee will not be allowed further permits for one year, except for
emergency repairs.
   (F)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 54.045 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
part 7819.1100 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as they are
not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163, as they may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.046 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
with Minn. Rules part 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. The permittee shall make the work-site available to
the Director and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work which
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If the proof has not been presented within
the required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
54.033 of this chapter.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.047 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the Director of any event
regarding its facilities, which it considers to be an emergency. The registrant
may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency.
Within two business days after the occurrence of the emergency the registrant
shall apply for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith and
fulfill the rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance
with this chapter for the actions it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   (a)   If the Director becomes aware of an emergency regarding a
registrant’s facilities, the Director will attempt to contact the local
representative of each registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the
emergency, direct them to take whatever action may be necessary to respond to
the emergency, or otherwise take whatever action the Director deems necessary
to respond to the emergency if registrant does not timely respond.
         (b)   The cost shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities
occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
Legislative Code, deposit with the Director the fees necessary to correct any
damage to the right-of-way and comply with all of the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.048 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the
Director of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.049 MAPPING DATA.
   Each registrant and permittee shall provide mapping information required by
the Director in accordance with Minn. Rules parts 7819.4000 and 7819.4100.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.050 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General. Unless otherwise agreed in a franchise or other agreement
between the applicable right-of-way user and the city, facilities in the right-
of-way must be located or relocated and maintained underground in accordance
with this section, Minn. Rules part 7819.3100 and Ch. 55 of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   Corridors. The Director may assign specific corridors within the
right-of-way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each
type of facilities that is or, pursuant to current technology, the Director
expects will someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation,
obstruction or other permits issued by the Director involving the installation
or replacement of facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the
facilities at issue. Any relocation of facilities required by the Director
shall be carried out in accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.3100.
   (C)   Limitation of space.
      (1)   To protect health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect
the right-of-way and its current use, the Director shall have the power to
prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional facilities within the
right-of-way.
      (2)   In making such decisions, the Director shall strive to the extent
possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-of-way,
but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest, the
public’s needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the right-
of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the protection of
existing facilities in the right-of-way and future city plans for public
improvements and development projects which have been determined to be in the
public interest.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.051 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITY AND FACILITIES LOCATION.
   The registrant shall comply with the requirements of M.S. §§ 216D.01 through
216D.09 (“One Call Excavation Notice System”), as they may be amended from time
to time. Any registrant whose facilities are less than 20 inches below a
concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the excavation
contractor to establish the exact location of its facilities and the best
procedure for excavation.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.052 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the Director does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support or move a registrant’s facilities to protect it, the Director
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way, which it or its
facilities damages. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the
city’s response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant’s facilities.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.053 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way, which contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules part 7819.3200.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.054 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the Director, or by accepting a permit under this
chapter, a registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city in
accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules part 7819.1250.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 54.055 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the Director that the registrant’s obligations for
its facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully
assumed by another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the Director.
(Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
CHAPTER 55: FACILITIES IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section
   
55.001   Purpose
   
55.002   Definitions
   
55.003   Undergrounding of facilities
   
55.004   Undergrounding of new facilities
   
55.005   Undergrounding of permanent replacement, relocated or reconstructed
facilities
   
55.006   Retirement of overhead facilities
   
55.007   Public hearings
   
55.008   Public hearing issues
   
55.009   Undergrounding plans
Cross-reference:
Right-of-Way Management, see
Ch. 54
Streets, Sidewalks and Public Property, see
Ch. 152
§ 55.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and
general welfare of the public and is intended to foster:
      (1)   Safe travel over the right-of-way;
      (2)   Non-travel related safety around homes and buildings where overhead
feeds are connected; and
      (3)   Orderly development in the city.
   (B)   Location and relocation, installation and reinstallation of facilities
in the right-of-way must be made in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 911.01)
§ 55.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Minnesota Public Utilities Commission.
   FACILITY. Tangible asset in the public right-of-way required to provide
utility service. The term does not include FACILITIES to the extent the
location and relocation of such FACILITIES are preempted by M.S. § 161.45, as
it may be amended from time to time, governing utility facility placement in
state trunk highways. FACILITY does not mean electric transmission lines, as
distinguished from electric distribution lines.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Has the meaning given it in M.S. § 237.162, subd. 3, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.
      (1)   A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by M.S. §
237.162, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility, in the right-of-way,
that is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has
a right under law, franchise or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
   UTILITY SERVICE.
      (1)   Service provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. § 216B.02,
subd. 4 and 6, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including the
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Services provided by a cable communications system as defined in
M.S. § 238.02, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by a local government unit;
      (5)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A, as it may be amended from time to time; and
      (6)   Water, sewer, steam, cooling or heating services.
(Prior Code, § 911.02)
§ 55.003 UNDERGROUNDING OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Facilities placed in the public right-of-way must be located,
relocated and maintained underground pursuant to the terms and conditions of
this chapter and in accordance with applicable construction standards.
   (B)   This chapter is intended to be enforced consistently with state and
federal law regulating right-of-way users, specifically including but not
limited to M.S. §§ 161.45, 237.162, 237.163, 300.03, 222.37, 238.084 and
216B.36, as they may be amended from time to time, and the TelecommunicatiWSons
Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. § 253.
(Prior Code, § 911.01)
§ 55.004 UNDERGROUNDING OF NEW FACILITIES.
   (A)   A new facility or a permanent extension of facilities must be
installed and maintained underground when supplied to:
      (1)   A new installation of buildings, signs, streetlights or other
structures;
      (2)   A new subdivision of land; or
      (3)   A new development or industrial park containing new commercial or
industrial buildings.
   (B)   The City Council, in its discretion, may deviate from the requirements
of this chapter in situations where undergrounding is not technically or
economically feasible.
(Prior Code, § 911.04)
§ 55.005 UNDERGROUNDING OF PERMANENT REPLACEMENT, RELOCATED OR RECONSTRUCTED
FACILITIES.
   (A)   A permanent replacement, relocation or reconstruction of a facility of
more than 300 feet must be located, and maintained underground, with due regard
for seasonal working conditions. For purposes of this chapter, reconstruction
means any substantial repair of or any improvement to existing facilities.
   (B)   Undergrounding is required whether a replacement, relocation or
reconstruction is initiated by the right-of-way user owning or operating the
facilities, or by the city in connection with:
      (1)   The present or future use by the city or other local government
unit of the right-of-way for a public project;
      (2)   The public health or safety; or
      (3)   The safety and convenience of travel over the right-of-way.
   (C)   The City Council, in its discretion, may deviate from the requirements
of this chapter in situations where undergrounding is not technically or
economically feasible.
(Prior Code, § 911.05)
§ 55.006 RETIREMENT OF OVERHEAD FACILITIES.
   (A)   The City Council may determine whether it is in the public interest
that all facilities within the city, or within certain districts designated by
the city, be permanently placed and maintained underground by a date certain or
target date, independently of undergrounding required pursuant to §§
55.004 and
55.005 of this chapter.
   (B)   The decision to underground must be preceded by a public hearing, and
must be proceeded by two weeks’ published notice and not less than 30 days’
written notice to the utilities affected.
   (C)   At the hearing, the Council must consider §
55.008(A) through (D) of this chapter and make findings. Undergrounding may not
take place until the City Council has, after hearing and notice, adopted a plan
containing §
55.009(B)(1) through (B)(6) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 911.06)
§ 55.007 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   A hearing must be open to the public and may be continued from time to
time.
   (B)   At each hearing, any person interested must be given an opportunity to
be heard.
   (C)   The subject of the public hearings shall be the issue of whether
facilities in the right-of-way in the city, or located within a certain
district, shall all be located underground by a date certain.
   (D)   Hearings are not necessary for the undergrounding required under §§
55.004 and
55.005 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 911.07)
§ 55.008 PUBLIC HEARING ISSUES.
   The issues to be addressed at the public hearings include, but are not
limited to:
   (A)   The costs and benefits to the public of requiring the undergrounding
of all facilities in the right-of-way;
   (B)   The feasibility and cost of undergrounding all facilities by a date
certain as determined by the city and the affected utilities;
   (C)   The tariff requirements, procedure and rate design for recovery or
intended recovery of incremental costs for undergrounding by the utilities from
ratepayers within the city; and
   (D)   Alternative financing options available if the city deems it in the
public interest to require undergrounding by a date certain and deems it
appropriate to participate in the cost otherwise borne by the ratepayers.
(Prior Code, § 911.08)
§ 55.009 UNDERGROUNDING PLAN.
   (A)   If the Council finds that it is in the public interest to underground
all or substantially all facilities in the public right-of-way, the Council
must establish a plan for such undergrounding.
   (B)   The plan for undergrounding must include at least the following
elements:
      (1)   Timetable for the undergrounding;
      (2)   Designation of districts for the undergrounding unless,
undergrounding plan is citywide;
      (3)   Exceptions to the undergrounding requirement and procedure for
establishing the exceptions;
      (4)   Procedures for the undergrounding process, including, but not
limited to, coordination with city projects and provisions to ensure compliance
with non-discrimination requirements under the law;
      (5)   A financing plan for funding of the incremental costs if the city
determines that it will finance some of the undergrounding costs, and a
determination and verification of the claimed additional costs to underground
incurred by the utility; and
      (6)   Penalties or other remedies for failure to comply with the
undergrounding.
(Prior Code, § 911.09)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING RULES
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.001   Adoption of statutes
   
70.002   Unreasonable acceleration
   
70.003   Vehicle load limit restrictions
   
70.004   Unlawful deposits on public ways
 
   
70.999   Penalty
§ 70.001 ADOPTION OF STATUTES.
   The regulatory provisions of M.S. Ch. 168, 169 and 171, as they may be
amended from time to time, including amendments enacted by the state
legislature at its regular and special sessions, as regulatory ordinances
relative to the use of highways, streets and alleys and of motor vehicles and
drivers and all other vehicles within the city, are hereby incorporated in and
made a part of this code as completely as if set out herein in full. A copy of
the provisions is on file in the office of the City Administrator for public
use and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 801.01) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 70.002 UNREASONABLE ACCELERATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle propelled by an engine and authorized to be
driven on a public highway.
      UNREASONABLE ACCELERATION. To cause squealing or screeching sounds by the
tires, and/or fishtailing of the motor vehicle or the throwing of sand or
gravel by the tires of the vehicle or both.
   (B)   Unreasonable acceleration prohibited. Unreasonable acceleration of any
motor vehicle on any public highway or private property within the city, as
defined herein, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and is prohibited.
   (C)   Evidence of violation. It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation
of this section if a motor vehicle shall be observed accelerating in a manner
as to cause squealing or screeching sounds by the vehicle’s tires, fishtailing
of the vehicle or the throwing of sand and gravel or other material by the
tires of the vehicle, or any combination of the herein described actions.
(Prior Code, § 801.02) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.003 VEHICLE LOAD LIMIT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Seasonal load restrictions. Pursuant to M.S. §§ 169.80 through 169.88,
as they may be amended from time to time, the Director of Public Works/Parks
and Recreation shall establish appropriate seasonal load restrictions for
municipal streets and shall cause notice of the restrictions to be posted as
required. The restrictions shall be for the purpose of minimizing damage to
municipal streets during the annual spring thaw.
   (B)   Special permit requirements. The Director of Public Works/Parks and
Recreation may issue special permits authorizing vehicle loads in excess of
established restrictions. The special permits shall be for good cause,
including maintenance of the orderly progress and timely completion of private
and public improvement projects, and shall be issued only when the cause does
not conflict with the purpose of this section.
   (C)   Application for permit; fee. The operator of each overload vehicle
shall make application for the special permit and provide the information as
required by the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation. A fee per the
city’s approved fee schedule for each overload trip shall be paid with the
application. All fees collected pursuant hereto shall be deposited in the
general fund.
(Prior Code, § 801.03) (Ord. 954, passed 02-11-2019) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.004 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Snow and ice accumulations.
      (1)   All snow accumulated from clearing or plowing operations on private
property shall be stockpiled on the property from which the snow is cleared or
upon other private property for which the property owner has written
permission.
      (2)   In clearing snow and/or moving snow, it shall be unlawful to
operate in a manner as to cause any snow to be deposited in the street, on
sidewalks, in the boulevard of any street or on private property for which the
property owner does not have written permission for storage of snow.
      (3)   Snow cleared from the portion of a driveway or sidewalk in the
boulevard of a street may be placed on the boulevard adjacent to the driveway
or sidewalk, but may not be moved across the street to other areas without
express permission of the property owner receiving the snow.
   (B)   Debris. Debris, including, but not limited to, tree branches, leaves,
dirt and other materials, shall be properly disposed for the type of material.
It shall be unlawful to place any type of debris into the street right-of-way
or on private property for which the property owner does not have written
permission.
   (C)   Exemptions. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to
governmental agencies involved in the maintenance of streets and sidewalks or
involved in snow or ice control operations.
(Prior Code, § 801.04) (Ord. 522, passed 02-08-1993; Ord. 954, passed 02-11-
2019) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   Any violations of the provisions of this traffic code or of the statutes
adopted by reference herein is a violation of this code when it occurs within
the city. Any person violating any provisions of this traffic code shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor or, where authorized, a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 801.05)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING RULES
Section
   
71.001   Definitions
   
71.002   Public parking
   
71.003   No-parking zones
   
71.004   Oversize vehicle parking
   
71.005   Impeding traffic or street maintenance
   
71.006   Parking during snow accumulation and snow emergency declarations
   
71.007   Off-street parking
   
71.008   Parking vehicles for sale
   
71.009   Vehicle towing provisions
 
   
71.999   Penalty
§ 71.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of any right-of-way of a public roadway, other than
the paved surface of the roadway, which is not designated for use as an off-
street parking facility.
   DESIGNATED OFF-STREET PARKING. Any private garage or properly surfaced off-
street parking facility, as provided under §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this code of ordinances.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle propelled by motor and engine and commonly used
upon the streets and highways.
   OWNER. A person who owns a legal title to a vehicle.
   PARK, STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the
receiving or discharging of passengers.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
   PUBLIC PARKING AREA. All areas dedicated for public use and maintained by a
political subdivision.
   RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT. Any trailer, boat, snowmobile or other equipment
mounted on a trailer and designed and primarily used for recreational purposes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle designed and primarily used for
recreational purposes.
   STOP. Complete cessation from movement.
   TRAILER. Any non-motorized vehicle designed for carrying property on its own
structure and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
   TRUCK.
      (1)   A motor vehicle with a gross weight classification of G (12,001 to
15,000 pounds) or higher, as identified on the license plate and specified in
state statutes.
      (2)   Ordinary pick-up trucks, recreational vehicles, and passenger vans
customary in residential districts with such a weight classification shall not
be considered a TRUCK for purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 802.01) (Ord. 886, passed 04-28-2014; Ord. 1028, passed 3-10-
2025)
§ 71.002 PUBLIC PARKING.
   Unless permitted by an authorized parking sign, no person shall park, remain
in or leave standing any motor vehicle in or upon any public park, bathing
beach or public land, road or highway adjoining public waters.
(Prior Code, § 802.02) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 NO-PARKING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a motor vehicle, except as otherwise
provided or unless directed to do so by a police officer, on any street or
highway where the Municipal Council has established by resolution a “no-parking
zone”, and the zone is marked by a sign or a yellow curb.
(Prior Code, § 802.03) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 OVERSIZE VEHICLE PARKING.
   No person shall allow any recreational equipment, recreational vehicle or
truck to remain parked on a public street or highway within the city for a
period of more than two hours per day.
(Prior Code, § 802.04) (Ord. 954, passed 02-11-2019) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.005 IMPEDING TRAFFIC OR STREET MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   No person shall allow a motor vehicle to remain parked on public
property or in the right-of-way when said motor vehicle impedes, impairs or
prohibits the free flow of traffic.
   (B)   No person shall allow a motor vehicle to remain parked on public
property or in the right-of-way when said motor vehicle impedes, impairs, or
prohibits maintenance or construction equipment from properly conducting their
functions, including street maintenance, snowplowing, or snow removal services.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works, or his or her designee, may, in
conjunction with a police officer, authorize the removal of any vehicle parked
in violation of this section, as provided by §
71.009 of this chapter.
   (D)   For a violation of this section, the Director of Public Works, or his
or her designee, shall issue an administrative fine as outlined in the current
year’s fee schedule in addition to any additional charges, fees, or fines.
(Prior Code, § 802.05) (Ord. 974, passed 02-22-2021)  Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.006 PARKING DURING SNOW ACCUMULATION.
   (A)   Parking during snow accumulation. No person shall park or permit to be
parked any vehicle within any block on any public street when, within the
preceding 48 hours, melting or blowing snow or a combination thereof has
accumulated to a depth of two inches or more at street level anywhere within
that block; provided, however, that, parking shall be permitted within any
block of any public street where not otherwise prohibited whenever the entire
length of the roadway of such block has been cleared of snow from curb to curb
or, in the case of streets without curbs, between the outer edges of the
shoulders of such streets. Any vehicle parked in violation of this section may
be removed as provided by §
71.009 of this chapter.
   (B)   Snow emergency declaration for snow plowing and ice control
operations.
      (1)   A snow emergency declaration shall be made by the Director of
Public Works, or his or her designee.
      (2)   During a snow emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person,
except an operator of an emergency motor vehicle on an emergency call, to park
or leave standing any vehicle on any public property or in the right-of- way
during the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (3)   A snow emergency shall begin at 12:00 a.m. on the date following
the date on which the snow emergency declaration is made. The snow emergency
shall last for 54 hours, or until 6:00 a.m. on the third day after the snow
emergency begins, unless the city declares an earlier end. If the snow
emergency is ended early, the city will use all available methods of
notification to notify residents of the canceled snow emergency.
      (4)   The Director of Public Works, or his or her designee, may also, in
conjunction with a police officer, authorize the removal of any vehicle parked
in violation of this section, as provided by §
71.009 of this chapter.
      (5)   The owner of any vehicle that is removed shall be responsible for
the actual costs of removal and storage in addition to any additional charges,
fees, or fines.
(Prior Code, § 802.06) (Ord. 954, passed 02-11-2019; Ord. 974, passed 02-22-
2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.007 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Compliance with zoning provisions. The location, design and number of
off-street parking facilities shall be as specified in §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this code or ordinances.
   (B)   Parking in yards. No person shall allow any motor vehicle or trailer
to be parked in any yard adjacent to a public street, except in a designated
off-street parking space.
   (C)   Parking in boulevards. No person shall allow any motor vehicle or
trailer to be parked upon the boulevard of a public roadway.
   (D)   Recreational vehicles and equipment. No person shall allow any
recreational vehicle or equipment to be parked off-street closer than 15 feet
to the paved surfaces of a public roadway.
   (E)   Trucks. No person shall allow any truck to be parked in any
residential district, except as provided in §§
71.004 and
91.006 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 802.07) (Ord. 886, passed 04-28-2014; Ord. 954, passed 02-11-
2019) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.008 PARKING VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   (A)   Purpose. In order to preserve civic beauty, to ensure public health,
safety and welfare by preventing congestion and traffic hazards, to prevent
unauthorized use and trespass on vacant land and to prevent damage and erosion
problems associated with off-road vehicle traffic on unimproved surfaces, the
following prohibitions are required.
   (B)   Vehicle parking for sale prohibited. No person shall park, store,
display or permit the parking, storage or display of a motor vehicle, as
defined in §
71.001 of this chapter, for the purpose of sale, consignment, lease, trade or
exchange upon:
      (1)   Any public property including public rights-of-way and easements;
or
      (2)   Any private property unless the vehicle is parked on an improved
hard surface designed and improved for vehicle travel and only if the vehicle
is registered to the property owner or occupant of the property and, when
applicable, if the owner or occupant has a license issued pursuant to §§
112.020 through
112.025 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 802.09) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.009 VEHICLE TOWING PROVISIONS.
   Police officers are hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street or highway to the nearest garage or other place of safety
or to a garage designated or maintained by the Police Department or otherwise
maintained by the city under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
   (A)   Obstruction of traffic. When any vehicle is left unattended upon any
bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any tube, tunnel or underpass where the
vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic;
   (B)   Disabled car. When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to
constitute an obstruction to traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle
is, by reason of physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as to be
unable to provide for its custody or removal;
   (C)   Unattended, illegally parked vehicles. When any vehicle is left
unattended upon a street and is so parked illegally as to constitute an
impairment, impediment, or prohibition on the free flow of traffic or
maintenance or on construction equipment from properly conducting their
functions, including street maintenance, snowplowing, or snow removal services;
   (D)   Vehicles leaking oil or fluid. When any vehicle is leaking an oil or a
fluid, including but not limited to motor oil, hydraulic oil, or engine
lubricant; and
   (E)   Violation of provisions. When any vehicle is parked upon a public
street or right-of- way in violation of any of the other provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 802.10) (Ord. 974, passed 02-22-2021)  Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Evidence. The operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of this
chapter shall be prima facie evidence that the motor vehicle was, at the time
of the violation, controlled, operated and used by the owner thereof.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Any person who shall do or commit any act that is
forbidden by the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 802.11)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
72.001   Adoption of statutes
   
72.002   Restrictions on operation
   
72.003   Hours of operation
 
   
72.999   Penalty
SNOWMOBILES
§ 72.001 ADOPTION OF STATUTES.
   Any person operating a snowmobile in the city, unless provided otherwise
herein, shall be subject to the provisions of M.S. §§ 84.81 to 84.911,
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, and to the regulations of
the Commissioner of Natural Resources, which are incorporated herein by
reference.
(Prior Code, § 803.01)
§ 72.002 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a snowmobile in the city, except:
      (1)   On any privately-owned land with the express permission of the
property owner;
      (2)   In an emergency during the period of time when and at location
where the condition of the roadway renders travel by automobile impractical;
and
      (3)   By city maintenance personnel and members of the city’s Police
Department in the performance of their duties.
   (B)   No person shall operate a snowmobile in the city upon the paved
portion or boulevard of any trunk highway, county road or municipal street.
(Prior Code, § 803.02) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.003 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile in the city between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., prevailing time in the county, Sunday through Thursday, and
from 1:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. on other days, including the day preceding a
national holiday.
(Prior Code, § 803.03) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, M.S. §§
84.81 to 84.911, as they may be amended from time to time, or the regulations
of the Commissioner of Natural Resources shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 803.04)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   Generally, 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.: No person shall stop, stand or park a
motor vehicle or trailer on any street or highway in the city between the hours
of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., except as otherwise authorized by this schedule or
unless directed or authorized by a police officer or traffic-control device.
The City Council may authorize exceptions from this schedule. Any street or
highway so excepted must be posted with a sign indicating that parking between
12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. is allowed.
(Prior Code, § 802.08) (Ord. 511, passed 06-22-1992; Ord. 540, passed 06-13-
1994; Ord. 954, passed 02-11-2019; Ord. 974, passed 02-22- 2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS AND ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS AND ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.001   Pound established
   
90.002   Definitions
   
90.003   Dogs
   
90.004   Prohibited activities
   
90.005   Raising, keeping domestic or farm animals
   
90.006   Non-domestic, wild animals
 
   
90.999   Penalty
§ 90.001 POUND ESTABLISHED.
   The City Council may designate as the “municipal pound”, by resolution, a
privately-owned and operated facility that houses animals and is staffed by
qualified personnel. The facility may be located within or outside the city.
(Prior Code, § 701.02) (Ord. 460, passed 04-24-1989; Ord. 696, passed 04-22-
2002)
§ 90.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as part of the animal kingdom.
ANIMALS shall be classified as follows.
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, DOMESTIC ANIMALS shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous reptiles or amphibians and other similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or an
agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, FARM ANIMALS shall include
members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows, bulls),
sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys, pheasants), fowl (ducks, geese), swine
(including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC/WILD ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not usually trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, NON-DOMESTIC/WILD ANIMALS shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, excluding domesticated
house cats;
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes and jackals, excluding domesticated
dogs;
         (c)   Any crossbreeds of wild animals and domestic animals such as the
crossbreed between a wolf and a dog, unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted
as a domesticated house pet;
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon or squirrel, but excluding those members
otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets;
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous or inherently dangerous member of the
reptile family, including rattlesnakes, pit vipers and amphibians such as
crocodiles and alligators; and
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above, but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including, but not
limited to, bears, deer and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord or chained.
   CITY. Area within the corporate limits of the City of Mounds View,
Minnesota.
   DOG. Canines which are domestic animals.
   DOG KENNEL. Any premises where dogs are bred, trained or boarded; or any
premises where five or more dogs over six months of age are owned, kept or
harbored.
   KEEPING. Providing food, water or shelter for domestic or farm animals.
   OWNER. Any person, persons, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping
or harboring an animal.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All residential premises owned by private individuals,
including all structures located thereon, front yards, side yards and
backyards.
   RAISING. The maintaining and breeding as a hobby or as a commercial
enterprise any domestic or farm animal.
   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. A substantial disfigurement or a substantial loss
or impairment of the functions of any bodily member or organ, whether temporary
or permanent, or a fracture of any bodily member.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal of a ferocious or vicious character, habit,
disposition or any animal which has:
      (1)   Killed or inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human, domestic
animal or farm animal without substantial provocation; or
      (2)   Been involved in two or more biting incidents without substantial
provocation, involving humans, domestic animals or farm animals, within one
year.
(Prior Code, § 701.03) (Ord. 696, passed 04-22-2002; Ord. 1034, passed 4-14-
2025)
§ 90.003 DOGS.
   (A)   Dog at large prohibited. A dog owner violates this section if his or
her dog is at large.
   (B)   Howling and barking. A dog owner violates this section if the dog
which, by frequent and habitual howling, yelping, barking or otherwise, causes
annoyance or disturbance to two or more persons; provided that, the provisions
of this section shall not apply to duly authorized hospitals or clinics
conducted for the treatment of small animals.
   (C)   Clean up. Any owner or person having the custody or control of any dog
shall:
      (1)   Not permit the dog to be on public property or the property of
another without having in his or her immediate possession a device for the
collection and removal of feces to a proper receptacle;
      (2)   Remove feces left by a dog to a proper receptacle located on the
owner’s or custodian’s property; except that, droppings in a park may be placed
in an outside park trash container; and
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a blind person
with a guide dog or to a person with dogs engaged in search or rescue
activities.
   (D)   Damage to property. No dog owner shall permit a dog to damage any
lawn, garden or other property.
   (E)   Rabies inoculation; dog bites.
      (1)   Rabies inoculation. No owner shall own a dog over four months of
age without obtaining a rabies inoculation certificate from a veterinarian
showing that the dog has been inoculated for rabies and the owner shall keep
that certificate current.
      (2)   Whenever a dog has bitten a human or a domestic or farm animal, the
dog shall be impounded or confined for a period of ten days or more at the
expense of the owner of the dog. Except for the time limit, disposition or
redemption shall be in accordance with provisions of this chapter. The
impoundment or confinement may be waived whenever the dog owner presents to any
police officer a certificate of a licensed veterinarian indicating that the dog
has been vaccinated for rabies on a date not less than 24 months prior to the
date of the bite.
      (3)   A dog owner will not keep a dog that has been bitten by any animal
known to have been afflicted with rabies. A dog owner who has a dog which has
been bitten by an animal known to have been afflicted with rabies shall, upon
demand of any police officer or any police officer of the city, surrender the
dog to the officer for observation and/or treatment. With the approval of the
officer, the dog may be surrendered to a registered veterinarian or to any
approved non-profit corporation organized for the purpose of sheltering dogs.
   (F)   Impoundment and redemption.
      (1)   Fees. The dog owner may redeem a dog impounded after the term of
impoundment ends by    paying an impoundment fee, boarding charge and
veterinary service charge. Fees not set by the pound shall be determined per
the city’s approved fee schedule.
      (2)   Release. Upon receipt for the fees required above and adequate
proof of ownership, the pound shall release the dog to its owner.
      (3)   Disposition and unredeemed animals. Any dog which is not redeemed
within the time allowed by this chapter may be sold for not less than the
amount provided above to anyone desiring to purchase the dog, if the dog is not
requested by a licensed education or scientific institution under M.S. § 35.71,
as it may be amended from time to time. Any dog which is not redeemed by the
owner or sold shall be disposed of.
      (4)   Time for redemption. All impounded dogs, except those confined for
observation of rabies, shall be redeemed within five days, not including
Sundays or legal holidays, after the dog was impounded. Any dog not redeemed
within five days may be sold, destroyed or otherwise disposed of.
      (5)   Guard dogs. A business that has a guard dog for security purposes
shall post a conspicuous notice at the entrance of the premises of the presence
regarding the dog.
   (G)   Kennels.
      (1)   Licensing requirements. The owner of a proposed dog kennel shall
submit a license application to the City Administrator. Upon receipt of the
application, the City Administrator shall schedule a public hearing at a future
City Council meeting and shall notify all registered landowners or those
occupying land within 500 feet of the proposed kennel at least ten days in
advance of the hearing. The kennel license may be issued by the City Council by
resolution after a public hearing is held. Kennel licenses shall expire on
December 31 of each year.
      (2)   License fee. The annual license fee for dog kennels shall be per
the city’s approved fee schedule.
      (3)   Cleanliness and order; nuisance declared. Kennels and the premises
around the kennel shall be kept in a clean, quiet, orderly and sanitary
condition so as not to constitute a nuisance as defined in
Ch. 91 of this code or ordinances and in M.S. § 561.01, as it may be amended
from time to time. In determining whether a nuisance exists, consideration
shall be given to the kennel’s location, location of other residences and
general character of the neighborhood.
      (4)   Revocation. A kennel license may be revoked by action of the
Council for just cause after providing the license holder with an opportunity
to be heard. Just cause shall include any violations of this code reasonably
related to the operation of the dog kennel and/or treatment of animals.
      (5)   Persons ineligible. No license shall be granted to an applicant who
has mistreated animals or has been convicted for animal cruelty offenses.
      (6)   Renewals. Annual renewals of kennel licenses may be approved
administratively unless the city has received substantiated complaints related
to the dog kennel or any code violations have occurred at the dog kennel during
the previous year.
      (7)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish, maintain, conduct,
or operate a kennel without first obtaining a license therefor from the City of
Mounds View. A license shall also be obtained by State of Minnesota Board of
Animal Health, which proof shall be provided to the city on an annual basis. If
such license is not required by the state, proof of exemption is required.
(Prior Code, § 701.04) (Ord. 696, passed 04-22-2002; Ord. 774, passed 08-14-
2006; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 890, passed 08-25-2014; Ord. 953,
passed 12-10-2018; Ord. 981, passed 11-08-2021; Ord. 1034, passed 4-14-2025)
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.004 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Vicious animals. No owner shall keep, or allow on his or her premises,
or allow to run at large any vicious animal. Upon conviction for violation of
this section, the court may in addition to imposition of sentence, direct the
animal control officer to take the animal into custody and forthwith dispose of
it in a humane manner.
   (B)   Cruelty to animals. No person shall inhumanely, unnecessarily, cruelly
or wantonly beat, injure, torment or otherwise abuse an animal or cause or
permit an animal fight.
   (C)   Liability for pets. No owner who is exercising due care by adequately
restraining or confining an animal, shall be held liable under this section for
any harm the animal causes to any other animal if harmed animal is at large and
the harmed animal has entered the area or territory of the animal being legally
restrained or confined.
   (D)   Numbers of dogs. No owner shall own or harbor on their premises more
than four dogs over six months of age. Harboring for the purpose of fostering
or dog sitting is allowed for a period of no more than 60 cumulative days in
any 12-month period.
(Prior Code, § 701.05) (Ord. 696, passed 04-22-2002; Ord. 1034, passed 4-14-
2025)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 RAISING, KEEPING DOMESTIC OR FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   Nuisance declared.
      (1)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance
affecting the public peace, safety and welfare for an owner or resident within
the city to keep or raise any farm animal, except as noted below.
         (a)   Residents on properties zoned R-1, single-family residential,
may be permitted to keep and raise up to 12 chickens and/or ducks under the
following conditions and restrictions.
            1.   Residents seeking approval to keep and raise chickens or ducks
shall submit an application, application fee, site plan and coop specifications
incorporating generally held best practices. Initial applications shall be
considered by the City Council after holding a public hearing on the matter.
Renewals may be approved administratively unless the city has received
substantiated complaints or related violations have been noted during the
previous year.
            2.   Coop structures shall be set back at least 20 feet from
property lines and the subject home; coops shall only be located in rear yards.
New coops shall require a permit and shall be considered an accessory building
subject to all other conditions referenced in
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances.
            3.   Coops and the subject property shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary manner and may be subject to city inspection as may be deemed
necessary.
            4.   Backyard areas shall be fenced to confine chickens or ducks to
subject property.
            5.   Neither roosters, nor drakes, shall be permitted.
            6.   No slaughtering or beheading shall be permitted on the subject
premises.
            7.   Food shall be stored in water-tight, rodent-proof containers.
            8.   Permits expire on December 31 of each year and shall be
renewed annually. Permits may be revoked or denied by the City Council based on
cruelty, negligence or nuisance. In such event, the property owner shall be
provided with an opportunity to be heard.
(Prior Code, § 701.06)
         (b)   Residents on properties zoned R-1, single-family residential,
may be permitted to keep and raise honeybees under the following conditions and
restrictions.
            1.   Residents seeking approval to keep and raise honeybees shall
submit an application, application fee and site plan. Applications shall be
considered by the City Council which shall hold a public hearing on the matter.
            2.   Applicants for a beekeeping license shall provide proof of
applicable training or provide a waiver indicating how required experience has
been obtained.
            3.   Hives shall only be located in rear yards and be set back at
least ten feet from property lines and subject home, and at least 25 feet from
any public trail or walkway. No more than four hives shall be permitted. Hive
openings shall face in toward subject property’s backyard.
            4.   A clean water source shall be provided on the subject
property.
            5.   A beekeeper may receive temporary allowance for an additional
hive in the event a swarm is collected and until a new home is found for the
colony. In no event shall temporary allowance exceed six months.
            6.   Equipment shall be maintained in good condition in accordance
with accepted best management practices. Unused beekeeping equipment shall be
properly disposed of or stored indoors.
            7.   Licenses are valid indefinitely so long as the hives are
operated continuously. License may be revoked or denied by the City Council
based on negligence or nuisance. In such event, the property owner shall be
provided with an opportunity to be heard. Licenses shall expire upon lapse in
use for a period exceeding two years or upon a transfer of property ownership.
            8.   City staff shall administratively survey licensee on an annual
basis to validate that hives are still actively in use. Licensee shall respond
to staff's request in writing within 30 days of survey.
      (2)   Restrictions. It is unlawful for a dog owner to keep or raise more
than four dogs, except as allowed under §
90.003(H) of this chapter. It is unlawful to keep or raise a domestic or farm
animal if it creates a public nuisance and adversely affects the public health
and welfare.
      (3)   Investigation of complaints. It shall be the duty of any police
officer and the Police Department to investigate all complaints submitted to
the Council regarding domestic or farm animals. After investigation, if there
appears to be a violation of this chapter, the investigating officer shall
issue a citation.
(Ord. 696, passed 04-22-2002; Ord. 903, passed 06-22-2015; Ord. 908, passed 09-
14-2015; Ord. 953, passed 12-10-2018; Ord. 1001, passed 3-13-2023; Ord. 1029,
passed 3-10-2025; Ord. 1034, passed 4-14-2025)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 NON-DOMESTIC, WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Restrictions. No person shall have in his or her possession any non-
domestic or wild animal. Any non-domestic or wild animal found at large may be
immediately destroyed, without notice to the owner, by the direction of any
police officer if the wild animal cannot be captured and impounded after
reasonable effort or without serious risk of injury to those attempting to
impound it or to others.
   (B)   Trapping. It is unlawful to place or set any trap or device designed
to kill or capture a wild animal while trespassing on another person’s land
within the city. No person shall engage in trapping on publicly owned lands
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 701.07) (Ord. 696, passed 04-22-2002) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 701.08) (Ord. 460, passed 04-24-1989; Ord. 696, passed 04-22-
2002)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
91.001   Rules and definitions
   
91.002   Nuisances defined
   
91.003   Nuisances enumerated
   
91.004   Special provisions; building maintenance and appearance
   
91.005   Cesspools and septic tanks
   
91.006   Outside parking and storage
   
91.007   Vehicles constituting public nuisance
   
91.008   Noise control regulations
   
91.009   Enforcement
Weeds
   
91.020   Permitting excessive growth of grass and weeds unlawful
   
91.021   Destruction of weeds by owner
   
91.022   Destruction by city authority
   
91.023   Lien procedure
 
   
91.999   Penalty
NUISANCES
§ 91.001 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. (Where
references are made herein to particular officers, boards, agencies, or the
City Council, those are to that of the city unless otherwise defined.)
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that has remained outdoors on property
within the city for a period of more than 48 hours on public property or has
remained for a period of more than 48 hours on private property without consent
of the person in control of the property or in an inoperable condition, unless
it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building. It shall also mean a
motor vehicle voluntarily surrendered by its owner to the city or to a moving
contractor hired by the city for its removal. A classic car or pioneer car, as
defined in M.S. § 168.10, as it may be amended from time to time, shall not be
considered an ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE within the meaning of this section.
Vehicles held under police authority or pursuant to a writ or court order are
not ABANDONED VEHICLES. Vehicles on the premises of junk yards and automobile
graveyards that are defined, maintained and licensed in accordance with M.S.
161.242, as it may be amended from time to time, are not considered ABANDONED
VEHICLES.
   CITY. The City of Mounds View, in Ramsey County, State of Minnesota.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle with a gross weight classification of E
(6,001 to 10,000 pounds) or higher, as identified on the license plate and
specified in state statutes. Ordinary pick-up trucks, recreational vehicles
(RVs), and passenger vans customary in residential districts with such a weight
classification shall not be considered COMMERCIAL VEHICLES for purposes of this
subchapter.
   DEPARTMENT. The Minnesota Department of Public Safety.
   DROP AXLE FISH HOUSE or DROP DOWN ICE FISH HOUSE. One that is built on a
frame that would be considered ground level loading. It would be made with a
solid metal frame utilizing U-shaped axles where the wheel hubs attach to the
upward tips of the U and the leaf springs attach to the lower horizontal
portion. This will allow the platform to be movable between a lower position
and a raised position. Each DROP DOWN STYLE FISH HOUSE must meet state statute
for a trailer and be licensed appropriately.
   FRONT YARD AREA. All that area between the front property line and a line
drawn along the front face or faces of the principle structure on the property
extended to the side property lines. The front side of the property shall be
determined as specified in Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances.
   GARAGEKEEPER. An operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator
of a motor vehicle storage facility or an operator of an establishment for the
servicing, repair or maintenance of motor vehicles.
   IMPROVED SURFACE. A driveway or parking area constructed of asphalt,
concrete, brick or a parking area of gravel construction (according to §
160.338(G) of this code of ordinances).
   IMPROVED SURFACE, PERMANENT. Permanent improved surfaces are those
constructed of asphalt, concrete or brick.
   INOPERABLE CONDITION. The vehicle has no substantial potential use
consistent with its usual function, and shall include a vehicle that:
      (1)   Has a missing or defective part that is necessary for the normal
operation of the vehicle; or
      (2)   Is stored on blocks or jacks or other supports.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Beverages with an alcoholic content not exceeding 3.2%.
   JUNK. Old or scrap hazard signs, copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries,
paper, synthetic or organic, trash, rubber debris, waste or junked, dismantled
or wrecked automobiles or farm or construction machinery or parts thereof,
iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or non-ferrous material.
   JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle that is located outdoors on property in the city
that meets any of the following:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle that is in inoperable condition;
      (2)   Any motor vehicle that is partially dismantled;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle that lacks vital component parts; and
      (4)   Any motor vehicle that is not currently registered and properly
licensed for operation with and by the state.
   LEGAL RESIDENT. A person who is in control of any dwelling or dwelling unit
and the dwelling or dwelling unit is used for continuous living quarters. A
person or occupant who receives U.S. mail at the dwelling or dwelling unit
shall also be a LEGAL RESIDENT of the dwelling or dwelling unit.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Any self- propelled device in, upon, or by which
any person is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, public street, or
body of water. Includes any device drawn by a self propelled vehicle and
vehicles which are propelled by electric power, including vehicles which obtain
power from overhead trolley wires, but are not operated upon rails. However,
the following are specifically excluded:
      (1)   Trailers with weight classifications of A and B (zero to 1,500
pounds and 1,501 to 3,000 pounds, respectively) as provided in state statutes;
      (2)   Manufactured, mobile and trailer homes placed on a permanent pad
located within a properly zoned manufactured home district that are used for
continuous living quarters; and
      (3)   Any vehicle moved solely by human power.
   MPCA or AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living in or in control of any dwelling unit upon
property wherein a public nuisance has been identified.
   PERSON. Any person, firm or corporation and the singular shall include the
plural.
   REGISTERED OWNER.
      (1)   Any person, firm, association or corporation, other than a secured
party, having title to a motor vehicle.
      (2)   If a vehicle is under lease for a term of 180 days or more, the
lessee is the REGISTERED OWNER if the application for renewal of the
registration is sent to the lessee.
   UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is subject to removal and impoundment
pursuant to M.S. § 607.07, subd. 3, or M.S. § 169.041, as they may be amended
from time to time, but is not a junk vehicle or an abandoned vehicle.
   UNSAFE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle located outdoors on any property or public
street within the city in which any systems including braking, steering,
suspension, electrical, lighting, motor and drive train are not functioning or
a vehicle that cannot legally be operated or is in violation of any state,
federal or local vehicle equipment or safety regulation including, but not
limited to M.S. §§ 169.468 to 169.75, as it may be amended from time to time.
   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of the motor vehicle that are essential
to the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including, but not limited to,
the motor, drive train and wheels.
(Prior Code, § 607.01) (Ord. 556, passed 03-20-1995; Ord. 620, passed 07-27-
1998; Ord. 694, passed 03-11-2002; Ord. 886, passed 04-28-2014; Ord. 898,
passed 03-23-2015; Ord. 1030, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 91.002 NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   A NUISANCE shall mean any act, substance, matter, emission or thing
which creates a dangerous or unhealthy condition or which threatens the public
peace, health, safety or sanitary condition of the city or which is offensive
or has a blighting influence on the community and which is found upon, in,
being discharged or flowing from any street, alley, highway, railroad right-of-
way, vehicle, railroad car, water, excavation, building, erection, lot, grounds
or other property located within the city.
   (B)   Nuisances shall include, but not be limited to, those enumerated
below:
      (1)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures
or endangers the safety, health, comfort or repose of members of the public;
      (2)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage, any
public road or right-of-way, street, alley or highway or waters used by the
public;
      (3)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law to be a
public nuisance and for which no sentence is specifically provided;
      (4)   Anything left or displayed for sale on public or private property
without written permission by the owner or person in control of the property
conspicuously displayed on the item left for sale may be tagged and/or towed at
the owner’s expense or its owner tagged; or
      (5)   In any way renders the public insecure in life or in use of
property.
(Ord. 556, passed 03-20-95)
§ 91.003 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   (A)   Public nuisances affecting health, safety, comfort or repose. The
following are hereby declared to be public nuisances affecting health, safety,
comfort or repose:
      (1)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
      (2)   All decayed or unwholesome food offered for sale to the public;
      (3)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death, excluding game animals;
      (4)   Accumulations of manure or rubbish;
      (5)   Privy vaults, garbage cans and garbage receptacles which are not
fly-tight;
      (6)   The effluence from any cesspool, septic tank, drain field or sewage
disposal system discharging upon the surface of the ground;
      (7)   All noxious weeds, “tall grasses” defined as anything over eight
inches in height and other rank growths, except as exempted in §
91.021(B) of this code of ordinances;
      (8)   Any accumulation of cans, bottles or trash or debris of any nature
or description, and the throwing, dumping or depositing of any dead animals,
manure, garbage, waste, decaying matter, ground, sand, stones, ashes, rubbish,
cans, glass, food containers or other material of any kind on private property;
      (9)   Trades and businesses, as defined by statute or ordinance, not
licensed as provided by law;
      (10)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal
or body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
      (11)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders in quantities
as to render the occupancy of property uncomfortable to a person;
      (12)   The distribution of samples of medicines or drugs unless the
samples are placed in the hands of an adult person by someone properly
licensed;
      (13)   The keeping, maintaining or harboring of live wild animals,
whether native to the state or not, which, in their wild state, pose a threat
to humans or domestic animals;
      (14)   The keeping, maintaining or harboring of any combination of
animals and/or fowl kept in such numbers or under such conditions that
unreasonably annoy, injure or endanger the health, safety, comfort, repose or
welfare of the public;
      (15)   The failure to maintain basic repairs and upkeep on a vacant
residence or building, including, but not limited to, snow removal, lawn
maintenance and exterior maintenance; and
      (16)   All other acts, omissions of acts, occupations and uses of
property which are deemed by the state’s Board of Health to be a menace to the
health of the inhabitants of the municipality or a considerable number thereof.
   (B)   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency. The following are
hereby declared to be public nuisances affecting public morals and decency:
      (1)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, not lawfully
allowed by state statutes;
      (2)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in such operations;
      (3)   All places where intoxicating liquors are manufactured, sold,
bartered or given away in violation of the law or where persons are permitted
to resort for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquors as a beverage
contrary to law or where intoxicating liquors are kept for sale, barter or
distribution in violations of the law and all liquors, bottles, kegs, pumps,
bars and other property kept at and used for maintaining such a place;
      (4)   Any vehicle used for the illegal transportation of intoxicating
liquor; and
      (5)   The looking into or peeping through doors, windows or openings of
private homes by methods of stealth and without proper authority and by
surreptitious methods or what is commonly known as “window peeping”.
   (C)   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety. The following are
declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and safety:
      (1)   All trees and hedges, billboards or other obstructions which
prevent persons from having a clear view of street signs and/or a clear view of
all traffic approaching an intersection;
      (2)   All limbs of trees which are less than eight feet above the surface
of any public street or alley;
      (3)   The outside piling, storing or keeping of old machinery, junk,
furniture, household furnishings or appliances or component parts thereof,
rusting metal inoperable/unusable equipment or other debris visible on private
or public property;
      (4)   The placing or throwing on any street, alley, road, highway,
sidewalk or other public property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other
substances which may injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire
when passing over the same;
      (5)   The depositing of, maintaining, permitting or failing to remove,
garbage, trash, rubbish, bottles, cans and other refuse on any property within
the city, including large quantities of organic debris and materials, which
accumulated by other than natural means, except properly maintained compost
piles;
      (6)   Property in a residential district not seeded, sodded or otherwise
planted with a ground cover more than 240 days after any disturbance to the
property caused by construction, grading or other activity; or any time prior
to the 240 days if the property is causing erosion or drainage problems on the
same or nearby properties, including the public streets;
      (7)   The outside storage of cut wood, unless all of the following
requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   Shall be stored in the side or rear yard;
         (b)   Shall be stacked or secured in a stable manner so as to avoid
collapse;
         (c)   Shall not exceed five feet in height;
         (d)   Combined stacks shall not exceed a volume of five feet high by
ten feet wide, by 25 feet long; and
         (e)   Shall not be closer than five feet from side or rear property
line unless screened by a solid fence or wall.
      (8)   All buildings, walls and other structures which have been damaged
by fire, decay or otherwise to an extent exceeding one-half of their fair
market value or which are so situated as to endanger the safety of the public;
      (9)   Any structure, or portion thereof, in a residential district whose
exterior is not completed in accordance with city-approved construction plans
within 180 days after the date the city building permit was issued, whichever
occurred first;
      (10)   Any construction materials, including piles of dirt, sand and sod,
left on the property more than 60 days after construction has been completed or
a certificate of occupancy has been issued, whichever occurred first;
      (11)   All buildings and all alterations to buildings made or erected in
violation of fire codes concerning manner, materials or construction;
      (12)   Any vehicle that deposits mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or
other material on any street or highway;
      (13)   Any discarded construction material or other litter at a
construction site which is not placed in an adequate waste container or which
is allowed to blow around or off the site;
      (14)   All explosives, inflammable liquids and other dangerous substances
or materials stored or accumulated in any manner or in any amount other than
provided by law or ordinance;
      (15)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use of the
public streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds, except under such
conditions as are provided by ordinance and any other excavation left
unprotected or uncovered indefinitely or allowed to exist in such a manner as
to attract people;
      (16)   All use or display of fireworks, except as provided by law or
ordinance;
      (17)   Radio aerials strung or erected in any manner, except that
provided by law or ordinance;
      (18)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any
use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds or people to
gather, obstructing traffic and the free use of public streets or sidewalks;
      (19)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over
public streets or sidewalks or so situated as to endanger public safety, not
constructed and maintained as provided by law or ordinance or without proper
permit;
      (20)   The allowing of rain, water, ice or snow to fall from any building
on any public street or sidewalk or to flow across any public sidewalk;
      (21)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery, equipment or other property in
any public place or so situated or operated on private property as to attract
the public;
      (22)   The distribution of handbills, except as provided by law or
ordinance;
      (23)   Throwing, dropping or releasing printed matter, paper or any other
material or objects over the city from an airplane, balloon or other aircraft
or in a manner as to cause the material to fall or land in the city;
      (24)   Placing entrance culverts or doing any act which may alter or
affect the drainage of public streets or alleys or the surface or grade of
public streets, alleys or sidewalks, without proper permit;
      (25)   Making repairs to motor vehicles or tires in public streets or
alleys, except for emergency repairs when it will not unduly impede or
interfere with traffic;
      (26)   The placement of mailboxes and other delivery receptacles on
public rights-of-way, except those which are in compliance with United States
Postal Service requirements for location and type. The post shall be installed
as far back from the street pavement as reasonably practical to avoid snow
plowing damage; and
      (27)   The placement, erecting or painting of unauthorized traffic signs
or advertising signs in streets or alleys or on sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 607.03) (Ord. 556, passed 03-20-1995; Ord. 594, passed 04-14-
1997; Ord. 694, passed 03-11-2002) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.004 SPECIAL PROVISIONS; BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures which
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they:
      (1)   Are unsightly;
      (2)   Decrease adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (3)   Adversely affect property values and neighborhood pattern.
   (B)   Standards. Any building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface shall have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface which has had a surface finish such as paint
applied shall be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface shall have peeling, cracked, chipped or
otherwise deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
      (3)   All wires which are strung less than 15 feet above the surface of
any public street or alley.
      (4)   All exterior doors and shutters shall be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   All cornices, moldings, lintels, bay or dormer windows, and similar
projections shall be kept in good repair and free from cracks and defects which
make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces shall be tight and have no defects which admit water.
All roof drainage systems shall be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennas, air vents and other similar projections shall
be structurally sound and in good repair. The projections shall be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   All foundations shall be structurally sound and in good repair.
(Prior Code, § 607.04) (Ord. 556, passed 03-20-1995) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.005 CESSPOOLS AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow the contents of any septic tank
or cesspool to be pumped or to overflow onto the ground.
(Prior Code, § 607.05) (Ord. 556, passed 03-20-1995) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.006 OUTSIDE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of vehicles, materials, supplies or equipment not
customarily used for residential purposes in violation of the requirements set
forth below is declared to be a public nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (4)   Decreases adjoining landowners and occupants’ enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (5)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   No person may place, store or allow the placement or storage of
non-drop axle ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, play houses or other similar
nonpermanent structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the
front yard area of residentially-zoned property.
      (2)   No person may place, store or allow the placement or storage of
pipe, lumber, steel, machinery or similar materials, including all materials
used in connection with a business, outside on residentially-zoned property.
      (3)   No person shall cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on any property within the city unless it
complies with the following requirements.
         (a)   Vehicles which are parked or stored outside shall be parked upon
an IMPROVED SURFACE, as defined in this code.
         (b)   All vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who is a legal resident of that
property.
      (4)    No person owning, driving or in charge of any commercial vehicle
with a gross weight classification higher than G (12,001 to 15,000 pounds) as
identified on the license plate and specified in state statutes, may cause or
permit that vehicle to be parked outside or stand continuously for more than
two hours on residential property or public street within a residential zone in
the city.
      (5)   No person owning, driving or in charge of any vehicle with more
than one rear axle chassis design or more than six wheels total may cause or
permit that vehicle to be parked outside or stand continuously for more than
two hours on residential property or public street within a residential zone in
the city.
      (6)   There shall be no more than one commercial vehicle parked upon a
single-family residential property or per dwelling unit in the case of multiple
unit dwellings.
   (C)   Exceptions. The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Any motor truck, pickup truck or similar vehicle being used by a
public utility, moving company or similar company, which is actually being used
to service a residence not belonging to or occupied by the operator of the
vehicle;
      (2)   Any vehicle which is actually making a pickup or delivery at the
location where it is parked. Parking for any period of time beyond the period
of time reasonably necessary to make such a pickup or delivery and in excess of
the two-hour limit shall be unlawful; and/or
      (3)   Any recreational vehicle owned by a person who is a legal resident
of the property where said vehicle is parked or stored shall be specifically
excluded from the requirements set forth in divisions (B)(4) and (B)(5) above.
(Prior Code, § 607.06) (Ord. 620, passed 07-27-1998; Ord. 694, passed 03-11-
2002; Ord. 886, passed 04-28-2014; Ord. 898, passed 03-23-2015; Ord. 1030,
passed 3-10-2025)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.007 VEHICLES CONSTITUTING PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Findings and purpose. Abandoned, junk and unsafe vehicles constitute a
hazard to the health and welfare of the citizens of the city in that the
vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish shelter and breeding places for
vermin, present physical dangers to the safety and well-being of children and
other citizens, invite plundering and create fire hazards. Motor vehicles
contain fluids that if released into the environment can and do cause
significant health risks to the citizens of the city. The condition of vehicles
that are abandoned, junk or unsafe significantly increase the likelihood that
these dangerous fluids might be so released. Abandoned, junk or unsafe vehicles
and other scrap metals also constitute a blight on the landscape of the city
and, therefore, a detriment to the environment. The abandonment and retirement
of vehicles and other scrap metals constitutes a waste of a valuable source of
useful metal. It is, therefore, in the public interest that the present
accumulation of abandoned and junk vehicles and other scrap metals be
eliminated, that future abandonment of vehicles and other scrap metals be
prevented, that the expansion of existing scrap recycling facilities be
developed and that other acceptable and economically useful methods for the
disposal of abandoned and junk vehicles and other forms of scrap metal be
developed.
   (B)   Abandoned, junk and unsafe vehicles.
      (1)   General. Abandoned, junk and unsafe vehicles are declared to be a
public nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety of the public
because they invite plundering, create fire hazards, attract vermin and present
physical dangers to the safety and well-being of children and other citizens.
The accumulation and outside storage of the vehicles is in the nature of
rubbish, litter and unsightly debris and is a blight on the landscape and
detriment to the environment. No person in charge or control of any property
within the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise shall
store or keep abandoned, junk and unsafe motor vehicles on private or public
property.
      (2)   Vehicles stopped or standing. Any vehicle, whether occupied or not,
that is found stopped, standing or parked in violation of any ordinance or
state statute; or that is reported stolen; or that is found impeding
firefighting, show removal or plowing or the orderly flow of traffic, is
declared to be a public nuisance.
      (3)   Vehicles blocking access. Any vehicle which is impeding public road
or utility repair, construction or maintenance activities after reasonable
notice of the improper activities has been given to the vehicle owner or user
at least 12 hours in advance, is declared to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   Authority to impound vehicles.
      (1)   Vehicles constituting a public nuisance. The City Administrator,
City Administrator’s designee or any peace officer employed or whose services
are contracted for by the city may take into custody and impound any vehicle
constituting a public nuisance under division (B) above.
      (2)   Unauthorized vehicles. The City Administrator, City Administrator’s
designee or any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by
the city may take into custody and impound any unauthorized vehicle under M.S.
§ 169.041, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   When a vehicle may be impounded without prior notice. A motor vehicle
may be impounded with or without citation without giving notice to its owner
only under the following circumstances. In a public location not governed by
M.S. § 169.041, as it may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   When the vehicle is impeding or is likely to impede the normal flow
of vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
      (2)   When the vehicle poses an immediate danger to the public safety;
      (3)   When the vehicle is parked in violation of snow emergency removal
routes;
      (4)   When a peace officer or other agent authorized by the city has
probable cause to believe that the vehicle constitutes evidence of a crime, or
contains evidence of a crime, if impoundment is reasonably necessary in such
instance to obtain or preserve evidence;
      (5)   When the person driving, operating or in physical control of the
vehicle is taken into custody and the vehicle is impounded for safe keeping;
      (6)   When the vehicle is parked in a handicap transfer zone when the
vehicle does not properly display a handicapped parking permit;
      (7)   When the vehicle is obstructing firefighting or firefighting
equipment; or
      (8)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize seizure of
a vehicle without a warrant where a warrant would otherwise be required.
   (E)   When a vehicle may be impounded after notice. A vehicle not impounded
under division (D) above may be impounded after a notice of violation described
in §
91.009(C) of this chapter has been served upon the owner of the property where
the vehicle is located and an additional notice similar to that in §
91.009(D)(2) of this chapter is securely posted on the vehicle. The vehicle
shall not be impounded until a period of 72 hours has elapsed after the initial
posting of the notice on the vehicle, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays for the following reasons:
      (1)   When such vehicle, whether occupied or not, is found stopped,
standing or parked in violation of any city ordinance; and
      (2)   When the vehicle is determined to constitute a public nuisance, as
defined in division (B) above.
   (F)   Sale; waiting periods.
      (1)   Sale after 15 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal
or sale under division (J) below, 15 days after notice to the owner, if the
vehicle is deemed to be:
         (a)   A junk vehicle; except that, it may have a valid current
registration plate and still be eligible for disposal or sale under this
division (F)(1); or
         (b)   An abandoned or unsafe vehicle.
      (2)   Sale after 45 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal
or sale under division (J) below, 45 days after notice to the owner, if the
vehicle is determined to be an unauthorized vehicle.
   (G)   Notice of taking and sale.
      (1)   Contents; notice given within five days. When an impounded vehicle
is taken into custody, the city or impound lot operator taking it into custody
shall give notice of the taking within five days. The notice shall:
         (a)   Set forth the date and place of the taking; the year, make,
model and serial number of the impounded motor vehicle if the information can
be reasonably obtained; and the place where the vehicle is being held;
         (b)   Inform the owner and any lienholders of their right to reclaim
the vehicle under division (H) below; and
         (c)   State that failure of the owner or leinholders to exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle and contents within the appropriate time allowed
under division (F) above shall be deemed a waiver by them of all right, title
and interest in the vehicle and contents and a consent to the transfer of title
to and disposal or sale of the vehicle and contents pursuant to division (J)
below.
      (2)   Notice by mail or publication. The notice shall be sent by mail to
the registered owner, if any, of an impounded vehicle and to all readily
identifiable lienholders of record. If it is impossible to determine with
reasonable certainty the identity and address of the registered owner and all
lienholders, the notice shall be published once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area where the motor vehicle was towed from or abandoned.
Published notices may be grouped together for convenience and economy.
      (3)   Unauthorized vehicles; notice. If an unauthorized vehicle remains
unclaimed 30 days from the date the notice was sent under division (G)(1)
above, a second notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the registered owner, if any, of the unauthorized vehicle and to
all readily identifiable lienholders of record.
   (H)   Right to reclaim.
      (1)   Payment of charges. The owner or any lienholder of an impounded
vehicle shall have a right to reclaim the vehicle form the city or impound lot
operator taking it into custody upon payment of all towing and storage charges
resulting from taking the vehicle into custody within 15 or 45 days as
applicable under division (F) above, after the date of the notice required by
division (G) above. To reclaim a motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this
section, the owner or lienholder must pay any costs and administrative fees
incurred by the city and must agree to relocate the vehicle in accordance with
local, state and federal regulations. The owner or lienholder reclaiming the
vehicle shall sign a “release of property” and shall agree to immediate
impoundment without notice if the vehicle again violates this section. In
addition, the city may require a bond to be posted if said vehicle has been
subject to a prior impoundment.
      (2)   Lienholders. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to
impair any lien of a garagekeeper under the laws of the state, or the right of
a lienholder to foreclose.
   (I)   Operators deficiency claim; consent to sale.
      (1)   Deficiency claim. The non-public impound lot operator has a
deficiency claim against the registered owner of the vehicle for the reasonable
costs of services provided the towing, storage and inspection of the vehicle
minus the proceeds of the sale or auction. The claim for storage costs may not
exceed the costs of:
         (a)   Twenty-five days storage for a vehicle described in division (F)
(1) above; and
         (b)   Fifty-five days storage for a vehicle described in division (F)
(2) above.
      (2)   Implied consent to sale. A registered owner who fails to claim the
impounded vehicle within the applicable period allowed under division (H) above
is deemed to waive any rights to reclaim the vehicle and contents to the
disposal or sale of the vehicle and its contents and transfer of title.
   (J)   Disposition by impound lot.
      (1)   Auction or sale.
         (a)   If a vehicle and contents taken into custody by the city or any
impound lot is not reclaimed under division (H) above, it may be disposed of or
sold at auction or sale when eligible pursuant to division (I) above and this
division (J).
         (b)   The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title to dispose of
the vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the
vehicle and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and
claims of ownership. Before a vehicle is issued a new certificate of title, it
must receive a motor vehicle safety check.
      (2)   Unsold vehicles. Vehicles not sold by the city or impound lot
pursuant to division (J)(1) above shall be disposed of in accordance with
division (K) below.
      (3)   Sale proceeds, public entities. From the proceeds of the sale under
this section of vehicles constituting a public nuisance, the city shall
reimburse itself for the cost of towing, preserving and storing the vehicle and
all administrative, notice and publication costs incurred in handling the
vehicle pursuant to this subchapter. Any remainder from the proceeds of a sale
shall be held for the owner of the vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days
and then shall be deposited in the treasury of the city.
      (4)   Sale proceeds, non-public impound lots. The operator of a non-
public impound lot may retain any proceeds derived from a sale conducted under
authority of division (J)(1) above. The operator may retain all proceeds from
the sale of personal belongings and contents in the vehicle that were not
claimed by the owner or the owner’s agent before the sale; except that, any
suspected contraband or other items that likely would be subject to forfeiture
in a criminal trial must be turned over to the appropriate law enforcement
agency.
   (K)   Disposal authority. The city may contract with others or may utilize
its own equipment and personnel for the inventory of impounded motor vehicles
and scrap metal and may utilize its own equipment and personnel for the
collection, storage and transportation of these vehicles and scrap metal. The
city may utilize its own equipment and personnel only for the collection and
storage of not more than five abandoned, junk, unsafe or unauthorized vehicles
without advertising or receiving bids in any 120-day period.
   (L)   Contracts; reimbursement by MPCA.
      (1)   If the city proposes to enter into a contract with a person
licensed by the MPCA pursuant to this section or a contract pursuant to
division (K) above, the MPCA may review the proposed contract before it is
entered into by the city, to determine whether it conforms to the MPCA’s plan
for solid waste management and is in compliance with MPCA rules. A contract
that does so conform may be approved by the MPCA and entered into by the city.
Where a contract has been approved, the MPCA may reimburse the city for costs
incurred under the contract that have not been reimbursed under division (J)
above. Except as otherwise provided in division (K) above, the MPCA shall not
approve any contract that has been entered into without prior notice to and
request for bids from all persons duly licensed by the MPCA to be a party to a
disposal contract pursuant to M.S. § 116.07, as it may be amended from time to
time; does not provide for a full performance bond; or does not provide for
total collection or transportation of abandoned, junk and unsafe motor
vehicles; except that, the MPCA may approve a contract covering solely
collection or transportation of abandoned, junk and unsafe motor vehicles where
the MPCA determines total collection and transportation to be impractical and
where all other requirements herein have been met and the unit of government,
after proper notice and request for bids, has not received any bid for total
collection and transportation of abandoned, junk and unsafe motor vehicles.
      (2)   If the city utilizes its own equipment and personnel pursuant to
its authority under division (K) above, and the use of the equipment and
personnel conforms to the MPCA’s plan for solid waste management and is in
compliance with MPCA rules, the city may be reimbursed by the MPCA for
reasonable costs incurred which are not reimbursed under division (J) above.
      (3)   If the MPCA demands that the city contract for the disposal of
impounded vehicles and other scrap metal pursuant to the MPCA’s plan for solid
waste disposal and the city fails to contract within 180 days of the demand,
the MPCA, through the Department of Administration and on behalf of the city,
may contract with any person duly licensed by the MPCA for the disposal.
(Prior Code, § 607.07) (Ord. 694, passed 03-11-2002; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.008 NOISE CONTROL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Loud or unnecessary noises prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to make or cause to be made any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which
either annoys, disturbs or affects the comfort, repose, health or peace of
others.
   (B)   Loud or disturbing noises enumerated; restrictions. The following acts
set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) below are declared to be loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but the
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Construction or repairing of buildings. The erection, including
excavating, demolition, alteration or repair of any building between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., Monday through Sunday. The City Administrator may
grant authority for work to occur at any time in the event of an emergency or
when it is found that the activity would not affect the health, safety, comfort
and repose of persons in the vicinity;
      (2)   Nighttime noise in residential areas; parties.
         (a)   No person shall, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.,
participate in any loud party or gathering of people from which noise emanates
of a sufficient volume as to disturb the peace, quiet or repose of persons
residing in any residential area.
         (b)   Loud noises between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of a
volume as to be plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet from the residential
premises wherein a loud party or gathering is located shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
         (c)   No persons shall visit or remain within any residential dwelling
unit wherein a loud party gathering is taking place, except the owner, persons
residing in that unit or persons who are there for the sole purpose of abating
the disturbance.
      (3)   Stereos, radios, tape players, disc players and the like. Operation
of a stereo, radio, tape player, disc player or any such device at any time in
a motor vehicle in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50
feet from the vehicle shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 607.08) (Ord. 556, passed 03-20-1995; Ord. 612, passed 04-13-
1998; Ord. 694, passed 03-11-2002; Ord. 789, passed 05-29-2007; Ord. 844,
passed 05-20-2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.009 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Council to enforce the provisions
of this subchapter and the City Council may, by resolution, delegate to other
officers or agencies power to enforce particular provisions of this section,
including the power to inspect private premises, and the officers charged with
the enforcement of this subchapter shall take all reasonable precautions to
prevent the commission and maintenance of public nuisances.
      (2)   The City Administrator or designee is authorized to enter upon any
property if necessary to determine whether the provisions of this code or any
applicable state statute has been violated, to make any examinations or surveys
or to conduct any tests as may be reasonably necessary in the performance of
their duties. All inspection and testing must be done in a reasonable manner.
   (B)   Notice to owner or to person or persons responsible. Whenever it is
determined upon investigation by the officer charged with enforcement that a
public nuisance is being maintained or exists within the city, a notice of
violation shall be served upon the owner or the person or persons responsible
therefor in the manner prescribed in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   Form. The notice of violation described in division (B) above shall be
in accordance with all of the following:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations, and why the
notice is being issued; and
      (4)   Include a corrective order allowing a reasonable time to make the
corrections and improvements required to bring the property or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code.
   (D)   Method of service. The notice of violation shall be properly served.
      (1)   The notice of violation shall be deemed to be properly served if a
copy thereof is:
         (a)   Delivered personally;
         (b)   Sent by first-class U.S. mail addressed to the person listed as
the taxpayer on the county’s tax records; or
         (c)   Posted on the premises if the premises are not occupied, or the
address of the owner is unknown and no other responsible party can be
reasonably identified.
      (2)   When an enforcement officer shall find a vehicle parked in
violation of §
91.007 of this chapter, the officer shall cause additional notice to be placed
upon the vehicle in substantially the following form:
         (a)   Notice to the owner and all persons interested in the attached
property:
 
NOTICE TO THE OWNER AND ALL PERSONS INTERESTED IN THE ATTACHED PROPERTY
 
This property,  (setting forth brief description)  , is unlawfully upon
property known as  (setting forth brief description of location)  and in
violation of § 91.007 of the Municipal Code and, therefore, is declared to
constitute a public nuisance and must be removed within 72 hours from the date
of this notice. If this vehicle is not removed from the premises or placed in a
lawful garage or storage building on or before  (setting forth date and time)
it shall be removed by order of the city.
 
Dated this:  (setting forth date of posting of notice)
 
Signed:  (setting forth name, title, address and telephone number of
enforcement officer)
 
 
         (b)   The notice shall be not less than eight inches by ten inches and
shall be sufficiently weather-proof to withstand exposure to the elements.
   (E)   Abatement. Except for vehicles constituting a public nuisance, which
shall follow the procedures set forth in §
91.007 of this chapter, all violations of this subchapter may be corrected by
abatement by the city at the expense of the property owner, occupant or other
responsible party following the procedures listed herein.
      (1)   If the owner, occupant or other responsible party does not comply
with the notice of violation within the time specified therein, the City
Council may, after notice to the owner and occupant or other responsible party
and an opportunity to be heard, provide for abating the nuisance by the city.
      (2)   The notice shall be served in the same manner as prescribed in
division (D) above and shall be given at least ten days before the date stated
in the notice when the Council will consider the matter.
      (3)   If the notice of violation was served by posting, at least 30 days
shall elapse between the day of posting and the hearing.
   (F)   Summary abatement. The enforcing officer may provide for abating a
public nuisance without following the procedure required in division (E) above
when:
      (1)   There is an immediate threat to the public health or safety;
      (2)   There is an immediate threat of serious property damage;
      (3)   A public nuisance has been caused by private parties on public
property; and
      (4)   If the enforcing officer abates the nuisance pursuant to this
section, the officer must reasonably attempt to notify the owner, occupant or
other responsible party of the action and inform the owner, occupant or other
responsible party of the right to appeal any cost at the next regularly
scheduled City Council meeting.
   (G)   Cost recovery.
      (1)   The owner of property on which a nuisance has been abated by the
city, or a person who has caused a public nuisance on property not owned by
that person, shall be personally liable to the city for the cost of abatement,
including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been completed and the
cost determined, the City Administrator or his or her designee shall prepare a
bill for the cost, plus an additional 10%, and mail it to the owner or other
responsible party. Thereupon, the amount shall be immediately due and payable
at the office of the City Administrator.
      (2)   The City Administrator or City Administrator’s designee shall keep
a record of the costs of abatements done under this section and shall report
monthly all work done to the appropriate officer for which assessments are to
be made, stating and certifying the description of the land, lots, parcels
involved and the amount assessable to each.
   (H)   Assessment.
      (1)   If the cost, or any portion of it, has not been paid under division
(G) above, within 30 days after the date of the bill, the unpaid cost may be
certified against the property to which the cost is attributable.
      (2)   On or before September 1 of each year, the City Administrator or
City Administrator’s designee shall list the total unpaid charges for each
abatement against each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable.
      (3)   Before certification against the property, reasonable notice of the
impending certification and an opportunity to be heard by the City Council must
be given to the taxpayer of record.
      (4)   Failure of the taxpayer to receive the notice shall not invalidate
the certification, however.
      (5)   The City Council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof
against the property involved as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as
it may be amended from time to time, and other pertinent statutes, for
certification to the County Auditor for collection the following year along
with current taxes or in annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the City
Council may determine in each case.
   (I)   Landlord’s liability.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (I), OWNER is defined to include
corporations and partnerships as well as individual owners.
      (2)   Violation of the noise control regulations shall be the act of the
owner of the residential dwelling unit as well as the persons on the premises
who violate the regulations; except that, the owner shall be liable only for
those violations occurring after receipt of written notice from the city of
violation of the noise control regulations having occurred at the residential
dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 607.09) (Ord. 694, passed 03-11-2002; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010; Ord. 556, passed 03-20-1995; Ord. 694, passed 03-11-2002)
WEEDS
§ 91.020 PERMITTING EXCESSIVE GROWTH OF GRASS AND WEEDS UNLAWFUL.
   (A)    All uncultivated grass and noxious weeds, as defined by the Minnesota
Department of Agriculture’s “Noxious Weed List”, are hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or controlling any plot of
ground to permit the growth of the weeds thereon.
   (C)   To prevent the growth of the weeds under decks, any person owning or
controlling any deck less than four feet above grade shall install a visqueen
or weed screen under the deck with not less than two inches of gravel placed on
top of screening for securing same.
(Prior Code, § 606.01) (Ord. 1030, passed 3-10-2025)Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.021 DESTRUCTION OF WEEDS BY OWNER.
   (A)   All such grass and weeds shall be cut, pulled or destroyed whenever
they shall exceed a height of eight inches.
   (B)   The following areas and types of vegetation are exempted from this
provision if managed in a manner so as not to become infested with noxious
weeds or to create a stagnant, foul smelling condition:
      (1)   Native wetland vegetation found in wetlands designated as part of
the city’s wetland zoning district, or in floodplains, drainage ponds or
ditches which store and convey storm water;
      (2)   Native vegetation found in natural areas which are part of public
open space, parks and nature centers;
      (3)   Areas on any occupied lot or parcel of land having wetland-type
vegetation because of neighborhood drainage patterns, where the drainage
pattern is evident on contour maps and from field observation, and the
vegetation is confined to a single lot, separated from adjacent lots and
managed so as not to be a nuisance;
      (4)   An area where the land and vegetation appear not to have been
graded, landscaped, mowed or otherwise disturbed by human or mechanical means
at any time. The Director of Community Development shall use reasonable
judgement in determining what constitutes this type of area based on the
present appearance of the area and research as to the history of the area if
the information is available; and
      (5)   An area of at least five acres used by an educational institution
or public agency for prairie land restoration, if the prior vegetation is
eliminated and the prairie vegetation is planted through transplanting or seed.
The area shall be cut at least once per year to a height of no more than eight
inches if weeds cover more than 25% of the area. If the mowing is necessary and
the area is likely to be seen by the public, a sign shall be posted advising
that a meadow or prairie is being established. The size of the sign shall be
one square foot and it shall be no higher than three feet.
(Prior Code, § 606.02) (Ord. 594, passed 04-14-1997) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.022 DESTRUCTION BY CITY AUTHORITY.
   When the owner or person in control of any plot of ground fails to destroy
grasses or weeds growing thereon as provided herein, the Superintendent of
Public Works of the city shall destroy or cause to be cut the grasses or weeds
and any expense incurred by the city under the authority of the Superintendent
of Public Works in so doing shall be a charge against the owner or other person
so failing, which may be recovered on behalf of the city by recording a lien
against the property for the cost of the cutting or by instituting an
appropriate action at law. The cost shall be an amount as determined by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 606.03)
§ 91.023 LIEN PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice of lien.
      (1)   If weeds are cut by the city or by someone directed to cut them on
behalf of the city, a notice of lien of the cost and expense thereof incurred
by said city shall be recorded in the following manner: the city or the person
performing the service by authority of the city, in its or a person’s own name,
may file notice of lien in the office of the county’s Recorder of Deeds. The
notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
         (a)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
         (b)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred
or payable for the service; and
         (c)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
city.
      (2)   Such statement shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and
expense is incurred.
   (B)   Release of lien. Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice of
lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the city or person in whose
name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in the
same manner as filing notice of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 606.04)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person in violation of any of the provisions in §§
91.001 through
91.009 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day on which the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 607.09)
      (2)   Any person who abandons a vehicle on any public or private
property, per §
91.006 of this chapter, without the consent of the person in control of the
property, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 607.06)
   (C)   In addition to liability for the cost of destruction of weeds by the
city, the owner or person in control of any such plot of ground in the city
failing to destroy the weeds thereon within the designated periods of time as
provided in §§
91.020 through
91.023 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine as
determined by the city. Each day on which the owner or person in control of any
such plot of ground shall fail or refuse to comply with the requirements of §§
91.020 through
91.023 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 606.05) (Ord. 556, passed 03-20-1995; Ord. 620, passed 07-27-
1998; Ord. 694, passed 03-11-2002; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 886,
passed 04-28-2014; Ord. 898, passed 03-23-2015)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.001   Purpose
   
92.002   Definitions
   
92.003   Construction and scope
   
92.004   Hours and access
   
92.005   Permits
   
92.006   Special activities
   
92.007   General conduct
   
92.008   Traffic rules
   
92.009   Additional rules and regulations
 
   
92.999   Penalty
§ 92.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted to govern the conduct of members of the public
during their use and enjoyment of the city’s open space system so as to further
the safety, health, enjoyment and welfare of all persons in the use of those
facilities and to protect public property and resources for posterity.
(Prior Code, § 909.01) (Ord. 557, passed 03-27-1995)
§ 92.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The City of Mounds View Parks and Recreation Department.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Parks and Recreation. The person authorized by the
City Council to direct the Department of Parks and Recreation.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any person duly deputized or commissioned by the
city, Board of County Commissioners or the state for the purpose of enforcing
the laws, ordinances and regulations of their respective jurisdictions.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every vehicle which is self-propelled and does not derive its power
from overhead wires.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLES include, but shall not be limited to, automobiles,
trucks, motor bikes, mini bikes, all-terrain vehicles and snowmobiles, with the
exception of battery powered wheelchairs.
   OPEN SPACE SITE. Any park, reserve, special use area, golf course, linear
park or any other area owned, improved maintained, operated or otherwise
controlled by the city for recreation and natural resource preservation
purposes.
   OPEN SPACE WATERS. Any public shoreline owned by or under the authority of
the city.
   PARK. Any area designed or used for active or passive recreation and which
is owned, operated or controlled by the city or controlled by another
government unit.
   PARK SYSTEM. The city’s park system which includes the sites and facilities
owned, maintained and operated by or otherwise under the authority of the city.
(Prior Code, § 909.02) (Ord. 557, passed 03-27-1995)
§ 92.003 CONSTRUCTION AND SCOPE.
   In the interpretation of this chapter, all provisions contained are to be
construed as follows.
   (A)   Any requirement or prohibition by any provision extends to and
includes the causing, procuring, aiding or abetting directly or indirectly, of
such acts; and the permitting or allowing any minor by the responsible parent,
guardian or custodian to commit any such act.
   (B)   No provision shall make unlawful any act necessarily performed by any
law enforcement officer or Department employee in the line of duty or work as
such, or by any person, that person’s agents or employees, in the proper and
necessary execution of the terms of any contract or agreement with the city.
   (C)   Any act otherwise prohibited by statute or local ordinances, is lawful
if performed under, by virtue of and strictly within the provisions of a
Department permit to do so, and to the extent authorized thereby.
(Prior Code, § 909.03) (Ord. 557, passed 03-27-1995)
§ 92.004 HOURS AND ACCESS.
   (A)   The recreation and education opportunities of the system are available
to all members of the public regardless of race, sex, age, creed, national
origin or place of residency.
   (B)   (1)   The park system shall be open to the public between the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., prevailing time in the city. No person shall remain,
stop, use or be present within the confines of any open space site between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Exceptions may be made at the discretion of
the Director in the case of emergency or when use permits have been authorized
or for other reasons the Director may determine necessary or desirable.
      (2)   Open space sites are subject to curfew hours in force in the city.
   (C)   Any section or part of any open space site may be declared closed to
the public by the Director at any time or for any interval of time, either
temporarily or at regular and stated intervals, and either entirely or for
certain uses as the Director shall find necessary.
(Prior Code, § 909.04) (Ord. 557, passed 03-27-1995)
§ 92.005 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits are required for the exclusive use of all or portions of
specific areas, buildings and other system facilities; and for conducting
special events such as those of a cultural, educational, political, religious
or recreational nature; and for specific exemption from any provision of this
chapter. Any person, group or association of persons required to obtain a
permit must file an application for a permit with the Director.
   (B)   The grantee of a permit is bound by this chapter and any department
regulations in force as though the same were inserted in the permit.
   (C)   The grantee of a permit is liable for any loss, damage or injury
sustained by the system or by any person whatever, by reason of the negligence
of the person or persons to whom the permits are issued.
   (D)   The grantee of a permit may not transfer or relinquish the permit to
another person or group of persons without the written permission of the
Director.
   (E)   The Director may revoke a permit upon evidence of a violation of this
chapter.
   (F)   No person may disturb, harass or interfere with the grantee of a valid
permit, nor with any of the grantee’s property or equipment.
   (G)   Permits may be issued to adults only and an adult must be on the
premises at all times during the duration of the permit.
   (H)   No person or group may place or keep any goods, wares, merchandise or
other articles on park property or facilities without the written permission of
the Director.
   (I)   No person may use park facilities such as picnic areas, ballfields,
tennis courts or volleyball courts which have been reserved by another party,
or to conduct picnic activity at reservation picnic sites in violation of a
permit.
(Prior Code, § 909.05) (Ord. 557, passed 03-27-1995) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.006 SPECIAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Swimming.
      (1)   No person may bathe, wade or swim in any open space waters or at
any city beach, except in such areas specifically designated for such use, and
only at such times when a “beach open” sign is posted and an authorized
lifeguard is on duty.
      (2)   No person may bathe, wade or swim at any beach, except when dressed
in bathing attire which is conducive to water safety.
      (3)   No person may use at any beach any inner tube, water wings, raft,
U.S. Coast Guard-approved life jackets when properly attached or other
inflatable or buoyant object, except if parents or a guardian adult is in the
water with the child and is within arm’s reach.
      (4)   No person may possess, carry onto or scatter on any beach, any
glass container, broken glass, metal can or other debris which could be a
safety hazard.
      (5)   No person having custody of any animal may permit the animal to
enter any beach area during the swimming season so established by the Director.
      (6)   No person may launch, dock or operate any watercraft in any
designated swimming area.
      (7)   No person may violate the rules of Lakeside Park.
   (B)   Bicycling.
      (1)   No person may ride or operate a bicycle in any open space site,
except on designated bikeways or surfaces normally provided for vehicular
traffic.
      (2)   Persons riding a bicycle must observe and obey all traffic and
directional signs.
      (3)   No person may ride or operate a bicycle in any open space site,
except in a prudent and careful manner, and unless the person shall be capable
of effective control and operation of the vehicle. Pedestrians and motorized
vehicles shall have the right-of-way where a bikeway intersects pedestrian
trails or roadways.
      (4)   No person may ride or operate a bicycle in any open space site
faster than is reasonable and safe, with regard to the safety of the operator
and other persons in the immediate area.
      (5)   No person may ride or operate a bicycle in any open space site 30
minutes after sunset and 30 minutes before sunrise without appropriate front
and rear lighting.
      (6)   All bicycle riders must remain in single file and proceed in the
extreme right-hand lane of a drive or bikeway at all times, except when passing
another vehicle or bicyclist parked or traveling in the same direction.
      (7)   Bicycles must be parked in locations, wherever provided, set aside
specifically for their storage.
   (C)   Boating.
      (1)   No person may on any lake, pond or stream within the city use any
mechanically propelled watercraft unless being used for emergency rescue or the
maintenance of the lake, pond or stream.
      (2)   No person may operate any watercraft on any open space waters
contrary to or in violation of state law.
      (3)   No person may operate, row or paddle a boat, canoe or other
watercraft on any open space waters unless able to handle the same with safety
to themselves, other occupants or in a manner as not to annoy or endanger the
occupants of other boats.
      (4)   No person may leave any watercraft unattended, except in areas
specifically designated for mooring, anchoring or beaching.
      (5)   No person may operate watercraft within an area which has been
designated as a swimming area.
      (6)   No person may drop or throw from any watercraft garbage, litter or
other debris.
      (7)   All watercraft launched from a system facility or operating on open
space waters must have a Coast Guard-approved life preserver for each occupant.
      (8)   No person may operate any watercraft in a careless or reckless
manner.
   (D)   Motorized recreation vehicle.
      (1)   No person shall operate a motorized recreation vehicle within any
open space site, except in such areas specifically designated for such use.
      (2)   No person may operate a non-licensed vehicle on any parkway or
other roadway within an open space site.
      (3)   No person may place any vehicle for sale or exchange on park
property.
      (4)   No person may wash, grease, repair, change oil or maintain in any
way a vehicle, except as necessary in an emergency.
   (E)   Camping. No person may establish or maintain any camp or other
temporary lodging or sleeping place in any open space site.
(Prior Code, § 909.06) (Ord. 557, passed 03-27-1995; Ord. 955, passed 03-11-
2019) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.007 GENERAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   Defacement, destruction of property and resources.
      (1)   No person may tamper with, climb on, injure, deface, destroy,
disturb, damage, move or remove any part of any park building, portable
bathrooms, structure, sign, fight pole, drinking fountain, hydrant, picnic
table, grill, trash receptacle, equipment, statue or other property found
therein. This does not prohibit appropriate use of play equipment.
      (2)   No person may deface, disturb or remove in any manner any soil,
artifact, fossil, rock or other mineral resource.
      (3)   No person may excavate any ditch, trench, tunnel or hole in any
open space site.
      (4)   No person may erect or maintain a shelter, hockey goals or other
structures on the ice unless the structure is portable and removed each day.
   (B)   Preservation of vegetation.
      (1)   No person may injure, cut, destroy, mutilate, uproot, disturb or
remove any flower, tree, shrub or any plant whether wild or cultivated, or any
part thereof.
      (2)   No person may plant or cause to be planted any wild, cultivated or
exotic tree, shrub or plant, except in specifically designated areas with the
written permission of the Director.
      (3)   No person may fell or climb any tree; pick any flowers, fruit or
vegetable (not self-grown); trample any flowers, tree seedlings, flowerbeds,
vegetable gardens or new turf seedlings.
      (4)   No person may hitch any animal or fasten, anchor or otherwise
attach any wire, rope, cable, signs, posters or other articles to any tree,
shrub or plant.
      (5)   No person may make any unauthorized use of any open space site
which is detrimental to the turf and soil conditions.
      (6)   No person may remove any device, apparatus or material installed
for the protection, support or preservation of any tree, shrub or plant.
      (7)   No person may construct or place any type of structure including,
but not limited to, deer tree stands, playhouses, treehouses, temporary storage
buildings, motorcycle or bicycle launches, temporary shelters, tents, tarps,
canopies or other such devices upon park land without permission by the
Director.
   (C)   Animals.
      (1)   No person owning, being in custody, or having control of an animal,
whether wild, pet or domestic, may cause or allow the animal to roam or be at
large in any open space site.
      (2)   No person being in custody of any animal may permit said animal to
enter any beach area, nature interpretive area, wildlife refuge, golf course or
park building, whether leashed or otherwise, except trained animals assisting
disabled persons.
      (3)   No person in custody of any pet or animal may allow the animal to
disturb, harass or interfere with other open space users or their property.
      (4)   No person may feed wild animals or birds or deposit a food source
for wild animals or birds in the park system.
      (5)   Any unattended domestic animal or pet found roaming or at large
within any open space site will be impounded.
      (6)   All state and local ordinances relating to the licensing and
muzzling of animals and pets apply to any open space site.
      (7)   No person may release or possess any exotic or wild animal in any
open space site without written permission of the Director.
      (8)   It is unlawful for any person who owns, harbors or has custody of a
dog, cat or other animal to permit the animal to defecate on any public
property unless the person immediately removes the excrement and properly
disposes of it.
   (D)   Hunting, fishing and molesting wildlife.
      (1)   No person may kill, hunt, trap, pursue, injure, molest or
unnecessarily disturb or have in possession any species of wildlife including
birds, waterfowl, fish or other animals found within the confines of any open
space site; except that, fishing may be permitted in designated areas subject
to laws and regulations as established by the state.
      (2)   No person may rob, disturb or molest the nest, eggs or young of any
birds, or other animals within the confines of any open space site.
   (E)   Fires.
      (1)   No person may start or maintain a fire in any open space site,
except small recreational fires in fireplaces, fire rings and grills provided
for that purpose in areas specifically designed for such use. Private grills
may be used in designated areas provided that all ashes and residue are
disposed of in containers provided for the disposal.
      (2)   Any person who starts or maintains a fire in an authorized area
must exercise continuous supervision from the time the fire is kindled until it
is extinguished. No fire may cause damage or constitute a threat to site
vegetation and resources, nor may it cause discomfort to other open space
users.
      (3)   The Director may, at the Director’s discretion, prohibit fires for
limited periods at any location for any purpose when it is necessary for the
continued protection of park property and resources.
      (4)   Minors are prohibited from possessing any means of starting a fire
in city open space sites.
   (F)   Waste and litter.
      (1)   No person may throw, cast, drop, pour, spill or discharge, or
permit to escape in or upon any land, pond, river, creek, stream, ditch, storm
sewer or drain flowing into or through any open space site, any substance,
matter or thing whether solid, liquid or gas, which may result in the pollution
of the waters, interfere with the conservation management of the water resource
or endanger the health of the public.
      (2)   No person may deposit in public trash receptacles any household
refuse, including all organic material resulting from the manufacture,
preparation or serving of food or food products; spoiled, decayed or waste
products from any source; bottles, cans or glassware; paper or paper products;
crockery, ashes, rags, discarded clothing, tree or lawn clippings, leaves,
weeds, waste resulting from building construction, remodeling or demolition;
and other waste products, unless the refuse is the result of activities in the
park in which the public receptacles are located.
      (3)   No person may drop, throw or otherwise leave unattended in any open
space site lighted matches, burning cigars, cigarettes, tobacco, paper or other
combustible material.
   (G)   Firearms, weapons, fireworks.
      (1)   No person may possess, fire, discharge, or set off any firearm,
missile, fireworks or explosives in any open space site. Permits for fireworks
will only be issued upon proof of adequate insurance and compliance with state
statutes.
      (2)   No person, except a law enforcement officer, shall possess or carry
a firearm of any description in any open space site. No person may possess or
carry in any open space site any air gun, bow and arrow, knife with a blade
greater than three inches, slingshot, dart or projectile thrower, or any other
dangerous or illegal weapon.
      (3)   Any unauthorized or illegal weapon within an open space site is
subject to seizure by a law enforcement officer.
   (H)   Disturbing the peace; conduct.
      (1)   No person, or group of persons, may disturb the peace and good
order in any open space site by either word or act.
      (2)   No person, or group of persons, may engage in fighting, quarreling,
wrangling, riotous clamor or tumult.
      (3)   No person, or group of persons, may disturb, harass or interfere
with any open space user or the user’s property.
      (4)   No person may solicit or ask anyone to commit, perform or engage in
any lewd, lascivious, obscene or indecent act or behavior.
   (I)   Audio devices. No person may operate or play any musical instrument,
radio, television, record or tape players, loudspeaker, public address system
or sound amplifying equipment of any kind in any open space site in such as
manner that the sound emanating therefrom is audible beyond the immediate
vicinity of the set or instrument, and subsequently interferes with the use of
the open space site by other users or disturbs the residents of adjacent
property.
   (J)   Loitering. No person may lurk or loiter in or around any toilet
facility or other system structure, except to use the facility for the purpose
of which it is intended.
   (K)   Alcoholic and intoxicating beverages.
      (1)   No person may possess, have within their immediate control,
display, consume or use intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in or upon any
public park open space, except as permitted by temporary license, pursuant to §
110.047(D) of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   This does not include the sale or consumption of alcoholic and
intoxicating beverages at “The Bridges” golf course.
   (L)   Parades, entertainment, public meetings. No procession, parades,
pageants, ceremonies, exhibitions, celebration, training exercises, speeches,
entertainment or other public gatherings may be allowed to take place in any
open space site or on any parkway, except with written permission of the City
Council or Director.
   (M)   Games. No person may engage in any potentially dangerous games
involving thrown or propelled objects, such as horseshoes, golf balls, darts or
similar objects, except in appropriate areas specifically designated for such
usage.
   (N)   Use of tennis and basketball courts.
      (1)   No person may use a bicycle, roller skates, roller blades, roller
skis, skateboard or scooter, or allow a dog to be on a color-coated tennis or
basketball court surface, excluding hockey rink pavement, which is specially
designed for roller blade use.
      (2)   No person may use a tennis court or basketball court while not
wearing tennis shoes.
      (3)   No person may play continuously upon a tennis court for more than
one hour while others are waiting to use the court.
      (4)   No person may play hockey on a tennis court.
   (O)   Skateboards.
      (1)   A skateboard is a footboard or similar object mounted on wheels and
designed or intended to propel a rider by human power or force of gravity, but
without mechanical assistance. The following is not a skateboard: a wheelchair
operated by a disabled person.
      (2)   It is unlawful to operate a skateboard upon a state or county road
within the city.
      (3)   It is unlawful to operate a skateboard carelessly or heedlessly in
disregard of the rights of others, or in a manner that endangers or is likely
to endanger persons, property or the operator of the skateboard.
      (4)   It is unlawful to operate a skateboard in a place where the surface
or traffic conditions render the place unsafe for skateboarding.
      (5)   It is unlawful to operate a skateboard on private property without
the prior express permission of the owner of the property.
      (6)   An operator of a skateboard must yield the right-of-way to any
other type of vehicle or a pedestrian while the operator is entering or
traveling upon a street, alley, sidewalk or bicycle path.
      (7)   The operation and use of skateboards is restricted to paved trails,
paved hockey rinks and paved parking lots which are unoccupied, located in the
parks.
   (P)   Advertising.
      (1)   No person may distribute or disseminate any leaflets, pamphlets,
circulars, handbills, advertisements or other written or printed material
except with the written permission of the Director.
      (2)   No person may post, display, affix or attach any sign, poster,
placard, notice, banner or advertisement to any tree, building, shelter, fence,
pole or other structure, except with the written permission of the Director.
      (3)   No person may use loudspeakers, sound amplifying equipment, musical
equipment or cause any noise to be made for advertising purposes or for the
purpose of attracting attention to any exhibition, performance, event or other
purpose, except with the written permission of the Director.
   (Q)   Unlawful sales.
      (1)   No person may sell, offer for sale, hawk, peddle or lease any
object, merchandise or service or carry on any manner of business or commercial
enterprise, except those concessions authorized or operated by the city.
      (2)   No person may park or occupy a vehicle or stand to sell any farm
produce, flowers, merchandise or any other product or for conducting any
business or selling of services unless authorized by the city.
   (R)   Soliciting alms. No person shall beg or solicit alms, donations or
contributions without a valid permit.
   (S)   Photography. No person may take any photographs, or motion or sound
pictures for commercial purposes or for use in commercial advertising, except
with the written permission of the Director.
   (T)   Utilities.
      (1)   The location, construction or erection of any sewer, gas pipe,
water pipe, hydrant, lamp post, telephone and electric power post, conduit,
pump, lift station and other utility feature proposed in any open space site is
subject to the approval of the city.
      (2)   No person, firm or corporation may construct or relocate any of
these utility installations or fixtures without the written permission of the
Director.
      (3)   Every person, firm or corporation who receives a contract or permit
to do work must, after the work has commenced and until the same has been
completed, isolate the construction area by security fencing, warning lights
and signs or other appropriate measures that will protect the public from
exposure to danger and prevent unnecessary accidents.
   (U)   Lost and found articles. Lost or mislaid articles or money or personal
property which are found in any open space site shall be delivered or turned
over to the city’s Parks and Recreation Department. If the lawful owner of any
article or money deposited with the Department does not claim the same within a
period of 60 days, it may be returned to the finder upon request.
   (V)   Law enforcement officers and employees.
      (1)   No person may willfully resist, refuse or fail to comply with any
order, direction or request lawfully given by any law enforcement officer or
Department employee acting under the authority of the city and in accordance
with this chapter.
      (2)   No person may interfere with, or in any manner hinder any
Department employee or law enforcement officer during the performance of their
assigned duties; nor any employee of a contractor engaged in construction,
repairing or caring for any open space site or part thereof, or while in the
discharge of duties conferred by this chapter.
   (W)   Posted regulations, directional signs and graphics. No person may
disregard or fail to comply with any posted regulations, directional signs and
graphics, barriers or other control devices located within any open space site
or on any parkway.
(Prior Code, § 909.07) (Ord. 557, passed 03-27-1995; Ord. 618, passed 04-27-
1998; Ord. 955, passed 03-11-2019) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.008 TRAFFIC RULES.
   (A)   No person may drive or operate a motor vehicle within any open space
site, except upon roadways, parking areas, parkways or other areas designated
for such use. Disabled vehicles may be moved off a paved area to allow for the
continued flow of traffic, but the vehicle must be repaired or removed within
two hours, unless other arrangements are made with the Director.
   (B)   No person may operate a motor vehicle within any open space site or on
any parkway, in violation of posted regulations and directional signs; M.S. Ch.
169, as it may be amended from time to time; county or municipal traffic
ordinances, or orders or direction of law enforcement officers or Department
employees.
   (C)   No person may drive or operate a vehicle on or along any roads, drives
or parking lots which have been restricted, closed or posted with appropriate
signs or barricades. The Director will have the authority to order roads,
drives or parking lots within any open space site or any roadway closed during
the process of construction, reconstruction or repair or when, in the
Director’s opinion, weather conditions render travel unsafe or unduly
destructive.
   (D)   No person may operate a motor vehicle in a careless or reckless manner
or without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and drivers and
occupants of all other vehicles, so as to endanger the life, limb or property
of any other person while in lawful use of an open space site.
   (E)   No person may park, stop or leave a vehicle in any open space, site or
on any parkway or parking lot between the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.,
unless a permit is obtained from the Director.
   (F)   No person may operate a vehicle in any open space site or on any
parkway at a speed in excess of 15 mph or in excess of posted speed limits.
   (G)   No persons may operate a vehicle in any open space site which emits
excessive or irritating noise, noxious fumes, dense smoke or other pollutants.
   (H)   No person may wash, grease or change oil on any vehicle in any open
space site. All disabled vehicles shall quickly be made operational or removed
from the open space site.
   (I)   No person shall park a vehicle adjacent to any curb painted yellow in
any open space site.
   (J)   Vehicles illegally parked, disabled or abandoned may be towed away and
impounded at the owner’s expense. The vehicle may be sold if unclaimed after 60
days to pay towing and storage charges.
   (K)   No person may drink, consume or have in his or her possession an open
bottle or container of an alcoholic or intoxicating beverage in any motor
vehicle when the vehicle is in an open space site or on a parkway.
   (L)   Vehicles must yield the right-of-way at all times to pedestrians.
   (M)   No person may participate in a drag race or test of unreasonable
acceleration in any open space site or on any parkway.
(Prior Code, § 909.08) (Ord. 557, passed 03-27-1995) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.009 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Director may adopt additional rules and regulations not contrary to the
provisions of this code governing the use and enjoyment of parks, trails,
playgrounds, lakes, ponds, streams and other publicly-owned properties which
shall be prominently posted or publicly announced in the places where they are
intended to apply. Any person who violates a rule or regulation so posted may
be excluded from the use of the park system and may in addition be prosecuted
as for a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 909.10) (Ord. 557, passed 03-27-1995)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person violating any of this chapter may be expelled, ejected
or ousted at such time from an open space site at the discretion of a law
enforcement officer.
   (B)   A person who violates §
92.007(O) of this chapter is guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, §909.09) (Ord. 557, passed 03-27-1995; Ord. 982, passed 11-08-
2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
112.   VEHICLE-RELATED BUSINESSES
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS; COLLECTIONS
      
114.   RECUPERATIVE AND THERAPEUTIC BUSINESSES
      
115.   PAWNSHOPS
      
116.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
117.   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITES
      
118.   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS
      
119.   RENTAL DWELLINGS
      
120.   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLES AND VENDORS
      
121.   CANNABIS AND HEMP BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.001   Definitions
   
110.002   Underage persons
Intoxicating Liquor
   
110.015   Definitions
   
110.016   License required
   
110.017   License classifications
   
110.018   Eligibility for license
   
110.019   Application for license
   
110.020   License fees
   
110.021   Proof of financial responsibility
   
110.022   License hearing
   
110.023   Review and investigation of application; issuance or denial
   
110.024   Effective date of license
   
110.025   Conduct of business; conditions of license
   
110.026   Hours and days of sales
   
110.027   Prohibited or restricted acts and conditions
   
110.028   Minors
   
110.029   Zoning restrictions
   
110.030   Suspension or revocation of license
3.2% Malt Liquor
   
110.045   Definitions
   
110.046   License required
   
110.047   License classifications
   
110.048   Eligibility for license
   
110.049   Application for license
   
110.050   License fees
   
110.051   Proof of financial responsibility
   
110.052   Investigation of application; hearing; issuance or denial
   
110.053   Conduct of business; conditions of license
   
110.054   Hours of sale
   
110.055   Suspension or revocation of license
 
   
110.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.001 DEFINITIONS.
   3.2% MALT LIQUOR and INTOXICATING LIQUOR are hereby defined to mean and
include any distilled, fermented, spirituous, vinous or malt liquid of any
kind, potable as a beverage, which contains an alcoholic content in excess of
0.5% by volume.
(Prior Code, § 501.01)
§ 110.002 UNDERAGE PERSONS.
   (A)   Possession of liquor prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of 21 years to have 3.2% malt liquor or intoxicating liquor, as
the same are herein defined, in that person’s possession for the purpose of
consumption by them or any other person under the age of 21 years. Possession
by a person under the age of 21 years of any 3.2% malt liquor or intoxicating
liquor shall be prima facie evidence to consume the same.
   (B)   Sales or furnishing liquor to persons under the age of 21 years
prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, to
sell or furnish 3.2% malt liquor or intoxicating liquor, as the same are herein
defined, to any person who is under the age of 21 years.
(Prior Code, § 501.02) Penalty, see §
110.999
INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 110.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   3.2% MALT LIQUOR. Malt liquor containing not less than 0.5% alcohol by
volume, nor more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing more than 0.5% alcohol by
volume.
   BREWER. A person who manufactures malt liquor for sale.
   CABARET. A restaurant, night club or other place of amusement where dancing
is permitted incidentally, but is not operated primarily as a business to
provide dancing facilities for a charge.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the state’s Department of Public Safety,
except as otherwise provided.
   CLUB. An incorporated organization organized under the laws of the state for
civic, fraternal, social or business purposes, for intellectual improvement or
for the promotion of sports, or a congressionally chartered veterans’
organization, which:
      (1)   Has more than 30 members;
      (2)   Has owned or rented a building or space in a building for more than
one year that is suitable and adequate for the accommodation of its members;
and
      (3)   Is directed by a board of directors, executive committee or other
similar body chosen by the members at a meeting held for that purpose. No
member, officer, agent or employee shall receive any profit from the
distribution or sale of beverages to the members of the club, or their guests,
beyond a reasonable salary or wages fixed and voted each year by the governing
body.
   COCKTAIL ROOM. A microdistillery licensed by the state’s Department of
Public Safety; and is licensed by the city for on-sale and/or off-sale of
distilled liquor produced by the distiller for consumption on the premises of
or adjacent to one distillery location owned by the distiller. A COCKTAIL ROOM
may include a restaurant at the microdistillery.
   DISTILLED SPIRITS. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin and other distilled spirits, including all dilutions
and mixtures thereof, for non-industrial use.
   EXCLUSIVE LIQUOR STORE. An establishment used exclusively for the sale of:
alcoholic beverages; tobacco products; ice; beverages (liquid or powder)
specifically designed for mixing with intoxicating liquor; soft drinks;
liqueur-filled candies; food products that contain more than 0.5% alcohol by
volume; cork extraction devices; books and videos on the use of alcoholic
beverages; magazines and other publications published primarily for information
and education on alcoholic beverages; multiple-use bags designed to carry
purchased items; devices designed to ensure safe storage and monitoring of
alcohol in the home to prevent access by underage drinkers’ and home brewing
equipment.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. A contrivance the purpose of which is that for a
consideration a player is afforded an opportunity to obtain something of value,
other than free plays, automatically from the machine or otherwise, the award
of which is determined principally by chance, whether or not the contrivance is
actually played. A GAMBLING DEVICE includes a video game of chance as defined
by M.S. § 609.75, subd. 8, as it may be amended from time to time.
   GROWLER. A container used in the package and sale of malt liquor, 64 ounces
in size (or one-half gallon).
   HOTEL. An establishment where food and lodging are regularly furnished to
transients and which has:
      (1)   A dining room serving the general public at tables and having
facilities for seating at least 30 guests at one time; and
      (2)   A minimum of ten guest rooms.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented, spirituous, vinous
and malt beverages containing more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The premises described in the approved license
application, subject to the space limitations set forth in M.S. § 340A.410,
subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time. In the case of a restaurant,
club or exclusive liquor store licensed for on-sales of alcoholic beverages and
located on a golf course, LICENSED PREMISES means the entire golf course,
except for areas where motor vehicles are regularly parked or operated.
   MALT LIQUOR. Any beer, ale or other beverage made from malt by fermentation
and containing not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume.
   MANUFACTURER. A person who, by a process of manufacture, fermenting,
brewing, distilling, refining, rectifying, blending or by the combination of
different materials, prepares or produces intoxicating liquor for sale.
   MICROBREWERY. A facility operated by a person licensed by the state’s
Department of Public Safety as a “Minnesota microbrewer”, small Minnesota
brewer or Minnesota brewer producing not more than 250,000 barrels of malt
liquor annually.
   MICRODISTILLERY. A distillery operated within the state producing premium
distilled spirits in total quality not to exceed 40,000 proof gallons in a
calendar year.
   PREMISES. All buildings and structures, as well as all parking lots,
driveways, landscaped areas, steps, passageways and vestibules, located outside
of the building or structure.
   TAPROOM. A microbrewery licensed by the state’s Department of Public Safety;
and is licensed by the city for on-sale and/or all-sale of malt liquor produced
by the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one brewery
location owned by the brewer. A TAPROOM may include a restaurant at a
microbrewery.
   WHOLESALER. A person who sells alcoholic beverages to persons to whom sale
is permitted under M.S. § 340A.310, as it may be amended from time to time,
from a stock maintained in a warehouse in the state.
   WINE. The product made from the normal alcoholic fermentation of grapes,
including still wine, sparkling and carbonated wine, wine made from condensed
grape must, wine made from other agricultural products than sound, ripe grapes,
imitation wine, compounds sold as wine, vermouth, cider, perry and sake, in
each instance containing not less than 0.5%, nor more than 24%, alcohol by
volume for non-industrial use. WINE does not include distilled spirits.
(Prior Code, § 502.01) (Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 925, passed 08-22-
2016)
§ 110.016 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, except wholesalers or manufacturers to the extent authorized
under state license, shall directly or indirectly deal in, sell or keep for
sale any intoxicating liquor without first having received a license to do so
as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 502.02) (Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 110.017 LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses. On-sale intoxicating liquor
licenses may be issued for the sale of intoxicating liquors in hotels,
restaurants, bowling centers, movie theaters and exclusive liquor stores within
the number authorized by this subchapter. In addition, an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license may be issued, if approved by the Commissioner to a club which
has been in existence for three years or more. A license issued to a club shall
be for the sale of intoxicating liquors to members and bona fide guests only;
except that, a club may permit the general public to participate in a wine
tasting conducted at the club under M.S. § 340A.419, as it may be amended from
time to time. The city may issue the amount of on-sale intoxicating liquor
licenses as authorized in M.S. § 340A.413, subd. 1, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (B)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses. An off-sale intoxicating liquor
license shall be issued only to an exclusive liquor store, the number of which
to be determined by the Council. If an exclusive liquor store is adjacent to
another business (such as, shares a common wall), the exclusive liquor store
shall have a separate entrance (such as, common vestibule with separate store
entrances).
   (C)   On-sale wine licenses. On-sale wine licenses may be issued to
restaurants meeting the qualifications of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, and shall permit only the sale of wine not
exceeding 14% alcohol by volume, for consumption on the licensed premises only,
in conjunction with the sale of food.
   (D)   Sunday sales licenses. Special on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses
for the sale of intoxicating liquor on Sunday separate from a regular on-sale
intoxicating liquor license issued pursuant to §
110.016 of this chapter may be issued to hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
movie theaters or clubs, which hold an on-sale intoxicating liquor license and
have a seating capacity for at least 30 persons. Intoxicating liquor must be
consumed on the premises in conjunction with the sale of food.
   (E)   Consumption and display permits. Consumption and display permits are
issued by the Commissioner and regulated by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414,
as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and display permits issued
by the Commissioner must be approved by the City Council before they are
effective.
   (F)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses. A temporary on-sale
intoxicating liquor license may be issued to a club or charitable, religious or
other non-profit organization which has been in existence for at least three
years, a political committee registered under M.S. § 10A.14, as it may be
amended from time to time, or a state university, in connection with a social
event within the city sponsored by the licensee. The license may authorize the
sale of intoxicating liquor on-sale for not more than four consecutive days and
may authorize on-sales on premises other than premises the licensee owns or
permanently occupies. The license may provide that the licensee may contract
for intoxicating liquor catering services with the holder of a full year on-
sale intoxicating liquor license issued by the city or any municipality.
Licenses under this division (F) are not valid unless first approved by the
Commissioner.
   (G)   Outdoor consumption endorsement. A special endorsement may be issued
by the city to the holder of a regular on-sale intoxicating liquor or on-sale
wine license to allow sales and consumption of intoxicating liquor outdoors
when the outside service area is immediately adjacent to and contiguous with
the licensed premises. The licensee shall make application for the special
endorsement to the city and provide site plans which illustrate the proposed
outdoor service area. The special endorsement may be issued by the City Council
to the licensee by resolution after a public hearing on the special endorsement
is held. The designated outside service area shall not reduce the number of
off-street parking spaces which would be required if the licensed premises
together with the outside service area were to be newly constructed in
conformity with the city’s zoning code. The city may also require improvements
to the outside service area prior to issuing the special endorsement,
including, but not limited to, safety barriers or other enclosures to be placed
around the perimeter of the outside service area in order to protect patrons
from any hazards, including vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 502.03)
   (H)   Brewery taproom license. A brewer who has a license from the
Commissioner of Public Safety to brew up to 250,000 barrels of malt per year
may be issued a license by the city for on-sale of malt liquor subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   The malt liquor sold on sale for consumption must be produced by
the brewer on the licensed premises.
      (2)   No other beverages containing alcohol may be sold or consumed on
the licensed premises.
      (3)   A brewer may only have one taproom license.
      (4)   A restaurant is not allowed at a brewery with a taproom license.
The brewer would, however, be allowed to sell simple pre-packaged snacks
(chips, peanuts, popcorn and the like) for consumption on-site.
      (5)   The holder of a brewery taproom license who also holds a brewery
off-sale malt liguor license is permitted to sell growlers, with a capacity of
up to 64 ounces, for the take-out or off-sale of craft beer.
   (I)   Brewery off-sale malt liquor license. A brewer who has a license from
the Commissioner of Public Safety in accordance with M.S. § 340A.285, as it may
be amended from time to time, may with the approval of the Commissioner of
Public Safety be issued a license by the city of off-sale of malt liquor. Off-
sale of liquor shall be limited to the legal hours for off sale pursuant to §
110.026 of this chapter.
   (J)   Microdistillery with cocktail room license. The owner of the
microdistillery qualifies for and receives a microdistillery license from the
state, according to M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   Microdistillery cocktail room - on-sale license. The owner of the
microdistillery qualifies for and receives a microdistillery cocktail room -
on-sale license from the city.
      (2)   Microdistillery off-sale. Off-sale of liquor produced in the
microdistillery shall require a microdistillery license for off-sale of liquor.
   (K)   Sunday growler off-sale. A brewer that manufactures less than 20,000
barrels of malt liquor per year to sell malt liquor to the public in 64-ounce
containers, commonly known as “growlers” is permitted by M.S. § 340A.301, as it
may be amended from time to time, on Sundays between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to
10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 591, passed 10-29-1996; Ord. 771, passed 04-24-2006; Ord. 835, passed 05-
20-2010; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 938, passed 09-25-2017; Ord. 942,
passed 04-09-2018; Ord. 991, passed 06-13-2022)  Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.018 ELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Persons ineligible for license. No license shall be granted to or held
by any person:
      (1)   Who is under the age of 21;
      (2)   Who is not of good moral character and repute;
      (3)   Who is or has been convicted, within five years prior to the
application of such license, of a felony or a willful violation of any law of
the United States or the state or of any local ordinance with regard to the
manufacture, sale, distribution or possession for sale or distribution of an
alcoholic beverage;
      (4)   Who has a direct or indirect interest in a manufacturer, brewer or
wholesaler; or
      (5)   Who has an interest, directly or indirectly, in any other
establishment in the city to which a license of the same class has been issued
under this subchapter.
   (B)   Places ineligible for license.
      (1)   No intoxicating liquor or wine license shall be granted for
operation on any premises on which taxes, assessments, utility bills or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent or unpaid.
      (2)   No intoxicating liquor or wine license shall be granted for any
premises that is within 500 feet of Edgewood or Pinewood schools or within 200
feet of any permanently sited church located in the city, as measured from the
front door or outdoor seating area of the licensed premises and the closest
point of the school or church principal structure. The 500- or 200-foot
restriction shall not apply and a license may be granted for any movie theater
operating as of 09-25-2017, and licensed premises that receives at least 60% of
its annual gross sales revenue from the sale of food. The licensee must provide
evidence to the city on an annual basis as part of the license renewal process
that the licensee has complied with the minimum 60% food sales requirement of
this section. Failure to comply with the minimum 60% food sales requirement of
this section shall be cause for suspension, revocation or denial of renewal of
the license.
      (3)   No intoxicating liquor or wine license shall be issued to any
person in connection with the premises owned by another person to whom a
license could not be issued under the provisions of this subchapter.
      (4)   No more than one intoxicating liquor or wine license shall be
granted to any one person or for any one place.
(Prior Code, § 502.04) (Ord. 582, passed 05-28-1996; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-
2010; Ord. 925, passed 08-22-2016; Ord. 938, passed 09-25-2017; Ord. 951,
passed 09-24-2018) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.019 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Contents of application.
      (1)   Application. Every application for an intoxicating or wine license
shall be verified and filed with the City Administrator. It shall state the
name of the applicant, applicant’s age, representations as to applicant’s
character, references as may be required, whether the application is for on-
sale or off-sale, the business in connection with which the proposed licensee
will operate, its location, whether the applicant is owner and operator of the
business, how long applicant has been or is operating a similar business at
that place, whether applicant has been or is operating a similar business at
some other location (if so, the name of the establishment) and such other
information as the Council may require, from time to time.
      (2)   Form. In addition to containing such information, each application
for a license shall be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner.
      (3)   False statements. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Floor plan. The application shall provide a floor plan of the interior
of all structures on the premises. The plan shall show the dimensions and the
intended arrangement and use of all interior space.
(Prior Code, § 502.05) (Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010)
§ 110.020 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Payment required. Each application for an intoxicating liquor or wine
license shall be accompanied by a receipt from the city’s Finance Director for
payment in full of the required fee for the license. All fees shall be paid
into the general fund of the city. Upon rejection of any application for a
license, the Finance Director shall refund the amount paid less the amount
established by resolution of the City Council for investigation of the
applicant’s qualifications.
   (B)   Fees. The annual fee for all intoxicating liquor licenses shall be per
the city’s approved fee schedule and shall be paid prior to December 31 of each
year.
   (C)   Increase of fees. No intoxicating liquor or wine license fees shall be
increased, except after notice and public hearing by the Council on the
proposed increase. Notice of the proposed increase must be published in the
official newspaper and mailed to all affected licensees at least 30 days in
advance of the hearing.
   (D)   Refunds. No refund of any license fee shall be permitted; except that,
a pro rata share of the fee may be refunded to the licensee or the licensee’s
estate: if the business ceases to operate because of destruction or damage; the
licensee dies; the business ceases to be lawful for a reason other than a
license revocation; or the licensee ceases to carry on the licensed business
under the license.
(Prior Code, § 501.06) (Ord. 475, passed 10-09-1989; Ord. 591, passed 10-29-
1996; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 951, passed 09-24-2018; Ord. 981,
passed 11-08-2021)
§ 110.021 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Application. Unless otherwise excepted by this section, each
application for an intoxicating liquor or wine license shall be accompanied by
one of the following proofs of financial responsibility:
      (1)   Insurance. A certificate that there is in effect an insurance
policy issued by an insurer required to be licensed by M.S. § 60A.07, subd. 4,
as it may be amended from time to time, or by an insurer recognized as an
eligible surplus line carrier pursuant to M.S. § 60A.206, as it may be amended
from time to time, or pool providing coverage of at least:
         (a)   Fifty thousand dollars for bodily injury to any one person in
any one occurrence and subject to the limit of one person;
         (b)   One hundred thousand dollars for bodily injury to two or more
persons in any one occurrence;
         (c)   Ten thousand dollars for injury to or destruction of property of
others in any one occurrence;
         (d)   Fifty thousand dollars for loss of means of support of any one
person in any one occurrence and, subject to the limit for one person;
         (e)   One hundred thousand dollars for loss of means of support of two
or more persons in any one occurrence;
         (f)   Fifty thousand dollars for other pecuniary loss of any one
person in one occurrence; and
         (g)   One hundred thousand dollars for other pecuniary loss of two or
more persons in any one occurrence.
      (2)   Bond. A bond of a surety company with minimum coverages as provided
in division (A)(1) above; or
      (3)   Commissioner of Management and Budget certificate. A certificate of
the state’s Commissioner of Management and Budget that the licensee has
deposited with the Commissioner of Management and Budget $100,000 in cash or
securities which may legally be purchased by savings banks or for trust funds
having a market value of $100,000.
   (B)   Approval by Council. The proof of financial responsibility shall be
approved by the Council and, when required, by the Commissioner. The City
Attorney shall approve the form of the financial responsibility.
   (C)   Insurance, bond or certificate. A certificate of insurance, bond or
certificate from the Commissioner of Management and Budget as set forth in
division (A) above are required for temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor
licenses. The insurance policy or bond must have the following coverage:
$100,000 bodily injury each person; $200,000 each common cause; $100,000
property damage each common cause; $100,000 loss of means of support; $200,000
each common cause; and $300,000 annual aggregate. If the event is to be held on
city property, the city shall be named as an additional insured and the license
holder shall agree to hold the city harmless and indemnify and defend the city
for acts of the license holder.
   (D)   Exceptions. Division (A) above does not apply to on-sale wine
licensees who by affidavit establish that they are holders of an on-sale wine
license with sales of less than $25,000 for wine for the preceding year.
   (E)   Revocation of license. The operation of such off-sale or on-sale
intoxicating liquor or wine business without having on file, at all times, with
the city proof of financial responsibility required by this section shall be
grounds for immediate revocation of the license. Notice of cancellation of a
current liquor liability policy shall serve as notice of the impending
revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 501.07) (Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 951, passed 09-24-
2018)
§ 110.022 LICENSE HEARING.
   No issuance of a new intoxicating liquor or wine license, transfer of an
existing license, issuance of temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license,
Sunday sales license or special outdoor consumption endorsements shall be
hereafter granted by the Council until a public hearing has been conducted by
the Council after published notice in the official newspaper at least ten days
in advance of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 501.08) (Ord. 601, passed 05-12-1997; Ord. 771, passed 04-24-
2006; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 951, passed 09-24-2018)
§ 110.023 REVIEW AND INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   (A)   Investigation of application; issuance or denial. The Council shall
investigate all facts set out in the application. The city must conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of all applicants and
transfer applicants for on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses. After the
investigation, the Council shall grant or refuse the application, in its
discretion. No off-sale intoxicating liquor license, on-sale intoxicating
liquor license for a club, temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license or on-
sale wine license shall become effective until it, together with the proof of
financial responsibility furnished by the applicant, has been approved by the
Commissioner.
   (B)   Report to Commissioner. The City Administrator shall, within ten days
after the issuance of any on-sale intoxicating liquor or wine license under
this subchapter, submit to the Commissioner the full name and address of each
person granted a license, the trade name, the effective license date and the
date of expiration of the license. The City Administrator shall also submit to
the Commissioner any transfer, cancellation, suspension or revocation during
the license period.
(Prior Code, § 501.09) (Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010)
§ 110.024 EFFECTIVE DATE OF LICENSE.
    All licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year. Each license shall
be issued for a period of one year; except that, if a portion of the license
year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be issued for the
remainder of the year for a pro rata fee. In computing the fee, any unexpired
fraction of a month shall be counted as one month.
(Prior Code, § 501.10) (Ord. 981, passed 11-08-2021)
§ 110.025 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS; CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Responsibility of licensee. Every licensee shall be responsible for
the conduct of licensee’s place of business and the conditions of sobriety and
order in it. The act of any employee on the licensed premises authorized to
sell and serve intoxicating liquors shall be deemed the act of the licensee as
well, and the licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this
subchapter equally with the employee.
   (B)   Compliance with laws. Every license shall be granted subject to the
conditions in the following divisions and all other provisions of this
subchapter and of any other applicable chapter of the city code or state law.
   (C)   Posting of license. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place
on the licensed premises at all times.
   (D)   Sales restricted. No off-sale licensee shall sell intoxicating liquor
on-sale or permit the consumption of any liquor on the licensed premises with
the exception of samples authorized by M.S. § 340A.510, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (E)   Place of business. No license shall be effective beyond the compact
and contiguous space named in the license for which it was granted.
   (F)   Closing hours. Every on-sale intoxicating liquor or wine licensee
shall be responsible for the removal of all persons, who are not employees of
the licensee, from the licensed premises within 30 minutes after the sale of
intoxicating liquors is prohibited by law, except those premises that are also
licensed as restaurants under §§
111.001 through
111.005 of this code of ordinances or licensed as bowling centers under §§
111.045 through
111.050 of this code of ordinances, and the restaurants or bowling centers are
open and operating subsequent to the prohibition referred to herein, in which
case, persons may remain on the premises. In no event may intoxicating 3.2%
malt liquor be served or consumed on any licensed premises contrary to law.
   (G)   Persons on premises. No person may remain on a premises licensed for
on-sale intoxicating liquors or wine pursuant to this subchapter 30 minutes
after the sale of intoxicating liquors is prohibited by law unless the person
is the licensee or an employee of the licensee and is engaged in the business
or occupation relative to the licensed activity.
   (H)   Consumption in parking lots. No person may loiter or consume or have
in his or her possession any bottle or receptacle containing intoxicating or
3.2% malt liquors on any premises licensed for the on-sale or off-sale of
intoxicating liquors while outside of the building or structure located on the
licensed premises, including, but not limited to, parking lots, driveways and
landscaped areas, as well as steps, passageways or vestibules located outside
of the building or structure, except as provided by §
110.017(G) of this chapter and §
110.047(A)(3) of this chapter. Any person in violation of this division (H)
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 502.11) (Ord. 771, passed 04-24-2006; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-
2010) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.026 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALES.
   (A)   General restrictions. No sale of intoxicating liquor for consumption
on the licensed premises shall be made between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00
a.m. on the days of Monday through Saturday. No sale of intoxicating liquor
shall be made by an off-sale licensee before 8:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m. on
the days of Monday through Thursday. No sale of intoxicating liquor shall be
made by an off-sale licensee before 8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. on the days
of Friday and Saturday. No sale of intoxicating liquor shall be made by an off-
sale licensee before 11:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. on Sunday. Notwithstanding
the general restrictions contained herein, no off-sale of intoxicating liquor
shall be made on Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day or after 8:00 p.m. on December
24.
   (B)   Sunday on-sales. Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above,
restaurants, clubs, bowling centers and hotels with seating capacities for at
least 30 persons and which hold an on-sale intoxicating liquor license may
serve intoxicating liquor between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. on
Sundays in conjunction with the sale of food upon obtaining a Sunday sales
license from the city.
   (C)   Wholesale delivery. No delivery of alcohol to an off-sale licensee may
be made by a wholesaler or accepted by an off-sale licensee on a Sunday. No
order solicitation or merchandising may be made by a wholesaler on a Sunday.
   (D)   Sunday growler off-sale. Pursuant to §
110.017 of this chapter, a brewer that manufactures less than 20,000 barrels of
malt liquor per year is authorized to sell malt liquor to the public in 64-
ounce containers, commonly known as “growlers”, as permitted by M.S. §
340A.301, as it may be amended from time to time, on Sundays between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. upon obtaining a Sunday growler off-sale license.
(Prior Code, § 502.12) (Ord. 475, passed 10-09-1989; Ord. 717, passed 07-28-
2003; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 851, passed 10-07-2010; Ord. 911,
passed 12-14-2015; Ord. 925, passed 08-22-2016; Ord. 932, passed 04-24-2017;
Ord. 951, passed 09-24-2018) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.027 PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Sales to certain persons prohibited. No intoxicating liquor shall be
sold, served, furnished or delivered for any purpose to any person under the
age of 21, to any person obviously intoxicated or to any person to whom sale is
prohibited by statute.
   (B)   Gambling devices.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), no licensee
shall keep, possess or operate or permit the keeping, possession or operation
of any slot machines, dice or any gambling equipment on the licensed premises
or in any room adjoining the licensed premises in violation of M.S. Ch. 349, as
it may be amended from time to time, and §§
111.115 through
111.128 of this code of ordinances. Lottery tickets may be purchased and sold
within the licensed premises as authorized by the Director of the State Lottery
under M.S. Ch. 349A, as it may be amended from time to time. Dice may be kept
and used on the licensed premises and adjoining rooms for social dice games as
authorized by M.S. § 609.761, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   No licensee shall conduct or permit to be conducted on any licensed
premises “casino” or “Las Vegas” events where guests are allowed to participate
in gambling activities, except when the guests are not required to provide
monetary consideration to participate in the event.
   (C)   Ownership by manufacturers or distillers of liquor. No equipment or
fixture in any licensed premises shall be owned, in whole or in part, by any
manufacturer or distiller of intoxicating liquor.
   (D)   Refilling and diluting. No licensee shall sell, offer for sale or keep
for sale intoxicating liquors in any original package which has been refilled
or partly refilled. No licensee shall, directly or through any other person,
dilute or in any manner tamper with the contents of any original package so as
to change its composition or alcoholic content while in the original package.
Possession on the licensed premises by any licensee of any intoxicating liquor
in the original package differing in composition or alcoholic content from the
liquor when received from the manufacturer or wholesaler from whom it was
purchased shall be prima facie evidence that the contents of the original
package have been diluted, changed or tampered with.
   (E)   Federal wholesale dealers or gambling stamps. No licensee shall apply
for or possess a federal wholesale liquor dealer tax stamp.
   (F)   Ethyl alcohol or neutral spirits. No licensee shall keep ethyl alcohol
or neutral spirits on the licensed premises or permit their use on the premises
either alone or mixed with any other beverage.
   (G)   Sexual acts; indecent exposure. The following acts or conduct on
licensed premises are deemed contrary to public welfare and morals, and
therefore, no on-sale license shall be held at any premises where such conduct
or acts are permitted:
      (1)   To employ or use any person in the sale or service of alcoholic
beverages in or upon the licensed premises while such person is unclothed or in
such attire, costume or clothing as to expose to view any portion of the female
breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the pubic hair, anus,
cleft of the buttocks, vulva or genitals;
      (2)   To employ or use the services of any host or hostess while the host
or hostess is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as described in
division (G)(1) above;
      (3)   To encourage or permit any person on the licensed premises to
touch, caress or fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals of any other
person;
      (4)   To permit any employee or person to wear or use any device or
covering exposed to view, which simulates the breast, genitals, anus, pubic
hair or any portion thereof;
      (5)   To permit any person to perform acts of or acts which simulate:
         (a)   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral
copulation, flagellation or any sexual acts which are prohibited by law;
         (b)   The touching caressing or fondling on the breast, buttocks, anus
or genitals; and
         (c)   The displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva, genitals or the
nipple or areola of the female breast.
      (6)   To permit any person to use artificial devices or inanimate objects
to depict any of the prohibited activities described in division (F) above;
      (7)   To permit any person to remain in or upon the licensed premises who
exposes to public view the pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals, except where
the pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals are covered with transparent clothing,
in the form of pants or panties, and in addition, where the breast and the
pubic hair, anus, vulva and genitals are covered with transparent clothing; and
      (8)   To permit the showing of film, still pictures, electronic
reproduction or other visual reproductions depicting:
         (a)   Acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation,
sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual acts which are
prohibited by law;
         (b)   Any person being touched, caressed or fondled on the breast,
buttocks, anus or genitals;
         (c)   Scenes wherein a person displays the vulva or anus or the
genitals;
         (d)   Scenes wherein artificial devices or inanimate objects are
employed to depict or drawings are employed to portray any of the prohibited
activities described above; and
         (e)   To permit any employee or person under contract to perform on
the premises or to dance on any table, bar or other elevated platform, except
on a duly designated stage designed exclusively for the entertainment of
patrons of the premises, the stage to be located at least three feet from any
patron.
   (H)   Sale or consumption in public or on public land or streets.
      (1)   No intoxicating liquor shall be sold or consumed in any public
place not holding an on-sale or off-sale license.
      (2)   No liquor shall be sold or consumed on a public street, in an
automobile or on public land.
(Prior Code, § 502.13) (Ord. 691, passed 01-28-2002; Ord. 835, passed 04-01-
2010; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.028 MINORS.
   (A)   Employment of minors. No person under the age of 18 shall be permitted
to sell or serve intoxicating liquor in any on-sale or off-sale establishment.
   (B)   Purchase of liquor; misrepresentation of age. No person under the age
of 21 shall misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of obtaining liquor. No
person under the age of 21 shall enter any premises licensed under this
subchapter in order to procure intoxicating liquor or to consume or purchase or
attempt to purchase or have others purchase for the person under the age of 21
such beverages on licensed premises.
   (C)   Inducing persons under the age of 21 to purchase liquor. No person
shall induce a person under the age of 21 to purchase or procure liquor.
   (D)   Procuring liquor for persons under the age of 21. No person shall give
to, procure or purchase liquor for any person under the age of 21 or any other
person to whom the sale of intoxicating liquors is forbidden by law.
(Prior Code, § 502.14) (Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.029 ZONING RESTRICTIONS.
   No license shall be issued for premises located within the areas restricted
against commercial use by Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances. No license shall
be issued for premises or places in which the sale or use thereof has been
prohibited by the M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 502.15) (Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 110.030 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Cause for suspension. The Council may suspend or revoke any liquor
license for violation of any provision or condition of this subchapter or any
state law regulating the sale of intoxicating liquors and shall revoke the
license if the licensee willfully violates any provision of M.S. Ch. 340A, as
it may be amended from time to time, or this subchapter.
   (B)   Written notice. Except in the case of a suspension pending a hearing
on revocation, revocation or suspension by the Council shall be preceded by
written notice to the licensee, and a public hearing shall be held. The notice
shall give at least eight days’ notice of the time and place of the hearing and
shall state the nature of the charges against the licensee.
   (C)   Suspension pending hearing. The Council may, without any advance
notice, suspend any license pending a hearing on revocation for a period not
exceeding 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 502.16) (Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010)
3.2% MALT LIQUOR
§ 110.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   3.2% MALT LIQUOR. Any malt beverage with an alcoholic content of more than
0.5% by volume and not more than 3.2% by weight.
   3.2% MALT LIQUOR STORE. An establishment used exclusively for the sale of
3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of tobacco and soft drinks at retail.
   CLUB. An incorporated organization organized under the laws of the state for
civic, fraternal, social or business purposes, for intellectual improvement, or
for the promotion of sports, or a congressionally-chartered veterans’
organization, which:
      (1)   Has more than 30 members;
      (2)   Has owned or rented a building or space in a building for more than
one year that is suitable and adequate for the accommodation of its members;
and
      (3)   Is directed by a board of directors, executive committee or other
similar body chosen by members at a meeting held for that purpose. No member,
officer, agent or employee shall receive any profit from the distribution or
sale of beverages to the members of the club, or their guests, beyond a
reasonable salary or wages fixed and voted each year by the governing body.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. A contrivance the purpose of which is that for a
consideration a player is afforded an opportunity to obtain something of value,
other than free plays, automatically from the machine or otherwise, the award
of which is determined principally by chance, whether or not the contrivance is
actually played. A GAMBLING DEVICE includes a video game of chance as defined
by M.S. § 609.75, subd. 8, as it may be amended from time to time.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Any ethyl alcohol distilled, fermented, spirituous,
vinous or malt beverage containing more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. The corked bottle or sealed container in which the liquor
is placed by the manufacturer.
   PERSON. Includes a natural person of either sex, partnership, corporation or
association of persons and the agent or manager of any of the aforesaid. The
singular number includes the plural, and the masculine pronoun includes the
feminine and neuter.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises and served at tables to the general public and having a minimum
seating capacity for guests as prescribed by this code.
(Prior Code, § 503.01) (Ord. 619, passed 04-27-1998; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-
2010)
§ 110.046 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, except wholesalers and manufacturers to the extent authorized by
law, shall deal in or dispose of by gift, sale or otherwise or keep or offer
for sale, any 3.2% malt liquor within the city without first having received a
license as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 503.02) (Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.047 LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Licenses shall be of two kinds: retail on-sale and retail off-sale.
   (A)   On-sale licenses.
      (1)   Locations. On-sale licenses shall be granted only to clubs, 3.2%
malt liquor stores, bowling centers, restaurants and hotels where food is
prepared and served for consumption on the premises. On-sale licenses shall
permit the sale of 3.2% malt liquor for consumption on the premises only.
      (2)   Additional licenses. A holder of an on-sale license to sell 3.2%
malt liquor pursuant hereto, who is also licensed to sell on-sale wine pursuant
hereto and is licensed to sell on-sale 3.2% malt liquor pursuant hereto and
whose gross receipts are at least 60% attributable to the sale of food, is
permitted to sell intoxicating malt liquor at on-sale without an additional
license.
      (3)   Outdoor consumption endorsement.
         (a)   A special endorsement may be issued by the city to the holder of
an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license to allow sales and consumption of 3.2% malt
liquor outdoors when the outside service area is immediately adjacent to and
contiguous with the licensed premises. The licensee shall make application for
the special endorsement to the city and provide site plans which illustrate the
proposed outdoor service area. The special endorsement may be issued by the
City Council to the licensee by resolution after a public hearing on the
special endorsement is held. The designated outdoor service area shall not
reduce the number of off-street parking spaces which would be required if the
licensed premises together with the outside service area were to be newly
constructed in conformity with the city’s Zoning Code.
         (b)   The city may also require improvements to the outside service
area prior to issuing the special endorsement, including, but not limited to,
safety barriers or other enclosures to be placed around the perimeter of the
outside service area in order to protect patrons from any hazards, including
vehicular traffic.
      (4)   Temporary on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license. Temporary on-sale 3.2%
malt liquor licenses may be issued to a club, charitable, religious or non-
profit organization for not more than two consecutive days. The license will
permit the licensee to dispense 3.2% malt liquor at any civic event sponsored
by or approved by the city. The licensee must be engaged to dispense 3.2% malt
liquor at the event held by a person or organization permitted to use the
premises, and may dispense 3.2% malt liquor only to persons attending the
event. The licensee may not dispense 3.2% malt liquor to any person attending
or participating in an amateur athletic event held on the premises. Proof of
financial responsibility is required in accordance with §
110.051(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   Off-sale licenses. Off-sale licenses shall permit the sale of 3.2%
malt liquor at retail, in the original package, for consumption off the
premises only.
(Prior Code, § 503.03) (Ord. 467, passed 06-26-1989; Ord. 619, passed 04-27-
1998; Ord. 771, passed 04-24-2006; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 110.048 ELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Persons ineligible for license. No license shall be granted to any
person:
      (1)   Who is under the age of 21;
      (2)   Who within five years of the license application has been convicted
of a felony or a willful violation of a federal or any law of the state or
local ordinance relating to the manufacture, sale, distribution or possession
for sale or distribution of an alcoholic beverage;
      (3)   Who has a direct or indirect interest in a manufacturer, brewer or
wholesaler;
      (4)   Who is not of good moral character and repute; and
      (5)   Who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the
license is issued.
   (B)   Places ineligible for license; exceptions.
      (1)   No on-sale or off-sale 3.2% malt liquor license shall be granted
for sale on any premises where any license hereunder has been revoked for cause
until one year has elapsed after the conviction or revocation.
      (2)   No off-sale license 3.2% malt liquor license shall be granted to
any premises where an on-sale intoxicating liquor license has been issued by
the city pursuant to the provisions of §§
110.015 through
110.030 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 503.04) (Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 964, passed 10-14-
2019)
§ 110.049 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Contents of application; filing. Every application for a license to
sell 3.2% malt liquor shall be made on a form supplied by the city and shall
state the name of the applicant, applicant’s age, representations as to the
character of applicant, with such references as may be required, whether the
application is for an on-sale or off-sale 3.2% malt liquor license, the name
and type of business in connection with which the proposed licensee will
operate and its location, whether applicant is owner and operator of the
business, how long applicant has been in that business at that place and such
other information as the Council may require, from time to time. Applications
shall be filed with the City Administrator.
   (B)   False statements. It shall be unlawful to make any false statement in
an application.
   (C)   Special sales of malt liquor. Applications for a license to sell
intoxicating malt liquor on-sale pursuant to the requirements of §
110.047(A)(2) of this chapter shall include documentation to substantiate food
sales equal or exceeding 60% of gross receipts for the 12-month period of
November 1 through October 31 preceding the license issuance date.
Documentation shall be by statement of certified public accountant based upon
an audit of sales receipts or other certifiable records of the business in
connection with which the proposed license will operate.
(Prior Code, § 503.05) (Ord. 467, passed 06-26-1989; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-
2010; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.050 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Payment of fees. Each application for a license shall be accompanied
by a receipt from the Finance Director for payment in full of the required fee
for the license. All fees shall be paid into the general fund of the city. Upon
rejection of any application for a license, the Finance Director shall refund
the amount paid.
   (B)   Proration of fees. All licenses shall expire on December 31 of each
year. Each license shall be issued for a period of one year; except that, if a
portion of the license year has elapsed when the application is made, a license
may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee. In computing
the fee, any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one month.
   (C)   Annual fees.
      (1)   The annual fee for an on-sale and an off-sale 3.2% malt liquor
license shall be per the city’s approved fee schedule.
      (2)   No additional license fee shall be required of a licensee who sells
intoxicating malt liquor on-sale pursuant to the requirements of §
110.047(A)(2) of this chapter.
      (3)   The fees for temporary on-sale 3.2% liquor licenses shall be per
the city’s approved fee schedule.
   (D)   Increase of fees. No 3.2% malt liquor license fee shall be increased,
except after notice and public hearing by the Council on the proposed increase.
Notice of the proposed increase must be published in the official newspaper and
mailed to all affected licensees at least 30 days before the date set for the
hearing.
   (E)   Refunds. No part of the fee paid for any license issued under this
subchapter shall be refunded, except in the following instances upon
application to the Council within 30 days from the happening of the event.
There shall be refunded a pro rata portion of the fee for the unexpired period
of the license, computed on a monthly basis, when operation of the licensed
business ceases not less than one month before expiration of the license
because of:
      (1)   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
      (2)   The licensee’s illness;
      (3)   The licensee’s death; or
      (4)   A change in the legal status of the city making it unlawful for the
licensed businesses to continue.
(Prior Code, § 503.06) (Ord. 467, passed 06-26-1989; Ord. 476, passed 10-09-
1989; Ord. 591, passed 10-29-1996; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 951,
passed 09-24-2018; Ord. 981, passed 11-08-2021)
§ 110.051 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise excepted by this section, each application for an on-
sale or off-sale 3.2% malt liquor license shall be accompanied by one of the
following proofs of financial responsibility:
      (1)   Certificate of insurance. A certificate that there is in effect an
insurance policy issued by an insurer required to be licensed by M.S. § 60A.07,
subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time, or by an insurer recognized as
an eligible surplus line carrier pursuant to M.S. § 60A.206, as it may be
amended from time to time, or pool providing coverage of at least:
         (a)   Fifty thousand dollars for bodily injury to any one person in
any one occurrence and subject to the limit of one person;
         (b)   One hundred thousand dollars for bodily injury to two or more
persons in any one occurrence;
         (c)   Ten thousand dollars for injury to or destruction of property of
others in any one occurrence;
         (d)   Fifty thousand dollars for loss of means of support of any one
person in any one occurrence and, subject to the limit for one person;
         (e)   One hundred thousand for loss of support of two or more persons
in any one occurrence;
         (f)   Fifty thousand dollars for other pecuniary loss of any one
person in any one occurrence; and
         (g)   One hundred thousand dollars for other pecuniary loss of two or
more persons in any one occurrence.
      (2)   Bond. A bond of a surety company with minimum coverages as provided
in division (A)(1) above; or
      (3)   Commissioner of Management and Budget certificate. A certificate of
the state’s Commissioner of Management and Budget that the licensee has
deposited with the Commissioner of Management and Budget $100,000 in cash or
securities which may legally be purchased by savings banks or for trust funds
having a market value of $100,000.
   (B)   Temporary on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license. A certificate of
insurance, bond or certificate from the Commissioner of Management and Budget
as set forth in division (A) above are required for temporary on-sale 3.2% malt
liquor licenses. The insurance policy or bond must have the following coverage:
$100,000 bodily injury each person; $200,000 each common cause; $100,000
property damage each common cause; $100,000 loss of means of support; $200,000
each common cause; and $300,000 annual aggregate. If the event is to be held on
city property, the city shall be named as an additional insured and the license
holder shall agree to hold the city harmless and indemnify and defend the city
for acts of the license holder.
   (C)   Applicability. Division (A) above does not apply to 3.2% malt liquor
licensees who by affidavit establish that:
      (1)   They are on-sale 3.2% malt liquor licensees with sales of less than
$25,000 or 3.2% malt liquor for the preceding year; or
      (2)   They are off-sale 3.2% malt liquor licensees with sales of less
than $50,000 of 3.2% malt liquor for the preceding year.
   (D)   Approval by Council. The proof of financial responsibility shall be
approved by the Council and, when required, by the Commissioner of Public
Safety. The City Attorney shall approve the form of the financial
responsibility.
   (E)   Revocation of license. The operation of such off-sale or on-sale 3.2%
malt liquor business without having proof of financial responsibility on file,
at all times, with the city, if required by this section, shall be grounds for
immediate revocation of the license. Notice of cancellation of a current liquor
liability policy shall serve as notice of the impending revocation of the
license.
(Prior Code, § 503.07) (Ord. 591, passed 10-29-1996; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-
2010; Ord. 951, passed 09-24-2018)
§ 110.052 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION; HEARING; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   (A)   General. The Council shall conduct a public hearing regarding issuance
of any 3.2% malt liquor license after published notice in the official
newspaper at least ten days in advance of the hearing. Prior to the hearing,
the city must conduct a preliminary background and financial investigation of
the applicant. After the investigation and hearing, the Council shall grant or
refuse the application, in its discretion. No license shall become effective
until it together with the proof of financial responsibility furnished by the
applicant has been approved by the Commissioner.
   (B)   Report to Commissioner. The City Administrator or its designee shall,
within ten days after the issuance of any license under this subchapter, submit
to the Commissioner the full name and address of each person granted a license,
the trade name, the effective license date and the date of expiration of the
license. The City Administrator or its designee shall also submit to the
Commissioner any transfer, cancellation, suspension or revocation during the
license period.
(Prior Code, § 503.08) (Ord. 771, passed 04-24-2006; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-
2010; Ord. 951, passed 09-24-2018)
§ 110.053 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS; CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Transferability of license. Each license shall be issued to the
applicant only and shall not be transferable to another holder. Each license
shall be issued only for the premises described in the application. No license
may be transferred to another place without the approval of the Council.
   (B)   Compliance with laws. Every license shall be granted subject to the
conditions in the following subdivisions and all other provisions of this
subchapter and of any other applicable chapter of this code or state law.
   (C)   License to be posted. All licensed premises shall have the license
posted in a conspicuous place at all times.
   (D)   Responsibility of licensee. Every licensee shall be responsible for
the conduct of his or her place of business and shall maintain conditions of
sobriety and order.
   (E)   Serving underage persons and intoxicated persons. No 3.2% malt liquor
shall be sold or served to any intoxicated person or to any person who is under
the age of 21.
   (F)   Consumption by underage persons on premises. No person under the age
of 21 shall be permitted to consume 3.2% malt liquor on the licensed premises.
   (G)   Employment of minors. No person under the age of 18 shall be permitted
to sell or serve 3.2% malt liquor in any on-sale establishment.
   (H)   Gambling and gambling devices.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (H)(1), no licensee
shall keep, possess or operate or permit the keeping, possession or operation
of any gambling equipment on the licensed premises or in any room adjoining the
licensed premises in violation of M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time
to time, and §§
111.115 through
111.128 of this code of ordinances. Lottery tickets may be purchased and sold
within the licensed premises as authorized by the Director of the State Lottery
under M.S. Ch. 349A, as it may be amended from time to time. Dice may be kept
and used on licensed premises and adjoining rooms for social dice games as
authorized by M.S. § 609.761, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   No licensee shall conduct or permit to be conducted on any licensed
premises “casino” or “Las Vegas” events where guests are allowed to participate
in gambling activities, except when the guests are not required to provide
monetary consideration to participate in the event.
   (I)   Right of entry and inspection. The Commissioner of Public Safety, or
duly authorized employees, may, at all reasonable hours enter in and upon the
premises of any licensee to inspect the premises and examine the books, papers
and records of a licensee for the purposes of determining compliance with the
provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If the
Commissioner or any duly authorized employee is denied free access or is
hindered or interfered with in making an inspection or examination, the license
is subject to revocation by the Commissioner pursuant to M.S. § 340A.304, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (J)   Sale of intoxicating liquor.
      (1)   No 3.2% malt liquor licensee who is not also licensed to sell
intoxicating liquor shall sell intoxicating liquors on the licensed premises.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any business establishment or club other
than a place licensed to sell intoxicating liquors, to, directly or indirectly
or upon any pretense or by any device, allow the consumption or display of
intoxicating liquor or the serving of any liquid for the purpose of mixing with
intoxicating liquor without first securing a permit from the Commissioner of
Public Safety and paying the annual fee as provided for in M.S. § 340A.414, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   (K)   Serving 3.2% malt liquor under on-sale license. An on-sale 3.2% malt
liquor license shall entitle the holder to serve 3.2% malt liquor in a separate
room of the licensed premises for banquets or dinners so long as the room is
contiguous with the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 503.09) (Ord. 691, passed 01-28-2002; Ord. 835, passed 04-01-
2010; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.054 HOURS OF SALE.
   No sale of 3.2% malt liquor shall be made on any Sunday between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. No sale shall be made between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 8:00 a.m. on any other day.
(Prior Code, § 503.10) (Ord. 717, passed 07-28-2003; Ord. 843, passed 05-20-
2010; Ord. 851, passed 10-07-2010) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.055 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Cause for suspension. The Council may suspend or revoke any 3.2% malt
liquor license for violation of any provision or condition of this subchapter
or any state law regulating the sale of 3.2% malt liquor and shall revoke the
license if the licensee willingly violates any provision of M.S. Ch. 340A, as
it may be amended from time to time, or this subchapter.
   (B)   Written notice and public hearing. Except in the case of a suspension
pending a hearing on revocation, revocation or suspension by the Council shall
be preceded by written notice to the licensee and a public hearing shall be
held. The notice shall give at least eight days’ notice of the time and place
of the hearing and shall state the nature of the charges against the licensee.
   (C)   Suspension pending hearing. The Council may, without any advance
notice, suspend any license pending a hearing on revocation for a period not
exceeding 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 503.11) (Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
110.002 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 501.03)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
110.015 through
110.030 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 502.17)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §§
110.045 through
110.055 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 503.12) (Ord. 843, passed 05-20-2010)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
Restaurants
   
111.001   License required
   
111.002   Classifications of licenses
   
111.003   License fees
   
111.004   Health and sanitation requirements
   
111.005   Enforcement
Bowling Alleys
   
111.045   License required
   
111.046   Application for license
   
111.047   Review of application; issuance or denial
   
111.048   License fees; expiration
   
111.049   Conditions of license
   
111.050   Revocation of license
Rides, Carnivals and Circuses
   
111.065   License required
   
111.066   Application for license
   
111.067   License fees
   
111.068   Review of application; issuance or denial
   
111.069   Bond and insurance
   
111.070   Conditions of license
   
111.071   Indemnification
Ultimate Fighting
   
111.085   Findings of fact
   
111.086   Definition
   
111.087   Prohibited conduct
   
111.088   Unlawful act
   
111.089   Right of injunction
Tattoos; Body Piercing, Branding, Scarring and Painting Establishments
   
111.100   Purpose
   
111.101   Definitions
   
111.102   License required
   
111.103   Location requirements
   
111.104   General requirements
Lawful Gambling
   
111.115   Adoption of state law by reference
   
111.116   Purpose
   
111.117   Definitions
   
111.118   Applicability
   
111.119   Lawful gambling permitted with Council approval
   
111.120   Approval of premises permits
   
111.121   Local permits
   
111.122   Revocation and suspension of local permit
   
111.123   License and permit display
   
111.124   Notification of material changes to application
   
111.125   Designated trade area
   
111.126   Records and reporting
   
111.127   Hours of operation
   
111.128   Contribution of net profits to fund administered by city
Christmas Trees
   
111.140   Definition
   
111.141   License required
   
111.142   Application
   
111.143   License fees
   
111.144   Restrictions of sale
   
111.145   Licenses non-transferable
   
111.146   License expiration and site cleanup
 
   
111.999   Penalty
RESTAURANTS
§ 111.001 LICENSE REQUIRED.
    Every person who owns or operates any place of business enumerated in this
subchapter shall procure, annually, on January 1, or at the time of commencing
such business, a license from the City Administrator or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 505.01) (Ord. 951, passed 09-24-2018; Ord. 981, passed 11-08-
2021)
§ 111.002 CLASSIFICATIONS OF LICENSES.
   Licenses shall be of two types: Class A and Class B. Occupancy load shall be
determined by the provisions of the state’s Building Code.
   (A)   Class A licenses. Class A licenses may be issued to restaurants which
have an occupancy load in excess of 100.
   (B)   Class B licenses. Restaurants which have an occupancy load of 100 or
less may be issued a Class B license.
(Prior Code, § 505.02)
§ 111.003 LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fees for restaurants shall be based upon the maximum
number of hours they are open in any one day for the consumption, selling or
serving of food with or without charge. The license fees shall be per the
city’s approved fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 505.03)
§ 111.004 HEALTH AND SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Unsanitary conditions prohibited. No person shall operate any
restaurant, café, dining room or eating house in the city if the same is in a
filthy, unclean or unsanitary condition.
   (B)   Diseased employees prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
work in or about any restaurant, café, dining room or eating house, or allow
any person to work in such place, whose condition is such that disease may be
spread to employee’s associates, directly or through the medium of food or food
products, likely to be eaten without being cooked after handling, whether the
condition be due to a contagious, infectious or venereal disease, in its active
or convalescent state or to the presence of disease germs, whether accompanied
by or without any symptoms of the disease itself.
(Prior Code, § 505.04) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.005 ENFORCEMENT.
   If, in the opinion of the county’s Department of Public Health or, in lieu
of the county department, the Police Department, after an investigation
thereof, any restaurant, café, dining room or eating house is operating in
violation of §
111.004(A) of this chapter, the enforcing agency shall notify, in writing, the
proprietor, owner or manager of the restaurant, café, dining room or eating
house to place the same in a clean and sanitary condition within a reasonable
time to be stated in the notice, which time so stated shall, in no case, be
less than two days, and failure to comply with the notice within the time so
stated shall be deemed a violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 505.05)
BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 111.045 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a bowling alley within the municipality without
first obtaining a license as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 507.01) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.046 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   The application for such license shall be made, in writing, to the City
Administrator and shall state the full name and address of the applicant, the
location where the business is to be carried on, the owner of the premises and
such other information as shall be required by the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 507.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 111.047 REVIEW OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   The City Administrator shall submit the application to the Council for its
consideration. The Council may grant or refuse to grant the license after
consideration of the application. It may require a public hearing, and the
hearing shall be held at the time and upon the notice as the Council may
determine. After the hearing, the Council may grant or refuse to grant the
license.
(Prior Code, § 507.03) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 951, passed 09-24-
2018)
§ 111.048 LICENSE FEES; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Fee and expiration. The fee for every license shall be per the city’s
approved fee schedule. Every license shall expire on December 31 next after its
issuance. License fees paid to renew an expired license shall be paid before
December 31 of the year preceding the effective year. Any annual fee paid later
than ten working days after December 31 shall be subject to an additional
administrative service charge of 10% of the renewal fee.
   (B)   Refund upon denial. If the Council denies the application for license,
one-half of the license fee shall be refunded to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 507.04) (Ord. 951, passed 09-24-2018; Ord. 981, passed 11-08-
2021)
§ 111.049 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Transferability. Licenses shall not be transferable from one person to
another.
   (B)   License to be posted. Every license shall be kept conspicuously posted
about the premises for which the license is issued and shall be exhibited to
any person upon request.
   (C)   Conditions and restrictions. The Council may impose any conditions or
restrictions it deems necessary or advisable in the public interest, including,
but not limited to, conditions relating to the hours of operation, the outside
lighting of the premises, parking facility and other conditions as the Council
deems to be best for the public interest. The Council may also reserve the
right to impose any conditions or restrictions at any time after the issuance
of a license hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 507.05)
§ 111.050 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Every such license may be revoked by the Council, after the licensee has
been given reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard, for the violation
of any provision of this code or for the violation of any conditions or
restrictions imposed at the time of the issuance of the license or imposed
thereafter or upon failure of the licensee to comply with any condition, order
or direction issued by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 507.06)
RIDES, CARNIVALS AND CIRCUSES
§ 111.065 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate, maintain or exhibit any itinerant amusement rides,
carnival or circus within the municipality without first obtaining a license as
provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 508.01) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.066 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for the license shall be made, in writing, to the City
Administrator and shall state the full name and address of the applicant, the
location where the amusement rides, carnival or circus is to be conducted, the
owner of the premises and other information as shall be required by the City
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 508.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 111.067 LICENSE FEES.
   The fee for every license shall be established by the city’s fee schedule of
the City Council and shall be paid at the time application is submitted to the
City Administrator. If the Council denies an application for license, the City
Administrator shall refund the license fee.
(Prior Code, § 508.03) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 111.068 REVIEW OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   The City Administrator shall verify the information supplied in the
application and conduct the investigation, as required by the Council, of the
applicant, proposed activities and premises. The Council shall require review
and recommendation from the Fire Chief and Police Chief before the license is
granted. The Council may require a public hearing on the application, and the
hearing shall be held at the time and upon the notice as the Council may
determine. The Council may grant or refuse to grant the license after
consideration of the application.
(Prior Code, § 508.04) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 111.069 BOND AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   Liability insurance requirements. The licensee shall obtain and keep
in full force and effect proper insurance coverage against any liability for
personal injury or property damage sustained by any persons as a result of the
operation of the amusement rides, carnival or circus. The insurance coverage
shall provide protection against liability up to a sum of at least $1,000,000
per property damage and in the amount of not less than $2,000,000 per
occurrence, insuring the operator against liability for injury to persons
arising out of the use of an amusement ride.
   (B)   Worker’s compensation. The licensee shall obtain and keep in full
force and effect proper insurance coverage against any liability for injury
sustained by any persons operating the licensed activities as required under
provisions of the Worker’s Compensation Act of the state.
   (C)   Certificates of insurance. The licensee shall submit to the City
Administrator satisfactory certificates of insurance for the coverage required
above.
   (D)   Bond. A bond may be required in a form and amount as specified by the
Council to guarantee compliance with such conditions as shall be herein
imposed.
(Prior Code, § 508.05) (Ord. 514, passed 08-24-1992; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010)
§ 111.070 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Conditions and restrictions. The Council may impose any conditions or
restrictions it deems necessary or advisable in the public interest, including,
but not limited to, conditions relating to the hours of operation, the outside
lighting of the premises and parking facility. The Council may also reserve the
right to impose any conditions or restrictions at any time after the issuance
of a license hereunder.
   (B)   Conduct of business. Any operator or owner of licensed amusement
rides, carnivals or circuses regulated hereunder shall conduct the operations
and premises in conformance with all laws and regulations of the state. The
operator or owner shall not permit any intoxicating liquor or any immoral
conduct or practices on the premises.
   (C)   Control of traffic. Any operator or owner shall control traffic
entering and leaving the premises so that it does not interfere with the
orderly flow of traffic on the public streets adjacent thereto.
   (D)   Cleaning of premises. The Council shall establish such conditions as
it deems appropriate to assure cleaning of the premises and all other
properties within a reasonable period after the event and may require a bond to
assure such.
(Prior Code, § 508.06) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.071 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The licensee shall indemnify and hold harmless the municipality and the
Council from any liability in whatsoever manner arising which may be incurred
by the licensee and the municipality as the result of the operation of
amusement rides, carnivals or circuses.
(Prior Code, § 508.07) (Ord. 951, passed 09-24-2018)
ULTIMATE FIGHTING
§ 111.085 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The City Council finds that the practice of ultimate fighting is dangerous
and puts the public health, safety and welfare at great risk.
(Prior Code, § 610.01)
§ 111.086 DEFINITION.
   ULTIMATE FIGHTING is any organized activity or event, regardless of how
named or described, or any other form of entertainment, where the primary
practice involves individuals engaged in physical contact by striking or
touching an opponent with the hands, feet, head or body. This shall include,
but not be limited to, any contest or event where kicking, punching, martial
arts or submission holds are permitted. Officially sanctioned and regulated
boxing and wrestling and team sports in which physical contact is incidental to
the primary purpose of the game, including, but not limited to, football,
basketball, volleyball, soccer, baseball and softball are not included among
activities prohibited by this subchapter. Martial arts training or contests
governed and sponsored by schools of martial arts are also not included among
the activities prohibited by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 610.02)
§ 111.087 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful to promote, host, organize, stage, conduct or
participate in the practice of ultimate fighting, as defined above, in any
public or private building or place.
(Prior Code, § 610.03) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.088 UNLAWFUL ACT.
   No person shall permit, promote or allow participation in ultimate fighting
in any establishment licensed by the city pursuant to this business regulations
title or any adjoining property owned or leased by the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 610.04) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.089 RIGHT OF INJUNCTION.
   The city or its designated representative may institute a lawsuit in
district court seeking injunctive relief against any individual that is
violating this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 610.05)
TATTOOS; BODY PIERCING, BRANDING, SCARRING AND
PAINTING ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.100 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the business of body art in
order to protect the health and welfare of the general public.
(Prior Code, § 515.01) (Ord. 663, passed 09-11-2000; Ord. 854, passed 10-21-
2010)
§ 111.101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BODY ART. Physical body adornment using, but not limited to, tattooing and
body piercing. BODY ART does not include practices and procedures that are
performed by a licensed medical or dental professional if the procedure is
within the professional’s scope of practice.
   BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT. Any structure or venue, whether permanent, temporary
or mobile, where body art is performed. Mobile establishments include vehicle-
mounted units, either motorized or trailered, and readily moveable without
disassembling and where body art procedures are regularly performed in more
than one geographic location.
   BODY PIERCING. The penetration or puncturing of the skin by any method for
the purpose of inserting jewelry or other objects in or through the body. BODY
PIERCING also includes branding, scarification, suspension, subdermal
implantation, microdermal and tongue bifurcation. BODY PIERCING does not
include the piercing of the outer perimeter or the lobe of the ear using a pre-
sterilized single-use stud-and-clasp ear-piercing system.
   TATTOOING. Any method of placing indelible ink or other pigments into or
under the skin or mucosa with needles or any other instruments used to puncture
the skin, resulting in permanent coloration of the skin or mucosa. TATTOOING
also includes micro-pigmentation and cosmetic tattooing.
(Prior Code, § 515.02) (Ord. 854, passed 10-21-2010)
§ 111.102 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Body art establishment license. No person acting individually or
jointly with any other person shall maintain, own or operate a body art
establishment in the city without obtaining a body art establishment license
issued by the state’s Commissioner of Health.
   (B)   Body art technician. No individual shall perform tattooing in the city
unless the individual holds a valid tattoo technician license issued by the
state’s Commissioner of Health. No individual shall perform body piercing in
the city unless the individual holds a valid body piercing technician license
issued by the state’s Commissioner of Health. If an individual performs both
tattooing and body piercing, the individual must hold a valid dual body art
technician license issued by the state’s Commissioner of Health.
(Prior Code, § 515.03) (Ord. 663, passed 09-11-2000; Ord. 854, passed 10-21-
2010) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.103 LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Zoning compliance. A body art establishment must be operated in a
location that is in conformance with
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Private residences. No place licensed by the state as a body art
establishment shall be located within a private residence.
   (C)   Mobile establishments. Mobile body art establishments are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 515.04) (Ord. 663, passed 09-11-2000; Ord. 854, passed 10-21-
2010) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.104 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   General licensing requirements are as follows.
   (A)   Hours of operation. A body art establishment shall not be open for
business for tattooing before 8:00 a.m., nor after 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   Adherence to codes. Body art establishments shall comply with
applicable state statutes, including, but not limited to, M.S. Ch. 146B, as it
may be amended from time to time, and all titles, chapters and sections of this
code of ordinances, including, but not limited to, those expressly stated as
follows:
Ch. 91,
114 and
116 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Maintenance of order. The operator of a body art establishment shall
be responsible for the conduct of the business being operated and shall at all
times maintain conditions of order.
(Prior Code, § 515.05) (Ord. 854, passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
111.999
LAWFUL GAMBLING
§ 111.115 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 349, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, provisions
relating to sales, and all other matters pertaining to lawful gambling are
hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this subchapter as if set
out in full. It is the intention of the Council that all future amendments of
M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
subchapter was adopted.
(Prior Code, § 518.01)
§ 111.116 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the
city to ensure the integrity of operations, and to provide for the use of net
profits only for lawful purposes.
(Prior Code, § 518.02)
§ 111.117 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 349.12, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
subchapter.
   BOARD. The state’s of Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   CITY. The City of Mounds View.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Mounds View.
   LICENSED ORGANIZATION. An organization licensed by the Board.
   LOCAL PERMIT. A permit issued by the city.
   TRADE AREA. The cities of Mounds View, Blaine, Shoreview, Arden Hills, New
Brighton, Fridley and Spring Lake Park.
(Prior Code, § 518.03)
§ 111.118 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall be construed to regulate all forms of lawful gambling
within the city, except bingo conducted pursuant to M.S. § 349.166, subd. 1(b),
as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 518.04)
§ 111.119 LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED WITH COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   Lawful gambling is permitted within the city; provided, it is conducted in
accordance with M.S. §§ 609.75 through 609.763, inclusive, as they may be
amended from time to time; M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.23, inclusive, as they
may be amended from time to time; and this subchapter. Lawful gambling shall
not be conducted unless approved by the Council, with the exception of exempt
or excluded lawful gambling as provided for in M.S. § 349.166, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 518.05) (Ord. 951, passed 09-24-2018) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.120 APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit shall file with
the City Administrator an executed, complete duplicate application, together
with all exhibits and documents accompanying the application as will be filed
with the State Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application of a premises permit, the City
Administrator shall transmit the application to the Chief of Police for review
and recommendation.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall make recommendation to the City Council as
soon as possible, but in no event later than ten working days following receipt
of the notification by the city.
   (D)   Organizations applying for a premises permit shall pay the city an
investigation fee per the city’s fee schedule. This fee shall be refunded if
the application is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced.
   (E)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the application for a premises permit.
   (F)   The Council shall consider the application within 45 days of the date
the application was submitted to the City Administrator.
   (G)   The Council shall, by resolution, approve or disapprove the
application within 60 days of receipt of the application.
   (H)   The Council shall deny an application for a premises permit for any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years;
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment, or organization leasing its
premises for gambling, of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances,
suppression of vice and protection of public safety within the last three
years;
      (3)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at premises other than those for
which an on-sale liquor license has been issued;
      (4)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at more than two premises within
the city;
      (5)   Failure of the applicant to pay the investigation fee required by
this subchapter within the prescribed time limit;
      (6)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety and welfare of the community; and
      (7)   The applicant’s registered place of business is not within the
trade area. This requirement may be waived by the Council for good or just
cause, at the Council’s sole discretion, if it is in the interest of the
community to do so.
(Prior Code, § 518.06) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 965, passed 08-26-
2019) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.121 LOCAL PERMITS.
   The city does not require that organizations conducting lawful gambling
excluded or exempted from state licensure requirements (M.S. § 349.166, as it
may be amended from time to time) obtain a local permit. The organization shall
provide proof of state exemption or exclusion if requested by the city.
(Prior Code, § 518.07)
§ 111.122 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LOCAL PERMIT.
   (A)   A local permit may be revoked, or temporarily suspended for a
violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state rule or city
ordinance relating to gambling.
   (B)   A permit shall not be revoked or suspended until written notice and an
opportunity for a hearing have first been given to the permitted person. The
notice shall be personally served or sent by certified or registered mail. If
the person refuses to accept notice, notice of the violation shall be served by
posting it on the premises. Notice shall state the provision reasonably
believed to be violated and shall also state that the permitted person may
demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the permit will not be suspended
until after the hearing is held. If the permitted person requests a hearing,
the Council shall hold a hearing on the matter at least one week after the date
on which the request is made. If, as a result of the hearing, the Council finds
that an ordinance violation exists, then the Council may suspend or revoke the
permit.
(Prior Code, § 518.08) (Ord. 965, passed 08-26-2019)
§ 111.123 LICENSE AND PERMIT DISPLAY.
   All licenses issued under state law or permits issued under this subchapter
shall be prominently displayed at the premises where gambling is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 518.09) (Ord. 965, passed 08-26-2019)
§ 111.124 NOTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CHANGES TO APPLICATION.
   An organization holding a state-issued premises permit or a local permit
shall notify the city within ten days in writing whenever any material change
is made in the information submitted on the application.
(Prior Code, § 518.10)
§ 111.125 DESIGNATED TRADE AREA.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct gambling within the city shall
expend at least 75% of its lawful purpose expenditures on lawful purposes
conducted within the city’s trade area.
   (B)   This subchapter applies only to lawful purpose expenditures of gross
profits derived from gambling conducted at a premises within the city’s
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 518.11)
§ 111.126 RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Organizations conducting lawful gambling shall file with the City
Administrator one copy of all records and reports required to be filed with the
Board, pursuant to M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time, and
rules adopted pursuant thereto, as they may be amended from time to time. The
records and reports shall be filed on or before the day they are required to be
filed with the Board.
   (B)   Organizations licensed by the Board shall file a report acceptable to
the city proving compliance with the trade area spending requirements imposed
by §
111.125 of this chapter. The report shall be submitted annually.
(Prior Code, § 518.12) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 951, passed 09-24-
2018; Ord. 965, passed 08-26-2019)
§ 111.127 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Lawful gambling shall not be conducted between 1:00 a.m. (or 2:00 a.m. if
the premises has been approved for the extended bar closing time) and 8:00 a.m.
on any day of the week.
(Prior Code, § 518.13) (Ord. 965, passed 08-26-2019) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.128 CONTRIBUTION OF NET PROFITS TO FUND ADMINISTERED BY CITY.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling within the city
pursuant to M.S. § 349.16, as it may be amended from time to time, shall
contribute 10% of its net profits derived from lawful gambling in the city to a
fund administered and regulated by the city without cost in the fund.
   (B)   Payment under this section shall be made annually on or before March 1
for the prior calendar year, and shall be submitted together with verifiable
supporting documentation.
   (C)   The city shall disburse the funds for charitable contributions as
defined by M.S. § 349.12, subd. 7a, as it may be amended from to time.
   (D)   The city must, by March 15 of each year, file a report with the Board
that lists all such revenues collected, interest received on fund balances and
expenditures for the previous calendar year and must acknowledge financial
contributions of organizations conducting lawful gambling to the community and
to the recipients of the funds.
(Ord. 965, passed 08-26-2019)
CHRISTMAS TREES
§ 111.140 DEFINITION.
   CHRISTMAS TREES shall be defined as natural trees used for decoration at
holiday time.
(Prior Code, § 520.01)
§ 111.141 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall directly or indirectly sell Christmas trees at retail in the
city without first obtaining a license from the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 520.02) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.142 APPLICATION.
   Every applicant for such a license shall file an application with the City
Administrator. The application shall be on a form supplied by the City
Administrator and shall contain the full name and address of the applicant,
address and property owners name of where the business is to be carried on, and
such other information as the application form may require. The license may
contain reasonable restrictions on the operation of the business.
(Prior Code, § 520.03)
§ 111.143 LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fee shall be per the city’s approved fee schedule, and
must be paid to the city at the time that the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 520.04)
§ 111.144 RESTRICTIONS OF SALE.
   (A)   Christmas tree lots shall only be located in business zoned districts.
(Prior Code, § 520.05)
   (B)   The provisions of §
160.198 of this code of ordinances are not applicable to Christmas tree sales.
(Prior Code, § 520.08)
§ 111.145 LICENSES NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   Licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter shall not be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 520.06)
§ 111.146 LICENSE EXPIRATION AND SITE CLEANUP.
   A license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall expire on January 15
following the date of granting. By such date, the premises described in the
application must be cleaned up and unsold trees removed. If the premises are
not cleaned up, the city may cause the premises to be cleaned up and charge the
cost to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 520.07) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
111.001 through
111.005 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. In addition, the
license provided for in §
111.001 of this chapter may be revoked by the Council upon due notice and a
public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 505.06)
   (C)    Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
111.045 through
111.050 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 507.07)
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
111.065 through
111.071 this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 508.08)
   (E)   Any person who promotes, hosts, organizes, stages, conducts or
participates in an ultimate fighting event or otherwise violates any provision
of §§
111.085 through
111.089 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 610.06)
   (F)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
111.100 through
111.104 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 515.06)
   (G)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
111.115 through
111.128 of this chapter, M.S. §§ 609.75 through 609.763, inclusive, as they may
be amended from time to time, or M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.21, as they may be
amended from time to time, or any rules promulgated under those sections, as
they may be amended from time to time shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term
not to exceed 90 days, or both, plus in either case the costs of prosecution.
In addition, violations shall be reported to the Board and recommendation shall
be made for suspension, revocation or cancellation of an organization’s
license.
(Prior Code, § 518.14)
   (H)   Any person violating any provision of §§
111.140 through
111.146 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. In addition, the
license provided for in §
111.141 of this chapter may be revoked by the Council upon due notice.
(Prior Code, § 520.09) (Ord. 663, passed 09-11-2000; Ord. 854, passed 10-21-
2010; Ord. 901, passed 05-26-2015; Ord. 965, passed 08-26-2019)
CHAPTER 112: VEHICLE-RELATED BUSINESSES
Section
Gasoline Stations
   
112.001   License required; definition
   
112.002   Application for license
   
112.003   Review of application; issuance or denial
   
112.004   License fees; expiration
   
112.005   Conditions of license; conduct of business
   
112.006   Revocation of license
New and Used Car Dealers
   
112.020   License required; definition
   
112.021   Application for license
   
112.022   Review of application; issuance or denial
   
112.023   License fee; expiration
   
112.024   Conditions of license
   
112.025   Revocation of license
 
   
112.999   Penalty
GASOLINE STATIONS
§ 112.001 LICENSE REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   No person shall operate a gasoline filling station within the municipality
without first obtaining a license as provided in this subchapter. For the
purpose of this subchapter, a GASOLINE FILLING STATION is hereby defined to be
any place, building, pump or device maintained and used for the main purpose of
selling gasoline or other oils for use in motor vehicles of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 509.01) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.002 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for the license shall be made, in writing, to the City
Administrator and shall state the full name and address of the applicant, the
location where the business is to be carried on, the owner of the premises, the
number and capacity of the gasoline storage tanks to be used, the number of
gasoline pumps and other information shall be required by the City
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 509.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 112.003 REVIEW OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall submit the application to the Council for
its consideration.
   (B)   The Council may grant or refuse to grant the license after
consideration of the application.
   (C)   The license application may require a public hearing, and that the
hearing be held at the time and upon the notice as the Council may determine.
After a hearing, the Council may grant or refuse to grant the license.
(Prior Code, § 509.03) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 951, passed 09-24-
2018)
§ 112.004 LICENSE FEES; EXPIRATION.
   The fee for every license shall be per the city’s approved fee schedule.
Every license shall expire on December 31 next after its issuance.
(Prior Code, § 509.04)
§ 112.005 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE; CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Transferability. A license shall not be transferable from one person
to another, and a new license must be applied for each time a place of business
is changed.
   (B)   License to be posted. Every such license shall be kept conspicuously
posted about the place for which the license is issued and shall be exhibited
to any person upon request.
   (C)   Conditions and restrictions. The Council may impose any conditions or
restrictions it deems necessary or advisable in the public interest, including,
but not being limited to, conditions relating to the hours of operation, the
lighting of the premises and the installation and maintenance of shrubbery,
fencing and grounds around the station. The Council may also impose any
conditions or restrictions at any time after the issuance of a license
hereunder.
   (D)   Compliance with laws. Every gasoline filling station shall be
maintained and conducted in compliance with the provisions of this code and the
laws of the state.
   (E)   Inspection of premises. Every gasoline filling station shall be
inspected at least once every year by the Fire Chief to see that the premises
are maintained in compliance with state law and this code and to see that there
is no dangerous accumulation of waste of other combustible material on the
premises. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to report to the Council any
violations of this code or statutes or any dangerous conditions or situations
which may be discovered during the inspection.
   (F)   Premises requirements. Premises used as gasoline stations must be kept
clean, in good repair and free and clear of any trash, rubbish, debris or junk
vehicles, as defined under this code.
(Prior Code, § 509.05) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.006 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Every license may be revoked by the Council, after the licensee has been
given reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard, for the violation of
any provision of this subchapter or for the violation of any conditions or
restrictions in the permit granting the license or any conditions or
restrictions imposed after the issuance of the license or upon failure of the
licensee to comply with any condition, order or direction issued by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 509.06)
NEW AND USED CAR DEALERS
§ 112.020 LICENSE REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   No person shall engage in the business of selling, trading or exchanging new
or used automobiles, domestic or foreign, within the municipality without first
obtaining a license as provided in this subchapter. For the purposes of this
subchapter, anyone who, as a part of his or her livelihood, engages in the
regular sale, trade or exchange of automobiles shall be deemed to be doing
business as a NEW OR USED AUTOMOBILE DEALER.
(Prior Code, § 510.01)
§ 112.021 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for the license shall be made, in writing, to the City
Administrator and shall state the full name and address of the applicant, the
location where the business is to be carried on and the owner of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 510.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 112.022 REVIEW OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   The City Administrator shall submit the application to the Council for its
consideration. The Council, by motion, may grant or refuse to grant the license
after consideration of the application. The Council may require that a public
hearing be held before the Council upon any application, the hearing to be held
at the time and upon the notice as the Council may determine. After a hearing,
the Council, by motion, may grant the license or refuse to grant the license.
(Prior Code, § 510.03) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 112.023 LICENSE FEE; EXPIRATION.
   The fee for every license shall be per the city’s approved fee schedule.
Every license shall expire on December 31 next after its issuance.
(Prior Code, § 510.04)
§ 112.024 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Transferability. The license shall not be transferable from one person
to another, and a new license must be applied for each time a place of business
is changed.
   (B)   License to be posted. Every license shall be kept conspicuously posted
about the place for which the license is issued and shall be exhibited to any
person upon request.
   (C)   Restrictions and conditions. The Council may impose any conditions or
restrictions it deems necessary or advisable in the public interest in the
motion granting any license hereunder, including, but not being limited to,
conditions relating to the hours of operation, the lighting of the business and
the installation and maintenance of shrubbery, fencing and grounds around the
business. The Council may also impose any such conditions or restrictions by
motion at any time after the issuance of a license hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 510.05) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.025 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Every license may be revoked by the Council after the licensee has been
given reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard for the violation of any
provision of this subchapter or for the violation of any conditions or
restrictions in the motion granting the license or any motion thereafter passed
by the Council or upon failure of the licensee to comply with any conditions,
order or direction issued by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 510.06)
§ 112.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
112.001 through
112.006 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 509.07)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
112.020 through
112.025 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 510.07)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS; COLLECTIONS
Section
Peddlers and Solicitors
   
113.001   Purpose
   
113.002   Definitions
   
113.003   Permit required
   
113.004   Application for permit
   
113.005   Permit fees
   
113.006   Investigation; issuance or denial of permit
   
113.007   Prohibited acts
   
113.008   Revocation or suspension of permit
   
113.009   Expiration of permit
   
113.010   Not-for-profit solicitor registration requirement
   
113.011   Enforcement
   
113.012   Appeals
   
113.013   Exemptions
   
113.014   Exclusion by placard or request
Donation Collection Bins
   
113.025   Definition
   
113.026   License required
   
113.027   Application for license
   
113.028   Review of application; issuance or denial
   
113.029   License fees; expiration
   
113.030   Conditions of license
   
113.031   Revocation of license
   
113.032   Exceptions
 
   
113.999   Penalty
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 113.001 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter has been enacted to protect residents of the city from
fraud, to prevent crime and to address other general safety and welfare
concerns.
(Prior Code, § 504.00) (Ord. 834, passed 10-10-2009)
§ 113.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NON-COMMERCIAL DOOR TO DOOR ADVOCATE. A person who goes door to door for
the primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social or other
ideological beliefs.
      PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, who goes from
house to house, from place to place or from street to street, conveying or
transporting goods, wares or merchandise or offering or exposing the same for
sale, or making sales and delivering articles immediately upon purchase to
purchasers. It does not include vendors of milk, bakery products, groceries or
ice who distribute their products to regular customers on established routes.
      PERSON or PERSONS. Any natural individual, group, organization,
corporation, partnership or similar association.
      SOLICITOR. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, who goes
from house to house, from place to place or from street to street, soliciting
or taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares or merchandise,
including magazines, books, periodicals or personal property of any nature
whatsoever for future delivery or for service to be performed in the future,
whether or not the order or whether or not the person is collecting advance
payments on the order. The definition includes any person who, for themselves
or for another person, firm or corporation, hires, leases, uses or occupies any
building, motor vehicle, trailer, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel
room, lodging house, apartment, shop or other place within the city for the
purpose of exhibiting samples or taking orders for future delivery. The absence
of catalogs or samples does not remove a person from the scope of this
provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above.
      TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Includes any person, firm or corporation, whether as
owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city or not, who
engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares or
merchandise within the city, and who, in furtherance of such purposes, hires,
leases, uses or occupies any building, parking lot, structure, motor vehicle,
trailer, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, public room in hotels, lodging houses,
apartments, for the exhibition and sale of the goods, wares and merchandise,
either privately or at public auction; provided that, the definition does not
include any person, firm or corporation who, while occupying the temporary
location, does not sell from stock, but exhibits samples for the purpose of
securing orders for future delivery only. The person, firm or corporation so
engaged is relieved from complying with the provisions of this subchapter
merely by reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader,
merchant or auctioneer or by conducting such transient business in connection
with, as a part of or in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or
auctioneer.
   (B)   Exceptions to definitions.
      (1)   For purposes of this subchapter, the terms PEDDLER, SOLICITOR and
TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to:
         (a)   Non-commercial door-to-door advocates. Nothing within this
chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict non-commercial door-to-
door advocates. Any person engaging in non-commercial door-to-door advocacy
shall not be required to obtain a permit or register as a solicitor under §
113.003 of this chapter;
         (b)   Any person conducting the type of sale commonly known as garage
sales, rummage sales or estate sales;
         (c)   Any person participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or
flea market;
         (d)   Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed
auctioneer; and/or
         (e)   Any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale.
      (2)   Exemption from these definitions shall not, for the scope of this
subchapter, excuse any person from complying with any other applicable
statutory provision or requirement provided by another city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 504.01) (Ord. 834, passed 10-10-2009; Ord. 951, passed 09-24-
2018)
§ 113.003 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided for in this subchapter, it is unlawful
for any peddler or transient merchant to engage in any such business within the
city without first obtaining a permit therefor in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter. Solicitors engaged in entirely for-profit,
commercial endeavors must obtain a permit to engage in such business within the
city. All other solicitors need not obtain a permit, but are required to
register with the city pursuant to §
113.010 of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any person may sell or peddle the products of the farm or garden
occupied and cultivated by him or her without obtaining a permit.
      (2)   No permit shall be required for any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street or any other type
of place-to-place movement for the primary purpose of exercising that person’s
state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, freedom
of the press, freedom of religion and the like. This exemption will not apply
if the person’s exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to what
would properly be considered a commercial activity.
   (C)   No permit issued under this subchapter shall be transferred to any
person other than the person to whom the permit was issued.
(Prior Code, § 504.02) (Ord. 834, passed 10-10-2009)
§ 113.004 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Applicants for a permit under this subchapter shall file with the City
Administrator a sworn application, in writing, on a form to be furnished by the
City Administrator and accompanied by the permit fee provided for in §
113.005 of this chapter.
   (B)   The application shall give the following information:
      (1)   Full legal name and physical description of applicant;
      (2)   Complete permanent home and local address and telephone numbers of
the applicant and, in the case of transient merchants, the local address from
which proposed sales will be made;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold;
      (4)   The name and address of the employer, principal or supplier of the
applicant, together with credentials therefrom establishing the exact
relationship;
      (5)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      (6)   The source of supply of the goods or property proposed to be sold
or orders taken for the sale thereof, where the goods or products are located
at the time the application is filed and the proposed method of delivery;
      (7)   A recent photograph of the applicant, which picture shall be
approximately two inches by two inches showing the head and shoulders of the
applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner;
      (8)   The names of at least two property owners of the county who will
certify as to the applicant’s good character and business respectability or, in
lieu of the names of references, such other available evidence as to the good
character and business responsibility of the applicant as will enable an
investigator to properly evaluate the character and business responsibility;
      (9)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance, other than
traffic violations, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty
assessed therefor;
      (10)   The last municipalities, not to exceed three, where the applicant
carried on business immediately preceding date of application and the addresses
from which such business was conducted in those municipalities;
      (11)   Proof of permit from the state or county, if applicable;
      (12)   If a transient merchant, written permission from property owner;
and
      (13)   The license plate of any vehicle used in conjunction with the
activity for which a permit is sought.
(Prior Code, § 504.03) (Ord. 834, passed 10-10-2009; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010)
§ 113.005 PERMIT FEES.
   The fee for every permit shall be per the city’s approved fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 504.04) (Ord. 834, passed 10-10-2009)
§ 113.006 INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Investigation. Upon receipt of each application and payment of the
fee, it shall be referred to the Chief of Police, who shall immediately
institute the investigation of the applicant’s business and moral character as
he or she deems necessary for the protection of the public good and shall
endorse the application in the manner prescribed in this section within seven
business days after it has been filed by the applicant with the City
Administrator.
   (B)   Denial of permit. If, as a result of such investigation, the
applicant’s character or business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory,
the Chief of Police shall endorse on the application any disapproval and the
reasons for the same and return the application to the City Administrator, who
shall notify the applicant within seven business days that the application is
disapproved and that no permit will be issued.
   (C)   Grounds for denial of permit.
      (1)   The failure of an applicant to obtain and demonstrate proof of
having obtained any required county permit or state license;
      (2)   The failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
requested by the city as part of the application process;
      (3)   The failure of an applicant to sign the permit application;
      (4)   The failure of an applicant to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
      (5)   A conviction within the past five years of the date of application
for any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation, or of any
local ordinance, which adversely reflects upon the person’s ability to conduct
the business for which the permit is being sought in a professional, honest and
legal manner. The violations shall include, but are not limited to, burglary,
theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices and any form of
actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
      (6)   The revocation within the past five years of any license or permit
issued to an applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler,
solicitor, or transient merchant; and
      (7)   When an applicant has a bad business reputation. Evidence of a bad
business reputation shall include, but is not limited to, the existence of more
than three complaints against an applicant with the Better Business Bureau, the
Office of the Minnesota Attorney General or other state attorney general’s
office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or agency, within
the proceeding 12 months, or three complaints filed with the city against an
applicant within the preceding five years.
   (D)   Appeal of denial. Any person whose permit application is denied under
this section shall have the right to appeal that decision as provided in §
113.012 of this chapter.
   (E)   Approval and issuance of permit; contents. If, as a result of the
investigation, the character and business responsibility of the applicant are
found to be satisfactory, the Chief of Police shall endorse the approval on the
application and return the application to the City Administrator, who shall
deliver to the applicant the permit within three business days. The permit
shall contain the signature of the issuing officer and shall show the name,
address and photograph of the permittee, the class of the permit issued and the
kinds of goods or services to be sold thereunder, the date of issuance that the
same shall be operative, as well as the permit number and other identifying
description of any vehicle used in the licensed business.
(Prior Code, § 504.05) (Ord. 834, passed 10-10-2009; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010; Ord. 951, passed 09-24-2018)
§ 113.007 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door
advocate or other person engaged in other similar activities shall conduct
business in any of the following manners:
   (A)   Failing to provide proof of permit, registration or identification
when requested, or carrying a permit or certificate or another person.
Transient merchants must display their permit in a conspicuous place on their
premises;
   (B)   Conducting business in a way that creates a threat to the public
health, safety and welfare of any specific individual or the general public or
otherwise operating one’s business in any manner that a reasonable person would
find obscene, threatening or abusive;
   (C)   Shouting, crying out, blowing a horn, ringing a bell or using any
sound amplifying device upon any of the streets, alleys, parks or other public
places of the city or upon premises where sound of sufficient volume is emitted
or produced therefrom to be capable of being plainly heard upon the streets,
avenues, alleys, parks or other public places for the purpose of attracting
attention to any goods, wares or merchandise which the person proposes to sell;
   (D)   Claiming an exclusive right to any location in the public streets or
any stationary location thereon or operating in a congested area where such
operation might impede or inconvenience the public use of the streets. For the
purpose of this subchapter, the judgment of a police officer, exercised in good
faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is congested and the
public impeded or inconvenienced;
   (E)   Alleging false or misleading statements about the products or services
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No person shall claim
to have the endorsement of the city based solely on the city’s issuance of a
permit or certificate of registration;
   (F)   Conducting business before 9:00 a.m. and after 8:00 p.m.; and
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave.
(Prior Code, § 504.06) (Ord. 564, passed 06-26-1995; Ord. 834, passed 10-10-
2009) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.008 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Cause for revocation or suspension. Permits issued under the
provisions of this subchapter may be revoked or suspended by the City Council,
after notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement contained in the
application for permit;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement made in the course
of carrying on the permitted activity;
      (3)   Any violation of this subchapter;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor; and/or
      (5)   Engaging in any prohibited activity as provided under §
113.007 of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice of hearing. Notice of the hearing for revocation or suspension
of a permit shall be given by the City Administrator, in writing, setting forth
specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and place of hearing. The
notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the permittee at the permittee’s
last known address at least five days prior to the date set for hearing or
shall be delivered by a police officer in the same manner as a summons at least
three days prior to the date set for hearing.
   (C)   Appeal. Any person whose permit is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision as provided in §
113.012 of this chapter.
   (D)   Reapplication. No permittee whose permit has been revoked shall make
further application until at least six months have elapsed since the last
previous revocation.
   (E)   Emergency revocation. If, in the discretion of the City Council,
imminent harm to the health or safety of the public may occur because of the
actions of a peddler or transient merchant permitted under this section, the
City Council may immediately suspend a person’s permit and provide notice of
the right to hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (B)
above.
(Prior Code, § 504.07) (Ord. 834, passed 10-10-2009; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010)
§ 113.009 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   All annual permits issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall
expire at midnight December 31 in the year when issued. Other than annual
licenses shall expire at midnight on the date specified in the license.
(Prior Code, § 504.08)
§ 113.010 NOT-FOR-PROFIT SOLICITOR REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any solicitor that is not required to obtain a permit under §
113.003(A) shall be required to register with the city prior to engaging in
those activities. Registration shall be made on the same form as required for a
permit application, but no fee shall be required. Immediately upon completion
of the registration form, the City Administrator shall issue the registrant a
certificate of registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of
registration shall be non-transferable.
   (B)   Individuals that will be engaging in non-commercial door to door
advocacy shall not be required to register.
(Prior Code, § 504.09) (Ord. 834, passed 10-10-2009; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010)
§ 113.011 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Duty of police. It shall be the duty of the city police to require any
person seen conducting activities regulated by this subchapter and who is not
known by such officer to have obtained a permit or certificate hereunder to
produce the permit or certificate and to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter against any person found to be violating the same.
   (B)   Records. The Chief of Police shall report to the City Administrator
all convictions for violations of this subchapter, and the City Administrator
shall maintain a record for each permit issued and record the reports of
violation therein.
(Prior Code, § 504.10) (Ord. 834, passed 10-10-2009; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010)
§ 113.012 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or the City
Administrator in the denial, revocation, or suspension of a permit as provided
in §§
113.006 and
113.008 of this chapter may appeal to the Council. The appeal shall be taken by
filing with the Council within 14 days after notice of the action complained of
by a written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The
Council shall set a time and place for a hearing on such appeal within 20 days,
and notice of the hearing shall be given to the appellant in the same manner as
provided in §
113.008 of this chapter for notice of hearing on revocation.
(Prior Code, § 504.11) (Ord. 834, passed 10-10-2009; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010)
§ 113.013 EXEMPTIONS.
   The terms of this subchapter do not include the acts of persons selling
personal property at wholesale to dealers in such articles, to newspaper
carriers or to the acts of merchants or their employees in delivering goods in
the regular course of business. Nothing contained in this subchapter prohibits
any sale required by statute or by order of any court or prevents any person
conducting a bona fide auction sale pursuant to law.
(Prior Code, § 504.12) (Ord. 834, passed 10-10-2009)
§ 113.014 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD OR REQUEST.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupant or
occupants of the premises approached by any person subject to this subchapter
or otherwise engaged in similar activities can determine whether that person
shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective properties. Any person
subject to this subchapter or otherwise engaged in similar activities must
immediately and peacefully leave any property where the property owner has
posted a sign or placard stating “No peddlers or solicitors” or other
comparable statement. Any person subject to this subchapter or otherwise
engaged in similar activities who has gained entrance to any property, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 504.13) (Ord. 564, passed 06-26-1995; Ord. 834, passed 10-10-
2009)
DONATION COLLECTION BINS
§ 113.025 DEFINITION.
   DONATION COLLECTION BIN is a receptacle used for the collection of various
items for recycling or resale including, but not limited to, clothing, shoes,
textiles, books, household items, glass, paper or metals.
(Prior Code, § 519.01)
§ 113.026 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall locate a donation collection bin in the city without first
obtaining a license as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 519.02) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.027 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   The application for the license shall be made, in writing, to the City
Administrator and shall state the full name and address of the applicant, the
company name of the owner/operator or the bin (if different from the
applicant), the property address and site plan depicting the specific location
where the donation collection bin is to be sited, statement of permission from
the property owner of the premises (if different from the applicant), 24-hour
emergency contact information for the owner/operator, proof of insurance,
license fee and other information as shall be required by the City
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 519.03)
§ 113.028 REVIEW OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   The City Administrator shall submit the application to the Council for its
consideration. The Council may grant or refuse to grant the license after
consideration of the application. It may require a public hearing, and the
hearing shall be held at the time and upon the notice as the Council may
determine. After the hearing, the Council may grant or refuse to grant the
license.
(Prior Code, § 519.04)
§ 113.029 LICENSE FEES; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Fee and expiration. The fee for every license shall be per the city’s
approved fee schedule. Every such license shall expire on December 31 next
after its issuance. License fees paid to renew an expired license shall be paid
on or before December 31 of the year preceding the effective year. Any annual
fee paid later than ten working days after December 31 shall be subject to an
additional administrative service charge of 10% of the renewal fee.
   (B)   Refund upon denial. If the Council denies the application for license,
one-half of the license fee shall be refunded to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 519.05)
§ 113.030 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Transferability. Licenses shall not be transferable from one person to
another.
   (B)   Conditions and restrictions. The following conditions and restrictions
shall apply to all donation collection bins.
      (1)   Donation collection bins may only be located on properties with an
existing and operating noncommercial, educational, religious, governmental,
institutional or charitable use.
      (2)   The bins shall be located on an improved surface behind the front
line of the principle structure. Bins shall be maintained in a like-new
condition.
      (3)   Donation collection bins shall not be visible from the County Road
10 right-of-way.
      (4)   Donation collection bins shall not exceed seven feet in height and
25 square feet in ground area. Only one bin may be permitted per property.
      (5)   The bin shall not reduce the width of paved clear space for the
passage of pedestrians to less than five feet, shall not be located within five
feet of a fire hydrant or fire department connection, and shall not utilize any
required parking spaces or impede/disrupt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
      (6)   Notice shall be affixed to such bins indicating the “company” name
and phone number of the bin’s owner and operator and a statement discouraging
the placement of items outside the bin, of a size sufficient to be legible at a
distance of three feet. Any advertising shall be affixed to the bin only and
shall be limited to no more than eight square feet.
      (7)   The owner and operator of the bin shall maintain and provide proof
of $1,000,000 general liability insurance coverage for each location where a
bin is located.
      (8)   Items left outside the bin shall be collected and removed within
24-hour notice provided to the owner and operator of the bin.
      (9)   The Council may impose any additional conditions or restrictions it
deems reasonably necessary or advisable.
(Prior Code, § 519.06)
§ 113.031 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Every such license may be revoked by the Council, after the licensee has
been given reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard, for the violation
of any provision of this code or for the violation of any conditions or
restrictions imposed at the time of the issuance of the license or imposed
thereafter or upon failure of the licensee to comply with any condition, order
or direction issued by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 519.07)
§ 113.032 EXCEPTIONS.
   Educational, religious, charitable or other non-profit entities hosting a
donation collection bin on a temporary basis for fund-raising purposes are
exempt from the licensing requirements and the provisions in §
113.030(B)(3) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 519.08)
§ 113.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
113.001 through
113.014 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 504.14)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
113.025 through
113.032 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 519.09) (Ord. 880, passed 08-26-2013)
CHAPTER 114: RECUPERATIVE AND THERAPEUTIC BUSINESSES
Section
Therapeutic Massage
   
114.001   Findings
   
114.002   Definitions
   
114.003   License required
   
114.004   Exemptions
   
114.005   General rule
   
114.006   License application
   
114.007   Application and investigation fees
   
114.008   Application verification and consideration
   
114.009   Persons ineligible to hold license
   
114.010   Locations ineligible for therapeutic massage enterprise license
   
114.011   General license restrictions
   
114.012   Sanitation and health
   
114.013   License term; renewals
   
114.014   Suspension; revocation
   
114.015   Temporary therapist license
   
114.016   Hours of operation
Recuperative Homes and Halfway Houses
   
114.030   Definition
   
114.031   License required
   
114.032   Application for license
   
114.033   License fees; expiration
   
114.034   Transferability
   
114.035   Inspection of premises
   
114.036   Zoning
 
   
114.999   Penalty
THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE
§ 114.001 FINDINGS.
   It is found and determined that:
   (A)   Persons who have recognized and standardized training in therapeutic
massage, health and hygiene provide a legitimate and necessary service to the
general public;
   (B)   Health and sanitation regulations governing therapeutic massage
enterprises and massage therapists will minimize the risk of the spread of
communicable diseases and promote health and sanitation;
   (C)   License qualifications for therapeutic massage enterprises and massage
therapists will minimize the risk that the businesses and persons may
facilitate prostitution and other criminal activity in the city; and
   (D)   Massage services provided by persons without recognized and
standardized training in massage can endanger citizens by facilitating the
spread of communicable diseases, by exposing citizens to unhealthy and
unsanitary conditions and by increasing the risk of personal injury.
(Prior Code, § 514.01)
§ 114.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEAN. The absence of dirt, grease, rubbish, garbage and other offensive,
unsightly or extraneous matter.
   IN GOOD REPAIR. Free of corrosion, breaks, cracks, chips, pitting, excessive
wear and tear, leaks, obstructions and similar defects.
   IN THE CITY. Physical presence as well as telephone referrals such as phone-
a-massage operations in which the business premises, although not physically
located within the city, serves as a point of assignment of employees who
respond to requests for services in the city.
   MASSAGE. The rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping or rolling of the body of
another person with the hands for the purpose of physical fitness, health care
referral, relaxation and for no other purpose.
   OPERATE. To own, manage or conduct, or to have control, charge or custody
over.
   RECOGNIZED SCHOOL. Any school or institution of learning which has for its
purpose the teaching of the theory, method, profession or work of a massage
therapist that requires a resident course of study that requires not less than
70 hours before the student is issued a diploma or certificate of graduation.
If the school or institution is located in the United States, it must have
current membership in good standing in the American Massage and Therapy
Association or other recognized professional massage organization. If the
school or learning institution is located outside of the United States, the
applicant must provide the city with decipherable documentation that shows that
he or she attended a school or learning institution that is equivalent to
attending a school or learning institution in the United States in both its
course of study and diploma or graduation requirements. Schools offering a
correspondence course not requiring actual physical attendance of class shall
not be deemed a RECOGNIZED SCHOOL.
   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE ENTERPRISE. A place of business providing massage
services to the public for consideration: the term does not include a hospital,
sanitarium, rest home, nursing home, boarding home or other institution for the
hospitalization or care of other human beings duly licensed under the
provisions of M.S. §§ 144.50 through 144.69, as they may be amended from time
to time.
   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE THERAPIST. A person who practices or administers massage
to the public for consideration.
(Prior Code, § 514.02) (Ord. 817, passed 04-02-2009)
§ 114.003 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise. It is unlawful to operate, offer,
engage in or carry on massage services in the city without a therapeutic
massage enterprise license.
   (B)   Therapeutic massage therapist license. It is unlawful to practice,
administer or provide massage services in the city without a therapeutic
massage therapist license.
(Prior Code, § 514.03) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.004 EXEMPTIONS.
   A therapeutic massage enterprise license or therapeutic massage therapist
license is not required for the following persons and places:
   (A)   Persons licensed by the state to practice medicine, surgery,
osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy or podiatry; provided that, the
massage is administered in the regular course of the medical treatment not
provided as part of a separate and distinct massage business;
   (B)   Persons licensed by the state as beauty culturists or barbers;
provided, the persons do not hold themselves out as giving massage treatments
and provided that massage by beauty culturists is limited to the head, hand,
neck and feet and the massage by barbers is limited to the head and neck;
   (C)   Persons working solely under the direction and control of a person
duly licensed by the state to practice medicine, surgery, osteopathy,
chiropractic, physical therapy or podiatry;
   (D)   Places licensed or operating as a hospital, nursing home, hospice,
sanitarium or group home established for hospitalization or medical care; and
   (E)   Athletic coaches, directors and trainers employed by public or private
schools.
(Prior Code, § 514.04)
§ 114.005 GENERAL RULE.
   The owner or operator of a licensed therapeutic massage enterprise may
employ only licensed therapeutic massage therapists to provide massage
services. The owner or operator of a licensed therapeutic massage enterprise
need not be licensed as a therapeutic massage therapist unless that owner or
operator personally provides massage services.
(Prior Code, § 514.05)
§ 114.006 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise. The application for a therapeutic
massage enterprise license must contain the following information:
      (1)   For all applicants:
         (a)   Whether the applicant is an individual, corporation, partnership
or other form of organization;
         (b)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed together
with a plan of the area showing dimensions, location of buildings, street
access and parking facilities;
         (c)   The floor number, street number and rooms where the massage
services are to be conducted;
         (d)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid and, if not, the
years and amounts that are unpaid;
         (e)   If the application is for premises either planned or under
construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application must be
accompanied by preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed premises;
if the plans for design are on file with the Building Inspector, no plans need
be submitted;
         (f)   The name and street address of the business if it is to be
conducted under a designation, name or style other than the name of the
applicant, and a certified copy of the certificate required by M.S. § 333.02,
as it may be amended from time to time;
         (g)   Written consent of property owner, if applicant is not the
property owner; and
         (h)   Other information that the City Council may require.
      (2)   For applicants who are individuals:
         (a)   The name and date of birth of the applicant and the applicant’s
residence address;
         (b)   If the applicant has ever used or been known by a name other
than the applicant’s name and, if so, the name or names and information
concerning the dates and places where used;
         (c)   Residence addresses of the applicant during five years preceding
the date of application;
         (d)   The type, name and location of every business or occupation the
applicant has been engaged in during the preceding five years;
         (e)   Names and addresses of the applicant’s employers for the
preceding five years;
         (f)   If the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, crime or
violation of an ordinance other than a minor traffic offense; if so, the
applicant must furnish information as to the time, place and offense involved
in the convictions; and
         (g)   If the applicant has ever been engaged in the operation of
massage services; if so, the applicant must furnish information as to the name,
place and length of time of the involvement in the activity.
      (3)   For applicants that are partnerships:
         (a)   The names and addresses of general and limited partners and the
information concerning each general partner described in division (A)(2) above;
         (b)   The managing partners must be designated, and the interest of
each general and limited partner in the business must be disclosed; and
         (c)   A true copy of the partnership agreement must be submitted with
the application, and if the partnership is required to file a certificate as to
a trade name under M.S. § 333.02, as it may be amended from time to time, a
certified copy of that certificate must be submitted. The license if issued
will be in the name of the partnership.
      (4)   For applicants that are corporations:
         (a)   The name of the organization, and if incorporated, the state of
incorporation;
         (b)   A true copy of the certificate of incorporation, and, if a
foreign corporation, a certificate of authority as described in M.S. § 303.02,
as it may be amended from time to time;
         (c)   The name of the general manager, corporate officers, proprietor
and other person in charge of the premises to be licensed, and the information
about those persons described in division (A)(2) above;
         (d)   A list of the persons who own or have a controlling interest in
the corporation or organization or who are officers of the corporation or
organization, together with their addresses and the information regarding the
persons described in division (A)(2) above.
   (B)   Therapeutic massage therapist. An application for a therapeutic
massage therapist license must contain the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name and address;
      (2)   The applicant’s current employer;
      (3)   The applicant’s employers for the previous five years, including
employer’s name, address and dates of employment;
      (4)   The applicant’s residence address for the previous five years;
      (5)   The applicant’s Social Security number, date of birth, home
telephone number, weight, height, color of eyes and color of hair;
      (6)   If the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, crime or
violation of an ordinance other than a minor traffic offense and, if so, the
time, place and offense involved in the convictions;
      (7)   If the applicant has ever used or been known by a name other than
the applicant’s name and, if so, the name or names and information concerning
dates and places where used;
      (8)   Evidence that the applicant:
         (a)   Has legal work status in the United States;
         (b)   Has a diploma or certificate of graduation from a recognized
school;
         (c)   Has current insurance coverage with liability limits of at least
$1,000,000 for professional liability in the practice of massage;
         (d)   Is affiliated with, employed by or owns a therapeutic massage
enterprise licensed by the city;
         (e)   In addition to the 70 hours of resident study, applicant must
complete at least 400 hours of certified therapeutic massage training as part
of earning a diploma or certificate from a recognized school; and
         (f)   Has at least one year of experience practicing massage therapy
as established by an affidavit.
      (9)   Other information that the City Council may require.
(Prior Code, § 514.06) (Ord. 870, passed 04-19-2012; Ord. 817, passed 04-02-
2009) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.007 APPLICATION AND INVESTIGATION FEES.
   The fees for a massage enterprise and therapist licenses are set forth per
the city’s approved fee schedule. An investigation fee will be charged for
therapeutic massage enterprise licenses. An application for either license must
be accompanied by payment in full of the required license and investigation
fees, if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 514.07)
§ 114.008 APPLICATION VERIFICATION AND CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise license. The City Administrator must
verify the information supplied on the license application and investigate the
background, including the criminal background, of the applicant to assure
compliance with this section. Within 90 days of receipt of a complete
application and fee for a therapeutic massage enterprise license, the City
Administrator must make a written recommendation to the City Council as to
issuance or non-issuance of the license. The City Council may order additional
investigation if it deems it necessary, but must grant or deny the application
within 120 days of receipt by the City Administrator of the complete
application and required fees.
   (B)   Therapeutic massage therapist license. Within 90 days of receipt of a
complete application and fee for a therapeutic massage therapist license, the
City Administrator must grant or deny the application. Notice will be sent to
the applicant upon a denial informing the applicant of the right to appeal to
the City Council within 20 days. If an appeal is properly made, the matter will
be placed on the next available City Council agenda.
(Prior Code, § 514.08) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 114.009 PERSONS INELIGIBLE TO HOLD LICENSE.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise license. A therapeutic massage
enterprise license may not be issued to or held by an individual who:
      (1)   Is a minor;
      (2)   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as set forth in M.S. § 364.03, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time
to time, and who has not shown competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation
and present fitness to perform the duties and responsibilities of a licensee as
prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   Is not of good moral character or repute;
      (4)   Is not the real party in interest of the enterprise; and/or
      (5)   Has misrepresented or falsified information on the license
application.
   (B)   Therapeutic massage therapist license. A therapeutic massage therapist
license may not be issued to or held by a person who could not qualify for a
therapeutic massage enterprise license or who is not:
      (1)   Affiliated with;
      (2)   Employed by; or
      (3)   Does not hold, a therapeutic massage enterprise license.
(Prior Code, § 514.09) (Ord. 817, passed 04-02-2009)
§ 114.010 LOCATIONS INELIGIBLE FOR THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE ENTERPRISE LICENSE.
   (A)   General. A therapeutic massage enterprise may not be licensed if the
enterprise is located on property on which taxes, assessments or other
financial claims to the state, county, school district or city are due and
delinquent. In the event a suit has been commenced under M.S. §§ 278.01 through
278.13, as they may be amended from time to time, questioning the amount or
validity of taxes, the City Council may on application waive strict compliance
with this provision; no waiver may be granted, however, for taxes or any
portion thereof, which remain unpaid for a period exceeding one year after
becoming due.
   (B)   Zoning compliance. A therapeutic massage enterprise may not be
licensed if the location of such enterprise is not in conformance with Ch. 160
of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 514.10) (Ord. 870, passed 05-19-2012) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.011 GENERAL LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Posting. A therapeutic massage enterprise license issued must be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises for which it is used. A person
licensed as a therapeutic massage therapist must have in possession a copy of
the license when therapeutic massage services are being rendered.
   (B)   Area. A therapeutic massage enterprise license is effective only for
the compact and contiguous space specified in the approved license application.
If the licensed premises are enlarged, altered or extended, the licensee must
inform the City Administrator. A licensed therapeutic massage therapist may
perform on-site massage at a business, public gathering, private home or other
site not on the therapeutic massage enterprise premises.
   (C)   Transfer. The license issued is for the person or the premises named
on the approved license application. Transfer of a license from place to place
or from person to person is not permitted.
   (D)   Coverings. The therapist must require that the person who is receiving
the massage will at all times have that person’s breasts, buttocks, anus and
genitals covered with non-transparent material or clothing. A therapist
performing massage must have the therapist’s breasts, buttocks, anus and
genitals covered with a non-transparent material or clothing.
   (E)   Prohibited massage. A therapist may not intentionally massage or offer
to massage the penis, scrotum, mons veneris, vulva or vaginal area of a person.
(Prior Code, § 514.11) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.012 SANITATION AND HEALTH.
   (A)   A therapeutic massage enterprise must be equipped with adequate and
conveniently located toilet rooms for the accommodation of its employees and
patrons. The toilet room must be well ventilated by natural or mechanical
methods and be enclosed with a door. The toilet room must be kept clean and in
good repair and be fully and adequately illuminated.
   (B)   A therapeutic massage enterprise must provide single-service disposal
paper or clean linens to cover the table, chair, furniture or area on which the
patron receives the massage. If the table, chair or furniture on which a patron
receives the massage is made of material impervious to moisture, the table,
chair or furniture must be sanitized after each massage.
   (C)   The therapeutic massage therapist must wash the therapist’s hands and
arms with water and soap, anti-bacterial scrubs, alcohol or other disinfectants
prior to and following each massage service performed.
   (D)   Massage tables, chairs or furniture on which the patron receives the
massage must have surfaces that can be readily disinfected after each massage.
   (E)   Rooms in a therapeutic massage enterprise must be fully and adequately
illuminated.
   (F)   A therapeutic massage enterprise must have a janitor’s closet that
provides for the storage of cleaning supplies.
   (G)   Therapeutic massage enterprises must provide adequate refuse
receptacles that must be emptied as required by this code.
   (H)   Therapeutic massage enterprises must be maintained in good repair and
sanitary condition.
   (I)   Therapeutic massage enterprises must comply with the requirements of
the state’s Indoor Clean Air Act, being M.S. §§ 144.411 et seq., as amended
from time to time.
   (J)   A therapeutic massage enterprise must take reasonable steps to prevent
the spread of infections and communicable diseases on the licensed premises.
   (K)   Massage therapists must wear clean clothing when performing massage
services.
(Prior Code, § 514.12) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.013 LICENSE TERM; RENEWALS.
   (A)   Licenses expire annually on December 31.
   (B)   The license fee will be prorated in 30-day increments for licenses
issued after June 30.
   (C)   The City Administrator must prepare an application form for the
renewal of a license requiring information that he or she determines necessary
for consideration of the renewal.
   (D)   The renewal application must be made no later than November 30.
(Prior Code, § 514.13) (Ord. 817, passed 04-02-2009; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010)
§ 114.014 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this subchapter may be suspended or revoked by the
City Council by resolution upon notice and public hearing for any violation of
this subchapter, a conviction of any crime directly related to the therapeutic
massage occupation unless competent evidence can be shown of sufficient
rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties of the occupation as
set forth in M.S. § 364.03, as it may be amended from time to time, or any
fraud, misrepresentations or incorrect statement in the license application or
in the course of operating or conducting business.
(Prior Code, § 514.14) (Ord. 817, passed 04-02-2009)
§ 114.015 TEMPORARY THERAPIST LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Administrator may issue a temporary therapeutic massage
therapist license as provided in this section.
   (B)   A temporary massage therapist license may be issued to a person who:
      (1)   Is qualified to hold a massage therapist license under this
section; and
      (2)   Has completed the required application and paid the license fee at
least seven days prior to the effective date of the license.
   (C)   A temporary license is effective for four consecutive days. A person
may not be issued more than three temporary licenses in any period of 360
consecutive days.
   (D)   All other provisions of this subchapter apply to temporary licenses.
(Prior Code, § 514.15) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 114.016 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   A licensed therapeutic massage enterprise may not operate for business
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 514.16) Penalty, see §
114.999
RECUPERATIVE HOMES AND HALFWAY HOUSES
§ 114.030 DEFINITION.
   The following definition shall apply unless context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   RECUPERATIVE HOME. Any institution, place, building or structure in which
any accommodation is maintained, furnished or offered for the recuperation of
human beings, which is the care required by a person because of emotional
problems brought about by the use of drugs, alcohol, marital problems or other
causes of emotional difficulties.
(Prior Code, § 113.02)
§ 114.031 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, profit or nonprofit, shall establish, conduct or maintain a
recuperative home or half-way house for the care of human beings in the city
without first obtaining a license therefor in the manner hereafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.032 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Contents of application. Any person desiring a license shall file with
the Council a verified application containing the name of the applicant
desiring said license, whether such persons so applying are 21 years of age,
the type of institution to be operated, the location thereof, the name of the
persons in charge thereof and such other information pertinent thereto as the
Council, by regulation, may require. Application on behalf of a corporation or
association shall be made by any two officers thereof or by its managing
agents.
(Prior Code, § 113.04)
   (B)   Requirements of applicant. Before license shall be issued, the person
applying shall submit evidence satisfactory to the Council and the proper
health official that the licensee is not less than 21 years of age and is of
reputable and responsible character. In the event the applicant is an
association or corporation, like evidence shall be submitted to the members
thereof and the persons in charge. All applicants shall, in addition, submit
satisfactory evidence of their ability to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter and all rules, regulations and minimum standards adopted hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 113.03)
§ 114.033 LICENSE FEES; EXPIRATION.
   Each application for a license to operate a recuperative home within the
meaning of this subchapter shall be accompanied by a fee per the city’s
approved fee schedule. No such fee shall be refunded. All licenses shall expire
annually on December 31. An application for renewal of the license shall be
filed not later than December 31. All such fees shall be received by the
Council and shall be paid to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 113.05)
§ 114.034 TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license granted hereunder shall be assignable or transferable.
(Prior Code, § 511.05)
§ 114.035 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   Every building, institution or establishment for which a license has been
issued shall be periodically inspected by the proper health official under the
rules and regulations to be established by the state. No institution of any
kind licensed pursuant to the provisions of M.S. §§ 144.50 to 144.56, as they
may be amended from time to time, shall be required to be licensed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 113.06)
§ 114.036 ZONING.
   Any institution, place, building or agency that is to be used for a
recuperative home shall not be established in the municipality unless it
conforms to the provisions of
Chapter 160 as said chapter applies to hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes and/
or nursing homes.
(Prior Code, § 113.07)
§ 114.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
114.001 through
114.016 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 514.17)
   (C)    Any person violating the provisions of §§
114.030 through
114.036 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 113.08) (Ord. 583, passed 09-23-1996)
CHAPTER 115: PAWNSHOPS
Section
   
115.001   Purpose
   
115.002   Definitions
   
115.003   License required
   
115.004   Application for license
   
115.005   Investigation by Police Department
   
115.006   Term of license and renewals
   
115.007   License fees
   
115.008   Billable transaction fees
   
115.009   Bond requirement
   
115.010   Ineligible persons and locations
   
115.011   General license requirements
   
115.012   Alarm system requirement
   
115.013   Suspension or revocation of licenses
   
115.014   Prohibited acts
   
115.015   Adoption by reference
§ 115.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council finds that pawnbroker regulation is appropriate
because the activities provide an opportunity for the commission of crimes and
their concealment because the businesses have the ability to receive and
transfer stolen property easily and quickly. The City Council also finds that
consumer protection regulation of the activities is warranted because customers
of the businesses frequently seek their services during times of desperate
financial circumstances.
   (B)   To help the city to better regulate current and future pawn
businesses, decrease and stabilize costs associated with the regulation of the
pawn industry and increase identification of criminal activities in the pawn
industry through the timely collection and sharing of pawn transaction
information, this chapter also implements and establishes the required use of
the Automated Pawn System (APS).
(Prior Code, § 516.01)
§ 115.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCEPTABLE IDENTIFICATION. Acceptable forms of identification are a current
valid Minnesota driver’s license, a current valid Minnesota identification card
or a current valid photo driver’s license or identification card issued by
another state or province of Canada.
   AUTOMATED PAWN SYSTEM (APS). A computerized data collection system that
mandates the collection of data and digitized images via modem for the purpose
of regulation and review of licensed pawn dealers by city officials and
authorized subscribers.
   BILLABLE TRANSACTIONS. Every reportable transaction conducted by a
pawnbroker, except renewals, redemptions or extensions of existing pawns on
items previously reported and continuously in the licensee’s possession.
   CONSIGNMENT. Acting as a sales agent for another, selling another person’s
goods without having to first purchase the goods.
   ISSUING AUTHORITY. The City of Mounds View.
   ITEM CONTAINING PRECIOUS METAL. An item made in whole or in part of metal
and containing more than 1% by weight of silver, gold or platinum.
   MANAGER. A person or persons designated by the licensee to operate and
supervise the pawnshop under the provisions of this chapter.
   MINOR. Any natural person under the age of 18 years.
   PAWNBROKER. A person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending
money on the security of pledged goods left in pawn, or in the business of
purchasing tangible personal property to be left in pawn on the condition that
it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a
fixed period of time. The following are exempt from the definition of
PAWNBROKER: any bank regulated by the state, the comptroller of the currency of
the United States, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the board of
governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other federal or state authority
and their affiliates; any bank or savings and loan whose deposits or accounts
are eligible for insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any
successor to it and all affiliates of those banks and savings and loan
associations; any state- or federally-chartered credit union; any industrial
loan and thrift company or regulated lender subject to licensing and regulation
by the Department of Commerce.
   PAWNSHOP. The licensed location in which a pawnbroker conducts business.
   PERSON. One or more natural persons; a partnership, including a limited
partnership; a corporation, including a foreign, domestic or non-profit
corporation, a trust, a political subdivision of the state; or any other
business organization.
   PRECIOUS METAL DEALER. Except as exempted by M.S. § 325F.732, subd. 2, as it
may be amended from time to time, any natural person, partnership or
corporation engaging in the business of buying, selling or pawning secondhand
items containing precious metal, including, but not limited to, jewelry,
watches, eating utensils, candlesticks and religious and decorative objects.
   PRECIOUS METALS. Silver, gold or platinum.
   REDEMPTION PERIOD. The date by which an item of property that has been
pawned must be redeemed by the pledger without risk that the item will be sold.
The date must be a day on which the pawnbroker or precious metal dealer is open
for regular business.
   REPORTABLE TRANSACTION. Every transaction conducted by a pawnbroker in which
merchandise is received through a pawn or purchase, or in which a pawn is
renewed, extended or for which a unique transaction number or identifier is
generated by their point of sale software, is reportable, except:
      (1)   The bulk purchase of new or used merchandise from a merchant,
manufacturer or wholesaler having an established permanent place of business,
and the retail sale of the merchandise; provided, the pawnbroker must maintain
a record of the purchase which describes each item, and must mark each item in
a manner which relates it to that transaction record; and
      (2)   Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise originally received by
pawn or purchase, and for which all applicable hold and/or redemption periods
have expired.
(Prior Code, § 516.02)
§ 115.003 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall exercise, carry on or be engaged in the trade or business of
pawnbroker within the city unless the person is currently licensed in
accordance with this chapter to be a pawnbroker. Pawnbrokers shall also
maintain and display at all times a current and valid precious metal dealer
license issued by the county.
(Prior Code, § 516.03) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 115.004 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Every application for license under this chapter, whether for a natural
person, partnership, corporation or other organization, shall be made on a form
supplied by the city and shall contain all information as required on that form
by law.
   (A)   All applications for a license under this chapter shall be signed and
sworn to under oath or affirmation by applicant. If the application is that of
a natural person, it shall be signed and sworn to by the person; if that of a
corporation, by an officer thereof; if that of a partnership, by one of the
general partners; and, if that of an unincorporated association, by the manager
or managing officer thereof.
   (B)   Any falsification on a license application shall result in the denial
of a license.
   (C)   No pawnbroker license will be issued, renewed or transferred without a
public hearing conducted by the City Council after a notice has been published
in the official city newspaper at least ten days in advance of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 516.04)
§ 115.005 INVESTIGATION BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Investigation and report. All applications shall be referred to the
Police Department for verification and investigation of the facts set forth in
the application. The Police Department shall make a written report and
recommendation to the City Council as to approval or denial of the license. The
City Council may order and conduct the additional investigation that it deems
necessary.
   (B)   Cost of investigation. An investigation fee shall be collected with
each application for a pawnshop license to cover the expense of any
investigation needed to assure compliance with this chapter. The investigation
fee is per the city’s approved fee schedule. If the investigation and
verification process is conducted outside the state, additional fees may be
required.
   (C)   Application. When a licensee places a manager in charge of the
business, or if the named manager(s) in charge of a licensed business changes,
the licensee must complete and submit the appropriate investigation application
within 14 days. The manager shall be subject to the investigation required
herein and to payment of the investigation fee required by this chapter, which
shall be paid in advance. The designation of a new manager shall not cause the
license to become invalid before a decision is rendered; provided, proper
notice and application are made by the applicant. A proposed new manager shall
be referred to as the interim manager. In the event an interim manager is
rejected, the licensee shall designate another interim manager and make the
required application within 14 days of the decision. If a proposed manager is
rejected, the decision may be appealed to the City Council by filing a written
notice of appeal with the City Administrator within ten days after being
notified of the rejection.
(Prior Code, § 516.05) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 115.006 TERM OF LICENSE AND RENEWALS.
   (A)   Term. Licenses expire annually on December 31. The license fee will be
prorated in 30-day increments for licenses issued after June 30.
   (B)   Renewal. A license under this section will not be renewed if the City
Council determines that the licensee has failed to comply with the provisions
of this chapter in a preceding license year or if there would be sufficient
grounds not to issue a license in the first instance.
(Prior Code, § 516.06)
§ 115.007 LICENSE FEES.
   To defray administrative and other costs of processing applications for
pawnshop licenses, a non-refundable fee shall be paid at the time an
application is filed with the city. The minimum fee shall be per the city’s
approved fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 516.07)
§ 115.008 BILLABLE TRANSACTION FEES.
   Licensees shall pay a monthly transaction fee on all billable transactions.
The minimum fee shall be per the city’s approved fee schedule. The fee shall be
due and payable within 30 days. Failure to timely pay the billable transaction
fee shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 516.08)
§ 115.009 BOND REQUIREMENT.
   At the time of filing an application for a license, the applicant shall file
a bond in the amount of $10,000 with the city. The bond, with a duly licensed
surety company as surety thereon, must be approved as to form by the City
Attorney. The bond must be conditioned on the licensee observing all ordinances
of the city and all laws relating to the business of pawnbroker or precious
metal dealer, and the licensee accounting for and delivering to any person
legally entitled thereto any articles which may have come into the possession
of the licensee as pawnbroker or, in lieu thereof, the licensee paying the
person or persons the reasonable value thereof. The bond shall contain a
provision that it may not be canceled without 30 days’ advance written notice
to the licensing authority.
(Prior Code, § 516.09)
§ 115.010 INELIGIBLE PERSONS AND LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Ineligible persons. No licenses under this chapter shall be issued to
an applicant who is a natural person, general or managing partner, manager,
proprietor or agent if the applicant:
      (1)   Is a minor at the time the application is filed;
      (2)   Has been convicted of any offense related to the occupation
licensed or involving moral turpitude;
      (3)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien;
      (4)   Is not of good moral character or repute;
      (5)   Has misrepresented or falsified information on the license
application;
      (6)   Holds an intoxicating liquor license under this code;
      (7)   Has had a pawnbroker or precious metal dealer license revoked
elsewhere; or
      (8)   Other good and sufficient reason at the sole discretion of the City
Council.
   (B)   Ineligible locations. The following locations shall be ineligible for
licenses under this chapter:
      (1)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any
property on which taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the state,
county, school district or city are due, delinquent or unpaid;
      (2)   No license shall be granted or renewed if the property on which the
business is to be conducted is owned or controlled by a person who is
ineligible for a license;
      (3)   The property is not properly zoned;
      (4)   A location within 1,000 feet of an existing pawnshop; and
      (5)   No license shall be granted for a premises in excess of 5,000
square feet.
   (C)   Multiple brokers or dealers prohibited. No license shall be issued for
multiple pawnbrokers at one location.
(Prior Code, § 516.10)
§ 115.011 GENERAL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Record keeping. All licensees shall utilize the Automated Pawn System
(APS) for the creation, maintenance and storage of transactional records
regarding licensed activities. At the time of a receipt of an item of property,
whether purchased or pawned, the pawnbroker shall immediately record, on
computer disc or if the computer is temporarily unavailable in a book or
journal which has page numbers that are preprinted and in an indelible ink, the
following information:
      (1)   Description of item. An accurate description of the item of
property including, but not limited to, any trademark, identification number,
serial number, model number, brand, brand name or other identifying mark on the
item;
      (2)   Date and time. The date and time the item of property was received
by the licensee, and the unique alpha and/or numeric transaction identifier
that distinguishes it from all other transactions in the licensee’s records.
Transaction identifiers must be assigned consecutively;
      (3)   Description of person. The name, address, residence phone number,
date of birth, and accurate description including: sex, height, weight, race,
color of eyes and color of hair of the person from whom the item of property
was received;
      (4)   Identification number. The identification number and state or
nation of issue from any of the following forms of identification of the person
from whom the item of property was received:
         (a)   A valid driver’s license; and
         (b)   A valid state or national picture identification.
      (5)   Price. The price of the item paid and whether the item was
purchased or pawned;
      (6)   Fees. A list of all fees and charges that the transaction may be
subject to;
      (7)   Statement. A signed statement from the person from whom the item of
property is received that there are no liens on the item, that it is not stolen
and that the person has the right to sell it;
      (8)   Photograph or video recording. The licensee must take a color
photograph or color video recording of each customer involved in a billable
transaction. The licensee must also take a color photograph or color video
recording of every item pawned or sold that does not have a unique serial or
identification number permanently engraved or affixed.
         (a)   Photo provisions. The photograph taken must be at least two
inches in length by two inches in width and must be maintained in such a manner
that the photograph can be readily matched and correlated with all other
records of the transaction to which they relate. The photographs must be
available to the Chief of Police, or the Chief’s designee, upon request. The
major portion of the photograph must include an identifiable front facial close
up of the person who pawned or sold the item. Items photographed must be
accurately depicted. The licensee must inform the person that they are being
photographed by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous place on
the premises.
         (b)   Video provisions. If a video photograph is taken, the video
camera must zoom in on the person pawning or selling the item so as to include
an identifiable close up of that person’s face. Items photographed by video
must be accurately depicted. Video photographs must be electronically
referenced by time and date so they can be readily matched and correlated with
all other records of the transaction to which they relate. The licensee shall
display a sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous place on the premises
informing patrons that all transactions are video-recorded. The licensee must
keep the exposed videotape for four months, and furnish it to the Police
Department upon request.
         (c)   Digitized photographs. Digital images shall be provided in a
format specified by the issuing authority, electronically cross referenced to
the reportable transaction with which they are associated.
      (9)   Renewals, extensions and redemptions. For renewals, extensions and
redemptions, the licensee shall provide the original transaction identifier,
the date of the current transaction, the type of transaction, interest charges
accrued and any amount paid for the transaction or the article. When an article
of purchased or forfeited property is sold or disposed of by a licensee the
records shall contain an account of the sale with the date, the amount for
which the article was sold, and the full name, current address and telephone
number of the person to whom sold.
   (B)   Inspection of records. The pawnbroker shall make available the
information required in division (A) above at all reasonable times for
inspection by the Police Department or other representatives of the licensing
authority.
   (C)   Retention of records. The pawnbroker shall retain the information
required in this section for at least five years.
   (D)   Daily reports to police are required. The pawnbroker shall submit
daily to the Police Department all information required by this section
regarding every reportable transaction by transferring it from their computer
to the Automated Pawn System. All required records must be transmitted
completely and accurately after the close of business each day in accordance
with standards and procedures established by the issuing authority using
procedures that address security concerns of the licensees and the issuing
authority. The licensee must display a sign of sufficient size, in a
conspicuous place in the premises, which informs all patrons that all
transactions are reported to the Police Department daily.
   (E)   Data transfer failures.
      (1)   If a licensee is unable to successfully transfer the required
reports by electronic means, the licensee must provide the Police Department
printed copies of all reportable transactions along with the videotape(s) for
that date, by 12:00 noon the next business day;
      (2)   If the problem is determined to be in the licensee’s system and is
not corrected by the close of the first business day following the failure, the
licensee must provide the required reports and shall be charged per fee
schedule a reporting failure penalty, daily, until the error is corrected;
      (3)   If the problem is determined to be outside the licensee’s system,
the licensee must provide the required reports and resubmit all such
transaction electronically when the error is corrected;
      (4)   If a licensee is unable to capture, digitize or transmit digital
photographs required by this chapter, the licensee must immediately take all
required photographs with a still camera, cross-reference the photographs to
the correct transaction, and make the pictures available to the Police
Department upon request;
      (5)   Regardless of the cause or origin of the technical problems that
prevented the licensee from uploading their reportable transactions, upon
correction of the problem, the licensee shall upload every reportable
transaction from every business day the problem had existed; and
      (6)   The Police Department may, at their discretion, upon presentation
of extenuating circumstances by the licensee, delay the implementation of the
daily reporting penalty imposed by this section.
   (F)   Police order to hold property. Whenever the Police Department notifies
the pawnbroker not to sell an item, the item shall not be sold or removed from
the licensed premises until authorized to be released by the Police Department.
   (G)   Holding period of pawnbrokers.
      (1)   Any item pawned to a pawnbroker for which a report to the police is
required under this chapter shall not be sold or otherwise transferred for 90
days after the date of the pawn. However, an individual may redeem an item
pawned 72 hours after the item was received on deposit by the pawnbroker,
excluding Sundays and legal holidays.
      (2)   Any item sold outright to a pawnbroker for which a report to the
police is required under this chapter shall not be sold or otherwise
transferred for 30 days after the date of the initial purchase.
   (H)   Receipt. The pawnbroker shall provide a receipt to the seller or
pledger of any item of property received, which shall include:
      (1)   The name, address and phone number of the pawnbroker or precious
metal dealer business;
      (2)   The date on which the pawnbroker or precious metal dealer received
the item;
      (3)   A description of the item received and amount paid to the pledger
or seller in exchange for the item pawned or sold;
      (4)   The signature of the pawnbroker or precious metal dealer or agent;
      (5)   The last regular business day by which the item must be redeemed by
the pledger without risk that the item will be sold and the amount necessary to
redeem the pawned item on that date;
      (6)   The annual rate of interest charged on pawned items received; and
      (7)   The name, address and signature of the seller or pledger.
   (I)   Hours of operation. No pawnbroker shall be open for the transaction of
business on any day of the week before 8:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m.
   (J)   Minors. The pawnbroker shall not purchase or receive personal property
of any nature on deposit or pledge from any minor.
   (K)   Inspection of items. The pawnbroker shall at all times during the term
of the license allow the Police Department to enter the premises where the
pawnbroker business is located, for the purpose of inspecting the premises and
inspecting the items, wares and merchandise therein for the purpose of locating
items suspected or alleged to have been stolen or otherwise improperly disposed
of.
   (L)   License display. A license issued under this chapter must be posted in
a conspicuous place in the premises for which it is used. The license issued is
only effective for the compact and contiguous space specified in the approved
license application. Any additional required county and state licenses shall be
similarly posted.
   (M)   Maintenance of order. A licensee under this chapter shall be
responsible for the conduct of the business being operated and shall maintain
conditions of order.
   (N)   Prohibited goods. No licensee under this chapter shall accept any item
of property which contains an altered or obliterated serial number or
“operation identification” number or any item of property whose serial number
has been removed.
   (O)   Payment by check.
      (1)   Payment of more than $250 by a licensee for any article deposited,
left, purchased, pledged or pawned shall be made only by a check, draft or
other negotiable or nonnegotiable instrument that is drawn against funds held
by a financial institution.
      (2)   This policy shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises.
   (P)   Storage. All items shall be stored within the licensed premises.
   (Q)   Prohibited items. Licensee shall not accept for pawn or purchase or
offer for sale firearms or handguns.
   (R)   Signage.
      (1)   Licensees shall by adequate signage and separate written notice
inform persons seeking to pawn, pledge, sell, leave or deposit articles of
property with the licensee of the foregoing requirements:
 
TO PAWN OR SELL PROPERTY:
 
•   YOU MUST BE AT LEAST EIGHTEEN (18) YEARS OF AGE
•   YOU MUST BE THE TRUE OWNER OF THE PROPERTY
•   THE PROPERTY MUST BE FREE OF ALL CLAIMS AND LIENS
•   YOU MUST PRESENT VALID PHOTO IDENTIFICATION
•   VIOLATION OF ANY OF THESE REQUIREMENTS IS A CRIME.
 
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (R), ADEQUATE SIGNAGE shall mean
at least one sign of not less than four square feet in surface area, comprised
of lettering of not less than three-quarters of an inch in height, posted in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
   (S)   Disposition of articles. When any article is sold or disposed of by
the licensee, the records shall contain an account of the sale with the date
thereof, interest and charges accrued, the amount for which the article was
sold and, in the case of items sold for more than $100, the name, address and
telephone number of the purchaser.
   (T)   Managers. In the event the licensee places a manager or managers in
charge of the operation (subject to the requirements of §
115.004 of this chapter), the manager or managers shall work on average a
minimum of 80 hours per month during a six-month time period.
(Prior Code, § 516.11) (Ord. 951, passed 09-24-2018) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 115.012 ALARM SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   An alarm system, professionally installed and approved by the Police Chief
shall be installed at the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 516.12)
§ 115.013 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Violation. The City Council may suspend or revoke a license issued
under this chapter upon a finding of a violation of:
      (1)   Any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Any state statute regulating pawnbrokers or precious metal dealers;
and
      (3)   Any state or local law relating to moral character and repute. Any
conviction by the pawnbroker or precious metal dealer for theft, receiving
stolen property or any other crime or violation involving stolen property shall
result in the immediate suspension pending a hearing on revocation of any
license issued hereunder.
   (B)   Notice; hearing. Except in the case of a suspension pending a hearing
on revocation, a revocation or suspension by the City Council shall be preceded
by written notice to the licensee and a public hearing. The written notice
shall give at least ten days’ notice of the time and place of the hearing and
shall state the nature of the charges against the pawnbroker or precious metal
dealer. The Council may, without any notice, suspend any license pending a
hearing on revocation for a period not exceeding 30 days. The notice may be
served upon the pawnbroker by United States mail addressed to the most recent
address of the business in the license application.
(Prior Code, § 516.13)
§ 115.014 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No pawnbroker licensed upon this chapter shall:
   (A)   Lend money on a pledge at a rate of interest above that allowed by
law;
   (B)   Possess stolen goods;
   (C)   Sell pledged goods before the time to redeem has expired;
   (D)   Make a loan on a pledge to a minor or purchase property from a minor;
   (E)   Accept consignments or sell consigned goods or items; and/or
   (F)   Keep, possess or operate, or permit the keeping, possession or
operation on the licensed premises of dice, slot machines, roulette wheels,
punchboards, blackjack tables or pinball machines which return coins or slugs,
chips or tokens of any kind, which are redeemable in merchandise or cash.
Gambling of any kind, except as noted herein, is prohibited. No gambling
equipment authorized under M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to
time, may be kept or operated and no raffles may be conducted on the licensed
premises and/or adjoining rooms. The purchase of lottery tickets may take place
on the licensed premises as authorized by the director of the lottery pursuant
to M.S. Ch. 349A, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 516.14) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 115.015 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   M.S. Ch. 325J, as it may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by
reference. Wherever this chapter is more restrictive than the statutes, this
chapter will control. Wherever the statutes are more restrictive than this
chapter, the statutes shall control.
(Prior Code, § 516.15)
CHAPTER 116: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
Adult Establishments
   
116.001   Findings and purpose
   
116.002   Definitions
   
116.003   Location
   
116.004   Hours of operation
   
116.005   Additional conditions for adult cabarets
   
116.006   License required
Premises Conducive to High-Risk Sexual Contact
   
116.020   Purpose
   
116.021   Findings of the City Council
   
116.022   Definitions
   
116.023   Public health regulations
   
116.024   Exceptions
   
116.025   Health enforcement powers
 
   
116.999   Penalty
ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 116.001 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Findings. Studies conducted by the Minnesota Attorney General, the
American Planning Association and cities such as St. Paul, Minnesota;
Indianapolis, Indiana; Alexandria, Minnesota; Rochester, Minnesota; Phoenix,
Arizona; Los Angeles, California; Seattle, Washington; St. Croix County,
Wisconsin; have studied the impacts that adult establishments have in those
communities. These studies have concluded that adult establishments have
adverse impact on the surrounding neighborhoods. Those impacts include
increased crime rates, lower property values, increased transiency,
neighborhood blight and potential health risks. Based on these studies and
findings, the City Council concludes:
      (1)   Adult establishments have adverse secondary impacts of the types
set forth above;
      (2)   The adverse impacts caused by adult establishments tend to diminish
if adult establishments are governed by locational requirements, licensing
requirements and health requirements;
      (3)   It is not the intent of the City Council to prohibit adult
establishments from having a reasonable opportunity to locate in the city;
      (4)   M.S. § 462.357, as it may be amended from time to time, allows the
city to adopt regulations to promote the public health, safety, morals and
general welfare;
      (5)   The public health, safety, morals and general welfare will be
promoted by the city adopting regulations governing adult establishments;
      (6)   Adult establishments can contribute to an increase in criminal
activity in the area in which the businesses are located, taxing city crime-
prevention programs and law enforcement services;
      (7)   Adult establishments can be used as fronts for prostitution and
other criminal activity. The experience of other cities indicates that the
proper management and operation of the businesses can, however, minimize this
risk; provided, the owners and operators of the facilities are regulated by
licensing or other procedures;
      (8)   Adult establishments can increase the risk of exposure to
communicable diseases including, but not limited to, Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndrome (AIDS) for which currently there is no cure. Experiences of other
cities indicate that the businesses can facilitate the spread of communicable
diseases by virtue of the design and use of the premises, thereby endangering
not only the patrons of the establishments, but also the general public;
      (9)   Adult establishments can cause or contribute to public health
problems by the presence of live adult entertainment in conjunction with food
and/or drink on the same premises; and
      (10)   The risk of criminal activity and/or public health problems can be
minimized through a licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed herein.
   (B)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to regulate adult
establishments to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to:
      (1)   Prevent additional criminal activity within the city;
      (2)   Prevent deterioration of neighborhoods and its consequent adverse
effect on real estate values of properties within the neighborhood;
      (3)   Locate adult establishments away from residential areas, schools,
churches, libraries, parks and playgrounds; and
      (4)   Prevent concentration of adult establishments within certain areas
of the city.
   (C)   Content-neutral regulation. The provisions of this subchapter have
neither the purpose, nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content of any communicative materials, including adult-oriented materials.
Similarly, it is neither the intent, nor effect, of this subchapter to restrict
or deny access by adults to adult-oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment or to deny access by distributors and exhibitors of adult-oriented
entertainment to their intended market.
(Prior Code, § 513.01) (Ord. 734, passed 04-26-2004)
§ 116.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. A business engaged in any of the following activities
or which utilizes any of the following business procedures or practices:
      (1)   Any business that has:
         (a)   At least 30% of its inventory, stock and trade or publicly
displayed merchandise; or
         (b)   At least 30% of the floor area of the business (not including
storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements or any portion of the business
not open to the public) devoted to items, merchandise or other materials
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on material depicting, exposing,
describing, discussing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (2)   Any ADULT USE, as defined herein.
   ADULT USE. An adult use is any of the activities and businesses described
below.
      (1)   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business that
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or non-transparent, to the body of a patron when the person is nude.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment or business used for the barter,
rental or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audio tape, videotape or motion picture film if:
         (a)   At least 30% of the inventory, stock and trade or publicly
displayed merchandise; or
         (b)   At least 30% of the floor area of the business (not including
storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements or any portion of the business
not open to the public) is devoted to items, merchandise or other material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A business or establishment that provides dancing or
other live entertainment to patrons if the dancing and live entertainment is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction of matter that seeks to evoke, arouse or excite the patrons’ sexual
or erotic feelings or desire.
      (4)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A business or establishment that
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion between an employee of the establishment and a customer, if the
service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (5)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A business or establishment that
provides the services of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion, if the service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (6)   ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club that is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (7)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel that presents material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (8)   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
that provides the services of massage, if the service is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (9)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business or establishment with
a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material if the
material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      (10)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. A business or establishment that provides
customers figure models who are so provided with the intent of providing sexual
stimulation or sexual gratification to the customers and who engage in
specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas while being
observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured, photographed or
otherwise depicted by the customers.
      (11)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      (12)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A motion picture theater with a
capacity of 50 or more persons that as a prevailing practice presents material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
      (13)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business that has:
         (a)   At least 30% of its inventory, stock and trade or publicly
displayed merchandise; or
         (b)   At least 30% of the floor area of the business (not including,
storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basement or any portion of the business not
open to the public) devoted to items, merchandise or other material or devices
which stimulate human genitals or devices which are designed for sexual
stimulation.
      (14)   ADULT SAUNA. A sauna that provides a steam bath or heat bathing
room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam
or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided
by the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (15)   ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATH- HOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   NUDE OR SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexually-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus; buggery; coprophagy; coprophilia; cunnilingus; fellatio;
necrophilia; pederasty; pedophilia; piquerism; sapphism; zooerastia;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus
or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks
or female breast(s);
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such persons;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
(Prior Code, § 513.02) (Ord. 734, passed 04-26-2004)
§ 116.003 LOCATION.
   (A)   Permitted use. Adult establishments are permitted uses in the B-
2 Limited Business District, the B-3 Highway Business District, the B-
4 Regional Business District, the I-1 Industrial District and the Planned Unit
Development District.
   (B)   Restrictions on location. No adult establishment may be located within
500 feet of a residential zoning district, a school, a church, a library, a
park or a commercial day care center or within 500 feet of another adult
establishment. Distances shall be measured from the nearest point of the
building where the adult establishment is located to the nearest boundary of
the residential zoning district or of the property containing a park, school,
church, library, commercial day care center or other adult establishment.
(Prior Code, § 513.03) (Ord. 734, passed 04-26-2004) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.004 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No adult establishment may be open to the public between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 10:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 513.04) (Ord. 734, passed 04-26-2004) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.005 ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS FOR ADULT CABARETS.
   The following additional conditions apply to adult cabarets.
   (A)   No owner, operator or manager of an adult cabaret shall permit or
allow any dancer or other live entertainer to perform nude.
   (B)   No dancer, live entertainer, performer, patron or any other person
shall be nude in an adult cabaret.
   (C)   No dancer, live entertainer or performer shall be under 18 years old.
   (D)   All dancing or live entertainment shall occur on a platform intended
for that purpose and which is raised at least two feet from the level of the
floor.
   (E)   No dancer or performer shall perform any dance or live entertainment
closer than six feet to any patron.
   (F)   No dancer or performer shall fondle or caress any patron and no patron
shall fondle or caress any dancer or performer.
   (G)   No patron shall pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or performer.
   (H)   No dancer or performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any
patron.
(Prior Code, § 513.05) (Ord. 734, passed 04-26-2004) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.006 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   License required. No person shall own or operate an adult
establishment without having first secured a license as provided for in this
section.
   (B)   Application. The application for an adult establishment license shall
be submitted on a form provided by the city and shall include:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, residence, phone
number and birth date of the applicant. If the applicant is a partnership, the
name, residence, phone number and birth date of each general and limited
partner. If the applicant is a corporation, the names, residences, phone
numbers and birth dates of all officers and directors of the corporation;
      (2)   The name, address, phone number and birth date of the operator and
manager of the operation, if different from the owners;
      (3)   The address and legal description of the premises where the adult
establishment is to be located;
      (4)   A statement detailing any gross misdemeanor or felony convictions
relating to sex offenses, obscenity or the operation of an adult establishment
or adult business by the applicant, operator or manager and whether or not the
applicant, operator or manager has ever applied for or held a license to
operate a similar type of business in other communities. In the case of a
corporation, a statement detailing any felony convictions of the officers and
directors of the corporation, and whether or not those officers and directors
have ever applied for or held a license to operate a similar type of business
in other communities;
      (5)   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
      (6)   The hours of operation;
      (7)   The provisions made to restrict access by minors; and
      (8)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations
and activities.
   (C)   License fee.
      (1)   The annual license fee shall be as set forth in the city’s fee
schedule.
      (2)   Each application for a license shall be submitted to the City
Administrator and payment made to the city. Each application for a license
shall be accompanied by payment in full of the required license fee. Upon
rejection of any application for a license, the city shall refund the license
fee.
      (3)    All licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year. Each
license shall be issued for a period of one year; except that, if a portion of
the license year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be
issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rated fee. In computing the fee,
any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one month.
      (4)   No part of the fee paid by any license shall be refunded; except
that, a pro rata portion of the fee shall be refunded in the following
instances upon application to the City Administrator within 30 days from the
happening of the event; provided that, the event occurs more than 30 days
before the expiration of the license:
         (a)   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
         (b)   The licensee’s illness;
         (c)   The licensee’s death; and
         (d)   A change in the legal status making it unlawful for the licensed
business to continue.
      (5)   Each application shall contain a provision on the application in
bold print indicating that any withholding of information or the providing of
false or misleading information will be grounds for denial or revocation of a
license. Any changes in the information provided on the application or provided
during the investigation shall be brought to the attention of the City Council
by the application or licensee. If the changes take place during the
investigation, the data shall be provided to the Police Chief in writing and
they shall report the changes to the City Council. Failure to report the
changes by the applicant(s) or the licensee may result in a denial or
revocation of a license.
   (D)   Investigative fee. The investigative fee for an adult establishment
license shall be determined per the city’s fee schedule.
   (E)   Granting of license.
      (1)   The Police Chief or other designated person shall complete the
investigation within 30 days after the City Administrator receives a complete
application and all license and investigative fees.
      (2)   If the application is for a renewal, the applicant shall be allowed
to continue business until the Council has determined to renew or refuse to
renew a license.
      (3)   If, after the investigation, it appears that the applicant and the
place proposed for the business are eligible for a license under the criteria
set forth in this section, then the license shall be issued by the City Council
within 30 days after the investigation is completed. Otherwise, the license
shall be denied.
      (4)   Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and shall not be
transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only for the
premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to another
premise without the approval of the City Council. If the licensee is a
partnership or a corporation, a change in the identity of any of the principals
of the partnership or corporation shall be deemed a transfer of the license.
All adult establishments existing at the time of the adoption of this section
shall be required to obtain an annual license.
   (F)   Persons ineligible for license. No license shall be granted to or held
by any person:
      (1)   Under 21 years of age;
      (2)   Who is overdue in payments to the city, county or state of taxes,
fees, fines or penalties assessed against them or imposed upon them;
      (3)   Who has been convicted of a gross misdemeanor or felony, if the
conviction relates to sex offenses, obscenity offenses or adult establishments;
      (4)   Who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the
license is to be issued;
      (5)   Who has been denied a license by the city or any other state
municipal corporation to operate an adult establishment, or the license has
been suspended or revoked within the preceding 12 months; and
      (6)   Who has not paid the license and investigative fees required by
this section.
   (G)   Places ineligible for license. No license shall be granted to:
      (1)   Any adult establishment which is not in full compliance with the
city code, the city’s zoning ordinance, the Building Code, the Fire Code, the
city’s health regulations and all provisions of state and federal law; or
      (2)   Any establishment that holds an intoxicating liquor, beer or wine
license.
   (H)   Conditions of license.
      (1)   Every license shall be granted subject to the following conditions
and all other provisions of this section, and of any applicable sections of the
city code, the city’s zoning ordinance, the Building Code, the Fire Code, the
city’s health regulations and all provisions of state and federal law.
      (2)   All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a
conspicuous place at all times.
      (3)   No minor shall be permitted on the licensed premises.
      (4)   Any designated inspection officer of the city shall have the right
to enter, inspect and search the premises of a licensee during business hours.
      (5)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of licensee’s
place of business and shall maintain conditions of order.
      (6)   No adult goods or material services shall be offered, sold,
transferred, conveyed, given, displayed or bartered to any minor.
      (7)   No merchandise or pictures of the products or entertainment sold or
conducted on the premises may be displayed in the window areas or in any area
where they can be viewed from a sidewalk in front of the building.
      (8)   The window areas may not be covered or made opaque in any way. No
sign may be placed in any window. A one square foot sign may be placed on the
door of the business to state the hours of operation and that admittance is to
adults only.
   (I)   Right of appeal.
      (1)   In the event that the Council determines to suspend, or revoke a
license, such suspension or revocation shall not be effective until 15 days
after notification of the decision to the licensee. If, within that 15 days,
the licensee files and serves an action in state or federal court challenging
the Council’s action, then the suspension or revocation shall be stayed until
the conclusion of the action.
      (2)   If the City Council determines not to renew a license, the licensee
may continue its business for 15 days after receiving notice of the non-
renewal. If the licensee files and serves an action in state or federal court
within that 15 days for the purpose of determining whether the city acted
properly, the licensee may continue in business until the conclusion of the
action.
      (3)   If the City Council decides not to grant a license to an applicant,
then the applicant may commence an action in state or federal court within 15
days for the purpose of determining whether the city acted properly. The
applicant shall not commence doing business unless the action is concluded in
its favor.
(Prior Code, § 513.06) (Ord. 574, passed 05-13-1996; Ord. 734, passed 04-26-
2004; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 981, passed 11-08-2021)  Penalty, see §
116.999
PREMISES CONDUCIVE TO HIGH-RISK SEXUAL CONTACT
§ 116.020 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prescribe regulations governing
commercial premises, buildings and structures that are conducive, by virtue of
design and use, to high-risk sexual conduct which can result in the spread of
sexually transmitted diseases to persons frequenting the premises, buildings
and structures.
(Prior Code, § 608.01)
§ 116.021 FINDINGS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council makes the following findings regarding the need to regulate
commercial premises, buildings and structures that are conducive to the spread
of communicable disease of danger to persons in order to further the
substantial interest of public health:
   (A)   The experience of other cities establishes that certain commercial
premises, buildings and structures, or parts thereof, by reason of the design
and use of the premises, buildings or structures are conducive to the spread of
communicable disease of danger to persons frequenting the premises, buildings
or structures, as well as to the general public, and that the risk of spreading
infectious and contagious diseases can be minimized by regulating the
commercial premises, buildings and structures.
   (B)   The experience of other cities where such commercial premises,
buildings and structures are present indicates that the risk of spreading the
sexually transmittable disease of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) is
increased by the presence of the premises, buildings and structures, because
the design or use of the premises, buildings and structures, or parts thereof
can facilitate high-risk sexual conduct.
   (C)   Medical publications of the Centers for Disease Control of the United
States Department of Health and Human Services indicate that the sexually
transmittable disease of AIDS is currently irreversible and uniformly fatal.
Medical research has further established that the risk factors for obtaining or
spreading AIDS are associated with high-risk sexual conduct.
(Prior Code, § 608.02)
§ 116.022 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOOTHS, STALLS or PARTITIONED PORTIONS OF A ROOM OR INDIVIDUAL ROOM. 
      (1)   (a)   Enclosures specifically offered to persons for a fee or as an
incident to performing high-risk sexual conduct; or
         (b)   Enclosures which are part of a business operated on the premises
which offers movies or other entertainment to be viewed within the enclosure,
including enclosures wherein movies or other entertainment is dispensed for a
fee.
      (2)   The phrase BOOTHS, STALLS or PARTITIONED PORTIONS OF A ROOM OR
INDIVIDUAL ROOM does not mean enclosures which are private offices used by the
owners, managers or persons employed by the premises for attending to the tasks
of their employment, and which are not held out to the public or members of the
establishment for hire or for a fee or for the purpose of viewing movies or
other entertainment for a fee, and are not open to any persons other than
employees.
   DOORS, CURTAINS or PORTAL PARTITIONS. Full, complete, non-transparent
closure devices through which one cannot see or view activity taking place
within the enclosure.
   HAZARDOUS SITE. Any commercial premises, building or structure, or any part
thereof, which is a site of high-risk sexual conduct, as defined herein.
   HIGH-RISK SEXUAL CONDUCT.
      (1)   Fellatio;
      (2)   Anal intercourse; and/or
      (3)   Vaginal intercourse with persons who engage in sexual acts in
exchange for money.
   OPEN TO AN ADJACENT PUBLIC ROOM SO THAT THE AREA INSIDE IS VISIBLE TO
PERSONS IN THE ADJACENT PUBLIC ROOM. Either the absence of any entire door,
curtain or portal partition or a door or other device which is made of clear,
transparent material such as glass, plexiglass or other similar material
meeting Building Code and safety standards, which permits the activity inside
the enclosure to be entirely viewed or seen by persons outside the enclosure.
   PUBLIC HEALTH OFFICIAL. An agent or employee of the city charged with the
enforcement of the state or local health laws.
(Prior Code, § 608.03)
§ 116.023 PUBLIC HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No commercial building, structure, premises or part thereof, or
facilities therein shall be so constructed, used, designed or operated in the
city for the purpose of engaging in, or permitting persons to engage in, sexual
activities which include high-risk sexual conduct.
   (B)   No person shall own, operate, manage, rent, lease or exercise control
of any commercial building, structure, premises or portion or part thereof in
the city, which contains:
      (1)   Partitions between subdivisions of a room, portion or part of a
building, structure or premises having an aperture which is designed or
constructed to facilitate sexual activity, including but not limited to vaginal
intercourse, anal intercourse, or fellatio, between persons on either side of
the partition; and
      (2)   Booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room or individual
room, as defined herein, which have doors, curtains or portal partitions, as
defined herein, unless the booths, stalls, partitioned portions of a room or
individual room have at least one side open to an adjacent public room so that
the area inside is visible to persons in the adjacent public room, as defined
herein. Booths, stalls and/or partitioned portions of a room or individual room
that are so open to an adjacent public room shall be lighted in a manner that
the persons in the area used for viewing motion pictures or other forms of
entertainment are visible from the adjacent public rooms, but the lighting
shall not be of an intensity as to prevent the viewing of the motion pictures
or other offered entertainment.
(Prior Code, § 608.04)
§ 116.024 EXCEPTIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter shall not apply to premises,
buildings or structures that are lawfully operating and licensed as hotels,
motels, apartment complexes, condominiums, townhomes or boarding houses which
are subject to other general health and sanitation requirements under state and
local law.
(Prior Code, § 608.05)
§ 116.025 HEALTH ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   In exercising powers conferred by this chapter or any other section of
this code relating to communicable diseases, the public health official shall
be guided by the most recent instructions, opinions and guidelines of the
Centers for Disease Control of the United States, Department of Health and
Human Services, which relate to the spread of infectious diseases.
   (B)   In order to ascertain the source of infection and reduce its spread,
the public health official, and persons under the public health official’s
direction and control, shall have full power and authority to inspect or cause
to be inspected, and to issue orders regarding any commercial building,
structure or premises, or any part thereof, which may be a site of high-risk
sexual conduct. If the public health official determines that a hazardous site
as defined herein exists, the public health official shall declare it to be a
public health hazard and public health nuisance and shall then:
      (1)   Notify the manager, owner or tenant of the hazardous site that the
public health official has reasonable belief that the premises, building or
structure is a hazardous site, as defined herein;
      (2)   Issue two written warnings at least ten days apart to the manager,
owner or tenant of the premises stating the specific reasons for the public
health official’s opinion that the premises, building, or structure is a
hazardous site, as defined herein; and
      (3)   Once the notices and warnings have been issued, the public health
official or the public health official’s appointee shall proceed as follows:
         (a)   After the manager, owner or tenant of the premises has been
notified in writing as to the basis of the public health official’s
determination, the manager, owner or tenant shall have ten days from the date
of the last warning to request a hearing before the public health official or
the public health official’s appointee for the determination as to the
existence of such hazardous site. If the manager, owner or tenant of the
premises does not request a hearing within ten days of the date of the last
warning notice, the public health official shall then cause the premises to be
posted with a warning advising the public that the premises have been declared
a hazardous site and the public health official shall cause orders to be issued
to the manager, owner or tenant of the premises constituting the hazardous site
to take specified corrective measures to prevent high-risk sexual conduct from
taking place within the premises.
         (b)   If the manager, owner, or tenant of the premises requests a
hearing, the hearing shall be held before the public health official or the
public health official’s appointee at a date not more than 30 days after demand
for a hearing. After considering all evidence, the public health official or
the public health official’s appointee shall make a determination as to whether
the premises constitute a hazardous site, as defined herein, and issue a
decision based upon all hearing evidence presented. If the public health
official or the public health official’s appointee makes a determination that
the premises constitute a hazardous site, the public health official shall then
issue orders to the manager, owner or tenant of the premises to take corrective
measures to prevent high-risk sexual conduct from taking place within the
premises and cause the premises to be posted with a warning advising the public
that the premises have been declared a hazardous site.
         (c)   If, within 30 days from issuance of the orders to the manager,
owner or tenant of the hazardous site, the public health official determines
that the corrective measures have not been undertaken, the public health
official may order the abatement of the hazardous site as a public nuisance,
which shall be enforced by mandatory or prohibitory injunction in a court of
competent jurisdiction, or may secure a court order for the closure of the
premises constituting the hazardous site until the premises, building, or
structure is in compliance with the regulations set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 608.06)
§ 116.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
116.001 through
116.006 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
punished not more than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by
state law.
      (2)   Any violation of §§
116.001 through
116.006 of this chapter shall be a basis for the suspension or revocation of
any license granted hereunder. In the event that the City Council proposes to
revoke or suspend the license, the licensee shall be notified in writing of the
basis for the proposed revocation or suspension and the date the hearing
whereby the Council will address the proposal. The Council shall hold a hearing
for the purpose of determining whether to revoke or suspend the license, which
hearing shall be within 30 days of the date of the notice.
      (3)   The City Council shall determine whether to suspend or revoke a
license within 30 days after the close of the hearing and shall notify the
licensee of its decision within that period. The licensee may continue to
operate until the City Council makes its final decision whether to suspend or
revoke the license.
(Prior Code, § 513.06)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
116.020 through
116.025 of this chapter or any person who removes, destroys or defaces warnings
posted on premises by the public health official pursuant to §§
116.020 through
116.025 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 608.07) (Ord. 574, passed 05-13-1996; Ord. 734, passed 04-26-
2004; Ord. 951, passed 09-24-2018)
CHAPTER 117: CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITES
Section
   
117.001   Findings and purpose
   
117.002   Definitions
   
117.003   Public nuisance
   
117.004   Notice to other authorities
   
117.005   Notice to concerned parties
   
117.006   Issuance of abatement order
   
117.007   Responsibilities of owner
   
117.008   City authority to initiate cleanup
   
117.009   Owner’s responsibility for costs
   
117.010   Recovery of city costs
   
117.011   Removal of public nuisance designation
 
   
117.999   Penalty
§ 117.001 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that the existence of clandestine drug lab sites and
chemical dump sites in the city pose a serious health and safety threat to
members of the public, the sites may contain hazardous chemicals, substances or
residues that place people, particularly minors and adults of child-bearing
age, at risk of exposure through inhabiting or visiting the site. The Council
has, therefore, determined that the regulation and proper removal of those
sites is necessary for the protection of the public health, safety and general
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 609.01)
§ 117.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHEMICAL DUMP SITE. Any place or location where chemicals and/or other
hazardous waste material used in a clandestine drug lab have been deposited.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB. The unlawful manufacture or attempt to manufacture
controlled substances.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE. Any place or location where conditions associated
with the operation of a clandestine drug lab are found to exist and may include
dwellings, accessory buildings or structures, motorized or non-motorized
vehicles or any parcels of land.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug, chemical, substance or immediate precursor
thereto as defined by M.S. § 152.02, Schedules I through V, as they may be
amended from time to time, but does not include distilled spirits, wine, malt
beverages, intoxicating liquors or tobacco.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Building Official, Housing Inspector or an
authorized representative or designee.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any chemicals or other substances used in the manufacture
of controlled substances in a clandestine drug lab and the resulting by-
products there from which pose a risk to the health, safety and welfare of
occupants, visitors or neighbors of the site.
   MANUFACTURE. The production, cultivation, quality control and
standardization, in locations other than a pharmacy, of controlled substances
by mechanical, physical, chemical or pharmaceutical means, and the packing,
repacking, tablet producing, encapsulating, labeling, relabeling, filling or
other similar process relating to such substances.
   MDH. The Minnesota Department of Health.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   OWNER. Any person, firm partnership, company, corporation or other entity
that owns or has title to in full or in part of, the land, buildings,
structures or other property associated with a clandestine drug lab site or a
chemical dump site.   
   SITE. Any defined location, including buildings, structures or other
property, where appropriate tests have determined that, due to the existence of
a clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site, a risk to the health, safety
and welfare exists for any persons who occupy, visit or neighbor on the
location.
(Prior Code, § 609.02)
§ 117.003 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Existence and maintenance of a clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump
site in the city constitutes a public nuisance subject to the regulations of
this chapter in addition to any and all applicable federal, state or local laws
and ordinances. No person may occupy, enter or allow occupancy or entrance to
property under this section until the declaration is vacated or modified to
allow occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 609.03) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.004 NOTICE TO OTHER AUTHORITIES.
   Law enforcement agencies that identified conditions associated with a
clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site which place neighbors, visiting
public or present and future occupants of the site at risk for exposure to
harmful chemicals or other contaminants must promptly notify the city’s Chief
of Police. The Chief of Police will promptly notify the enforcement officer,
appropriate child protection agencies and the appropriate health authorities.
The notice must, at a minimum, identify the location of the site, the site
owner, if known, and the conditions found on the site.
(Prior Code, § 609.04)
§ 117.005 NOTICE TO CONCERNED PARTIES.
   (A)   Upon notification by law enforcement authorities, the enforcement
officer will promptly notify the following parties by U.S. mail:
      (1)   The owner of the property, if known; and
      (2)   Occupants of the property.
   (B)   The enforcement officer will attempt to notify the additional
following parties:
      (1)   Any neighbors that have been determined to be at risk; and
      (2)   Other appropriate state and local authorities including, but not
limited to, the MDH and the MPCA, which are known to have applicable public and
environmental protection responsibilities.
   (C)   The notice must, at a minimum, include the location of the site, the
name of the property owner, if known, the type and nature of the contamination,
and the extent of the contamination.
   (D)   The enforcement officer must also cause a copy of the notice to be
posted at each appropriate access point to the site.
   (E)   Removal of the posted notice by anyone other than the enforcement
officer, law enforcement authorities or their designees is prohibited.
   (F)   Any multiple dwelling license or business license issued by the city
will be immediately suspended upon issuance of the notice and will only be
reinstated after full compliance with an abatement order.
(Prior Code, § 609.05)
§ 117.006 ISSUANCE OF ABATEMENT ORDER.
   (A)   In addition to the required notices, the enforcement officer will
issue an abatement order to the owner to abate the public nuisance. The order
must be properly served and include at a minimum the following:
      (1)   A description of the site and all portions thereof that are
determined to be contaminated. The description may be in any form that readily
identifies the contaminated portion of the site;
      (2)   All portions of the site that are determined to be contaminated and
at risk to occupants or visitors are immediately vacated;
      (3)   The owner commence and complete all testing and cleanup procedures
and other required remedial actions on the site by dates specified in the order
or such other dates agreed to by the city;
      (4)   The site may not be re-occupied or used in any manner until it has
been completely cleaned in accordance with the guidelines established by the
MDH;
      (5)   If the owner does not commence testing and complete the cleanup
procedures by the dates established in the order, the city, its officials,
employees or agents, will arrange appropriate on-site assessment and cleanup
services at the owner’s expense; and
      (6)   That the owner is responsible for all costs associated with the on-
site assessment and clean up of the site including all costs incurred by the
city and other public agencies, and that if the owner does not promptly pay
those costs they will be assessed against the property and collected in the
manner of a special tax.
   (B)   The order shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof is
delivered in one of the following methods:
      (1)   Delivered personally;
      (2)   Sent by certified or first class mail addressed to the last know
address; and
      (3)   A copy posted in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling or
area affected by the order.
(Prior Code, § 609.06)
§ 117.007 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER.
   Upon receipt of the notice and abatement order, the owner will be
responsible for the following:
   (A)   The site and all surrounding areas determined to be at risk are
properly vacated to avoid exposure to unsuspecting parties;
   (B)   Promptly contract with appropriate environmental testing and cleaning
firms to conduct an on-site assessment, complete cleanup and remediation
testing, including periodic follow-up testing to assure the health risks are
sufficiently reduced to allow safe human occupancy of the property and
structures located on the property;
   (C)   Regularly notify the city of actions taken and reach agreement with
the city on the cleanup schedule; and
   (D)   Provide written documentation to the city of the cleanup process,
including a copy of the final certification from the testing firm that the site
is fit for human habitation, and a written, signed, statement that the cleanup
met all MDH guidelines.
(Prior Code, § 609.07)
§ 117.008 CITY AUTHORITY TO INITIATE CLEANUP.
   If, within ten days after service of the notice and the abatement order, the
city is unable to locate the owner or the owner fails to arrange appropriate
on-site assessment and cleanup, the enforcement officer is authorized to
proceed in a prompt manner to initiate the on-site assessment and cleanup. When
appropriate, the city may abate the nuisance by removing any hazardous
structure, building, or otherwise in accordance with M.S. Ch. 463, as it may be
amended from time to time, §§
91.001 through
91.008 of this code of ordinances or by any other means provided under law.
(Prior Code, § 609.08)
§ 117.009 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   The owner of the site is responsible for the costs of vacating the
site and surrounding areas, testing, clean up and public expenses.
   (B)   Public expenses will include all costs that have or may be incurred by
the city and other public agencies including, but not limited to, costs for:
      (1)   Emergency response;
      (2)   Posting and physical security of the site;
      (3)   Notification of affected parties;
      (4)   Expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the assessment
process;
      (5)   Laboratory fees;
      (6)   Cleanup fees; and
      (7)   Administrative fees.
(Prior Code, § 609.09)
§ 117.010 RECOVERY OF CITY COSTS.
   (A)   Within 30 days after receipt of an invoice from the city, the owner
will submit payment in full of all city costs associated with the cleanup
project.
   (B)   If the city has been unable to locate the owner, or the owner fails to
submit timely payment to the city, and after reasonable notice to the owner of
the impending certification, the city is authorized to collect its costs by
assessing those costs against the property in the same manner as a special
assessment which will be certified and collected in the manner of a special tax
in accordance with applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 609.10)
§ 117.011 REMOVAL OF PUBLIC NUISANCE DESIGNATION.
   Upon receipt of the appropriate certification that the site has been cleaned
in accordance with MDH guidelines and is no longer a risk to occupants of the
site or others, the enforcement officer will remove the public nuisance
designation of the site and will so notify in writing the owner and all parties
previously notified. The enforcement officer will also promptly cause all
postings on the site to be removed.
(Prior Code, § 609.11)
§ 117.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter, including, but not
limited to, the unauthorized removal of any official postings at the site, is
guilty of a misdemeanor in addition to any other sanctions and obligations
imposed herein.
(Prior Code, § 609.12)
CHAPTER 118: CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS
Section
General Provisions
   
118.001   Purpose and intent
   
118.002   Definitions
   
118.003   Prohibited sales
   
118.004   Self-service sales
   
118.005   Responsibility
   
118.006   Compliance checks and inspections
   
118.007   Other illegal acts
Licensing Regulations
   
118.020   License required
   
118.021   Application
   
118.022   Criminal background investigation
   
118.023   Action
   
118.024   Term
   
118.025   Revocation or suspension
   
118.026   Transfers
   
118.027   Moveable place of business
   
118.028   Display
   
118.029   Renewals
   
118.030   Issuance as privilege and not right
   
118.031   Proximity to youth-oriented facilities
   
118.032   Proximity to other tobacco retailers
   
118.033   Proximity limitation
   
118.034   Smoking
   
118.035   License conditions
   
118.036   Fees
   
118.037   Basis for denial of license
   
118.038   Suspension or revocation
   
118.039   Exceptions
 
   
118.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 118.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Because the city recognizes that the sale of commercial tobacco,
tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices and nicotine or lobelia
delivery products to persons under the age of 18 violates both state and
federal laws; and because studies, which the city accepts and adopts have shown
that youth use of any commercial tobacco product has increased to 26.4% in
Minnesota; and because nearly 90% of people who use tobacco start before they
have reached the age of 18 years, and that almost no one starts using tobacco
after age 25 and because studies show that youth and young adults arc
especially susceptible to commercial tobacco product availability and
advertising at tobacco retail environments; and because commercial tobacco use
has been shown to be the cause of many serious health problems which
subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of government, this chapter
is intended to regulate the sale of commercial tobacco, tobacco-related
devices, electronic delivery devices and nicotine or lobelia delivery products
for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect youth and
young adults against the serious health effects associated with use and
initiation, and to further the official public policy of the state to prevent
young people from starting to smoke, as stated in M.S. § 144.391, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   In making these findings, City Council accents the conclusions and
recommendation of the U.S. Surgeon General reports, E-cigarette Use Among Youth
and Young Adults (2016), The Health Consequences of Smoking 50 Years of
Progress (2014) and Preventing Tobacco Use Among Youth and Young Adults (2012);
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in their studies, Tobacco Use
Among Middle arid High School Students - United States, 2011-2015 (2016), and
Selected Cigarette Smoking Initiation and Quitting Behaviors Among HiBh School
Students, United States, 1997(1998); and of the following scholars in these
scientific journals: Chen, J., & Millar, W. J. (1998), Age of smoking
initiation: implications for quitting, Health Reports, 9(4), 39-46, D’Avanzo,
B., La Vecchia, C., & Negri, E. (1994), Age at starting smoking and number of
cigarettes smoked. Annals of Epidemiology, 4(6), 455-459, Everett, S. A.,
Warren, J. W., Sharp, D., Kann, L., Huston, C. G., Crossett, L. S. (1999),
Initiation of cigarette smoking and subsequent smoking behavior among U.S. high
school students. Preventive Medicine, 29(5), 327-333; Giovino, G. A. (2002).
Epidemiology of tobacco use in the United States, Oncogene, 27(48), 7326-7340:
Khuder. S. A., Daval. H. H., Mutgi (1999). Age at smoking, onset and its effect
on smoking cessation. Addictive Behaviors. 24(5). 673-677; Luke, D. A.,
Hammond, R. A., Combs, T., Sore. A., Kasman, M., Mack- Crane, A., Henricksen,
L., (2017). Minnesota Department of Health. (2018), Data Highlights from the
2017 Minnesota Youth Tobacco Survey, Saint Paul, MN: Tobacco Control Legal
Consortium, (2006). Xu, X., Bishop, E. E., Kennedy, S. M., Simpson., S. A., &
Pechaeek, T. F. (2015). Annual healthcare spending attributable to cigarette
smoking: an update, American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 48(3), 326-333,
copies of which are adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 512.01) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.002 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying with the
requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall involve the use of
persons under 21 as authorized by this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also
mean the use of persons under 21 who attempt to purchase licensed products for
educational, research and training purposes as authorized by state and federal
laws. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of government for
the purpose of enforcing appropriate federal, state or local laws and
regulations relating to licensed products.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. INDIVIDUALLY WRAPPED TOBACCO AND TOBACCO
PRODUCTS shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this definition shall not be
considered INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED.
   INDOOR AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by
walls, doorways or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than 50% of
the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the perimeter of
the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door or other
physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette or any other tobacco product that has been removed from its packaging
and sold individually. The term LOOSIES does not include individual cigars with
a retail price, before any sales taxes, of more than $2 per cigar.
   LICENSED PRODUCTS. Collectively refers to any tobacco product, tobacco-
related device or electronic delivery device.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption that can he used by a person to simulate smoking in the
delivery of nicotine or any other substance through inhalation of vapor from
the product. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE shall include any component part of
such a product whether or not sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE shall
not include any product that has been approved or otherwise certified by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for legal sales for use in tobacco
cessation treatment or other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold
solely for that approved purpose.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco- related devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery devices are available
for sale to the general public. The phrase shall include, but not be limited
to, grocery stores, convenience stores, restaurants and drug stores.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco-related devices or electronic delivery devices in any manner where any
person shall have access to the tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related
devices or electronic delivery devices, without the assistance or intervention
of the licensee or the licensee’s employee. The assistance or intervention
shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product,
tobacco-related device or electronic delivery device between the customer and
the licensee or employee. SELF-SERVICE SALES are interpreted as being any sale
where there is not an actual physical exchange of the product between the clerk
and the customer.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe or any other lighted or heated product, whether natural
or synthetic, containing, made or derived from nicotine, tobacco, marijuana or
other plant, that is intended for inhalation. SMOKING also includes carrying or
using an activated electronic delivery device.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any product containing, made or derived from
tobacco that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed or ingested by any other means,
or any component, part or accessory of a tobacco product; cigarettes; cigars;
cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco;
fine cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings
and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of TOBACCO. TOBACCO
excludes any tobacco product that has been approved by the United States Food
and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco
dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and
sold solely for such an approved purpose.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Any pipe, rolling papers, ashtray or other device
intentionally designed or intended to be used with tobacco products. TOBACCO-
RELATED DEVICES shall include components of tobacco-related devices which may
be marketed or sold separately.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco-related device.
(Prior Code, § 512.02) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.003 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any licensed products:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 21 years;
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine;
   (C)    By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need
to a make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premises
in order to receive the licensed product and whereby there is not a physical
exchange of the licensed product between the licensee, or the licensee’s
employee, and the customer on the licensed premises of the retail
establishment;
   (D)   By means of delivery whereby a physical exchange takes place at a
location other than the licensed premises of the retail establishment,
including such delivery between either the licensee, the licensee’s employee,
or a third party, and the customer;
   (E)   By means of loosies, as defined in §
118.003 of this chapter;
   (F)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances, except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the
intention of this provision to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes
or other tobacco products;
   (G)   By any other means, to any other person, on in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision or
other regulation; and
   (H)   Before 10:00 a.m. and after 10:00 p.m. at any retail establishment
that derives more than 90% of its gross revenue from the sale of licensed
products.
(Prior Code, § 512.06) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019; Ord. 986, passed 01-24-
2022) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.004 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the sale of
licensed products by any means where by the customer may have access to those
items without having to request the item from the licensee or the licensee’s
employee and whereby there is not a physical exchange of licensed products
between the licensee or his or her clerk and the customer. All licensed
products shall either be stored behind a counter or other area not freely
accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage unit not left open and
accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling licensed products at the
time this chapter is adopted shall comply with this section within 90 days
following the effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 512.07) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.005 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of licensed products on the licensed
premises, and the sale of an item by an employee shall be considered a sale by
the license holder. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
the city from also subjecting the clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate
under this chapter, state or federal law, or other applicable law or
regulation.
(Prior Code, § 512.08) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.006 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the police department
or other authorized city official during regular business hours. The city shall
conduct compliance checks from time to time, but at least twice per year. The
city will conduct at least one compliance check that involves the participation
of a person between the ages of 15 and 17 and at least one compliance check
that involves the participation of a person between the ages of 18 and 20 to
enter licensed premises to attempt to purchase licensed products. Prior written
consent to participate is required of their parents or guardians for persons
over the age of 15 years, but less than 18 years. Persons under the age of 21
will enter the licensed premises to attempt to purchase licensed products and
shall be supervised by city designated law enforcement officers or other
designated city personnel. Persons under the age of 21 shall not be guilty of
unlawful possession of licensed products when those items are obtained as a
part of the compliance check. No persons under the age of 21 used in compliance
checks shall attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting their age,
and all persons under the age of 21 lawfully engaged in a compliance check
shall answer all questions about their age asked by the licensee or his or her
employee and shall produce any identification, if any exists, for which he or
she is asked. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit compliance checks
authorized by state or federal laws for educational, research or training
purposes or required for the enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 512.09) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.007 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any licensed product to any person under the age
of 21.
   (B)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to purchase or otherwise obtain licensed products on behalf of a person
under the age of 21. It shall further be a violation for any person to coerce
or attempt to coerce a person under the age of 21 to illegally purchase or
otherwise obtain or use any licensed products. This division (B) shall not
apply to persons under the age of 21 lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (C)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any person to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false
form of identification, whether the identification is that of another person or
one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to
represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
(Prior Code, § 512.10) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 118.020 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell or offer to sell any licensed products without first
having obtained a license to do so from the city.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.021 APPLICATION.
   An application for a license to sell licensed products shall be made on a
form provided by the city. The application shall contain the full name of the
applicant, the applicant’s residential and business addresses and telephone
numbers, the name of the business for which the license is sought, and any
additional information the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed
application, the City Administrator shall forward the application to the City
Council for action at its next regularly scheduled City Council meeting. If the
City Administrator shall determine that an application is incomplete, he or she
shall return the application to the applicant with notice of the information
necessary to make the application complete.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.022 CRIMINAL BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION.
   A criminal background check is required of the applicant prior to the
issuance of a new or a renewal cigarette/tobacco license. The applicant
information shall be referred to the Chief of Police or his or her designee for
a computerized criminal history from the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal
Apprehension. The Chief must report the findings and comments to the City
Administrator. Findings shall be directed to the City Council for further
investigation and recommendation, approval or denial of the license
application.
(Ord. 1031, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 118.023 ACTION.
   The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it may delay
action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
City Council shall approve the license, the City Administrator shall issue the
license to the applicant. If the City Council denies the license, notice of the
denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant’s
right to appeal the City Council’s decision.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.024 TERM.
   The license is effective from January 1 to December 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019; Ord. 981, passed 11-08-
2021)
§ 118.025 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Any license issued under this section may be revoked or suspended as
provided in §
118.038 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.026 TRANSFERS.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only on the premises
for which the license was issued and only for the person to whom the license
was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or person shall be
valid without the prior approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.027 MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   No license shall be issued to a moveable place of business. Only fixed
location businesses shall be eligible to be licensed under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.028 DISPLAY.
   All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of the general
public on the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.029 RENEWALS.
   The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be handled in the
same manner as the original application.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.030 ISSUANCE AS PRIVILEGE AND NOT RIGHT.
   The issuance of a license issued under this section shall be considered a
privilege and not an absolute right of the applicant and shall not entitle the
holder to an automatic renewal of the license.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.031 PROXIMITY TO YOUTH-ORIENTED FACILITIES.
   No license shall be granted pursuant to this chapter to any person for any
licensed products within 1,000 feet of any school, playground, house of worship
or youth-oriented facility, as measured by the shortest line between the space
to be occupied by the proposed licensee and the occupied space of the school,
playground, house of worship or youth- oriented facility, unless that person
has been in the business of selling the products in that location before the
date this chapter was enacted into law for at least one year. For the purpose
of this section, a YOUTH-ORIENTED FACILITY is defined to include any facility
with residents, customers, visitors or inhabitants of which 25% or more are
regularly under the age of 21 or which primarily sells, rents or offers
services or products that are consumed or used primarily by persons under the
age of 21.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.032 PROXIMITY TO OTHER TOBACCO RETAILERS.
   No license shall be granted pursuant to this chapter to any person for any
retail sales of licensed products within 2,000 feet of any other establishment
holding such a license, as measured by the shortest line between the space to
be occupied by the proposed licensee and the occupied space of the nearest
existing licensee, unless that person has been in the business of selling the
products in that location before the date this section was enacted into law for
at least one year.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.033 PROXIMITY LIMITATION.
   Sections
118.031 and
118.032 of this chapter shall only apply to new licenses approved after 01-01-
2012. Sections
118.031 and
118.032 of this chapter shall not apply to renewals and approved transfers.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.034 SMOKING.
   (A)   Smoking shall not be permitted and no person shall smoke within the
indoor area of any retail establishment with a tobacco retailer license.
Smoking for the purposes of sampling licensed products is prohibited.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, pursuant to M.S. § 144.4167, subd.
4, as it may be amended from time to time, a cigar may be lit in a retail
establishment if all of the following circumstances are met:
      (1)   The smoking is by a customer or potential customer, who is not
under the age of 21, for the specific purpose of sampling cigars;
      (2)   The retail establishment has an entrance door opening directly to
the outside;
      (3)   The retail establishment is not a tobacco department or section of
any individual business establishment with any type of liquor, food or
restaurant license; and
      (4)   The retail establishment derives more than 90% of its gross revenue
from the sale of loose tobacco, plants or herbs and cigars, cigarettes, pipes
and other smoking devices for burning tobacco and related smoking accessories
and in which the sale of other products is merely incidental.
   (C)   Any cigar lighting allowed under division (B) above shall be
prohibited in the licensee’s retail establishment if the licensee transfers
title to, relinquishes management or control, sells the retail establishment or
the licensee’s tobacco license is suspended or revoked by the city.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.035 LICENSE CONDITIONS.
   Each license issued under this subchapter is subject to all of the following
conditions.
   (A)   The licensee must post signs in visible locations that prohibit
loitering inside or near the front entrance of the retail establishment.
   (B)   The licensee must fully light the interior of the retail establishment
during business hours such that every part, corner, aisle, room and section of
the retail establishment is wholly illuminated.
   (C)   The sales counter, store entrance and interior of the retail
establishment shall be visually recorded with a videotape or similar device at
a quality level that allows the visual identification of patrons and employees.
The recordings shall be maintained and made available to the police for 30
calendar days before being reused.
   (D)   The licensee must post a sign at the front entrance that prohibits
selling licensed products to persons under the age of 21.
   (E)   The licensee must fully cooperate with representatives from the city
when present at the retail establishment for city business purposes.
   (F)   The licensee must maintain clean and clear front and rear entrances of
the retail establishment.
   (G)   The licensee may not supply matches to non-purchasing customers.
   (H)   Each day of business, the licensee must inspect the entrances of the
retail establishment for litter and properly dispose of the litter.
   (I)   The licensee must promptly remove any graffiti on the exterior of the
retail establishment.
(Prior Code, § 512.03) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.036 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
established in the city’s fee schedule, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 512.04) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.037 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license under this
chapter include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 21 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices or
electronic delivery devices;
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products revoked
within the preceding 12 months of the date of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information;
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation from holding a license; and
      (6)   The applicant is not of good moral character.
   (B)   However, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of
any particular ground for denial does not mean that the city must deny the
license.
   (C)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 512.05) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.038 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   General. In addition to any other penalty imposed under §
118.999 of this chapter, any license issued under this chapter may be suspended
or revoked by the City Council for a violation of any provision of this chapter
if the licensee has been given a reasonable notice and an opportunity to be
heard. A second violation within 12 months of the initial violation shall
result in a suspension of not less than three consecutive days. A third
violation within 24 months of the initial violation shall result in a
suspension of ten consecutive days. A fourth violation within 24 months of the
initial violation shall result in revocation of license for 90 consecutive
days, and shall require a hearing before the City Council.
   (B)   Hearing and notices. Suspension or revocation of a license shall be
preceded by a hearing before the City Council. A hearing notice shall be
delivered to the licensee at least ten days prior to the hearing. The hearing
notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and the nature of the
charges against the licensee. Judicial appeal shall be as provided for by state
law.
(Prior Code, § 512.12) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.039 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of licensed products to
a person under the age of 21 as part of a lawfully recognized religious,
spiritual or cultural ceremony.
(Prior Code, § 512.13) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019)
§ 118.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Licensees. If a licensee or an employee of a licensee violates any
provision of this chapter, the licensee shall be subject to an administrative
penalty as required in M.S. § 461.12, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time
to time. If a licensee or an employee of a licensee violates any provision of
this chapter a second time at the same location within 36 months of the initial
violation, the licensee shall be subject to an administrative penalty as
required in M.S., § 461.12, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time. If
a licensee or an employee of a licensee violates any provision of this chapter
a third time at the same location within 36 months of the initial violation,
the licensee shall be subject to an administrative penalty as required in M.S.,
§ 461.12, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall be subject
to a license suspension or revocation, in the council's discretion, and any
such suspension must be for at least seven days. No penalty under this division
(A) shall take effect until the licensee has received notice, served personally
or by mail, of the alleged violation, and has had an opportunity for a hearing
before the City Council. The notice shall provide information on how and where
a hearing may be requested. The hearing must be requested by the licensee
within ten business days of notice delivery. A decision by the City Council
that a violation of this chapter has occurred shall be in writing. Judicial
appeal shall be as provided for by state law. Nothing contained herein shall
preclude additional efforts by the city for violations, including, but not
necessarily limited to, criminal charges or civil relief.
   (B)   Individuals. Any person who sells tobacco to a person under the age of
21 years may be subject to an administrative penalty as set forth in the city’s
fee schedule for a first offense and as set forth in the city’s fee schedule
additional for every subsequent offense. This penalty shall be in addition to
the penalty imposed against a licensee under division (A) above. No penalty
under this division (B) shall take effect until the person against whom the
penalty will be charged has received notice, served personally or by mail, of
the alleged violation, and has had an opportunity for a hearing before the City
Council. The notice shall provide information on how and where a hearing may be
requested. The hearing must be requested within ten business days of notice
delivery. A decision by the City Council that a violation of this section has
occurred shall be in writing. Judicial appeal shall be as provided for by state
law. Nothing contained herein shall preclude additional enforcement efforts by
the city for violations, including, but not necessarily limited to, criminal
charges or civil relief.
   (C)   Misdemeanors; continued violations. A violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be considered a misdemeanor, subject to a fine of not more
than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both. Each violation,
and every day in which a violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (D)   Defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to a charge of selling
licensed products to a person under the age of 21 years in violation of this
chapter that the licensee or individual making the sale relied in good faith
upon proof of age as described in M.S. § 340A.503, subd. 6, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 512.11) (Ord. 961, passed 09-09-2019; Ord. 986, passed 01-24-
2022)
CHAPTER 119: RENTAL DWELLINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
119.001   Purpose and intent
   
119.002   Definitions
   
119.003   Disclosure of local agent
   
119.004   Conduct on licensed premises
   
119.005   Inspections
   
119.006   Rooming houses
   
119.007   Crime-Free Rental Housing Program; voluntary certification
Licensing Regulations
   
119.020   License required
   
119.021   Application for license
   
119.022   License fees
   
119.023   Conversion fees
   
119.024   Issuance of license
   
119.025   Posting
   
119.026   Annual renewal of license
   
119.027   Transfer of registration
   
119.028   License non-transferable
 
   
119.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 119.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of the community at large and the residents of rental dwellings in the
city and to ensure that rental housing in the city is decent, safe and sanitary
and is so operated and maintained as not to become a nuisance to the
neighborhood or to become an influence that fosters blight and deterioration or
creates a disincentive to reinvestment in the community. The operation of
rental residential properties is a business enterprise that entails certain
responsibilities. Operators are responsible to take such reasonable steps as
are necessary to ensure that the citizens of the city who occupy such units may
pursue the quiet enjoyment of the normal activities of life in surroundings
that are: safe, secure and sanitary; free from noise, nuisances or annoyances;
and free from unreasonable fears about safety of persons and security of
property.
(Prior Code, § 1012.01) (Ord. 731, passed 03-22-2004)
§ 119.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRUG-RELATED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Illegal manufacturing, sale, distribution,
use or possession with the intent to manufacture, sell distribute or use of a
controlled substance or any substance represented to be drugs, as defined in §
102 of the Controlled Substance Act, 21. U.S.C. § 8021.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building designed with three or more dwelling units
exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living independently of
each other.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof containing one
dwelling unit. For the purposes of this chapter, a SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT
includes a freestanding single family residence, a single dwelling in a
cooperative, an individual condominium or townhouse, a single dwelling unit in
a non-residential structure or a dwelling unit offered for rent in a duplex in
which the owner occupies the other dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof containing two dwelling
units and designed exclusively for occupancy by two families living
independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. Residential accommodation in any building or portion thereof
including complete kitchen facilities, permanently installed, that contains
living facilities, provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, for
not more than one family and not more than an aggregate of two roomers or
boarders.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Housing Code Enforcement Officer, or other person
so designated by the city.
   GROUP HOME. A residential accommodation for a small group of unrelated
people in need of care, support or supervision.
   RENTAL DWELLING. Any residential accommodation in any building or portion
thereof containing dwelling units and offered for occupancy in exchange for
monetary payment, service, property or other valuable consideration.
   RENTAL DWELLING UNIT. Residential accommodation in any building or portion
thereof including complete kitchen facilities, permanently installed, that
contains living facilities, provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and
sanitation, and offered for occupancy in exchange for monetary payment.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any residence building containing one or more rooming units
in which space is let by the owner or operator to persons who are not related
to the owner by blood or marriage.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping that does not contain
permanently installed provisions for cooking.
   TENANT. Any person living or sleeping in a rental dwelling or having
possession of a space within a rental dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 1012.02) (Ord. 802, passed 02-25-2008; Ord. 915, passed 06-13-
2016; Ord. 946, passed 07-09-2018)
§ 119.003 DISCLOSURE OF LOCAL AGENT.
   If the registered owner is not the person or entity authorized to manage the
building and collect rents on behalf of the owner, or if the registered owner
is not the local agent, then in addition to posting the rental dwelling license
as required by §
119.025 of this chapter, the owner in whom is vested either a legal or
beneficial interest in the premises shall post a typewritten or printed
notification, resistant to weather and other elements, in a conspicuous place
at or near the front door, containing the following information:
   (A)   The name, street address, city and zip code of the person or entity
authorized to manage the building and collect rent;
   (B)   The name, street address, city and zip code of the local agent
authorized to accept service of process and give receipt for notice and
demands; and
   (C)   The information in divisions (A) and (B) above, plus a telephone
number for 24-hour maintenance shall be made available to the tenant in written
form at the commencement of the tenancy.
(Prior Code, § 1012.04) (Ord. 802, passed 02-25-2008)
§ 119.004 CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   Conduct on licensed premises. It shall be the responsibility of the
licensee to see that persons occupying the licensed premises conduct themselves
in a manner as not to cause the premises to be disorderly.
      (1)   For purposes of this division (A), a premises is disorderly when
any of the following activities occur:
         (a)   Violation of laws relating to possession of controlled
substances as defined in state statutes;
         (b)   Violation of laws relating to disorderly conduct as defined in
M.S. §§ 609.72 and 609.74, as they may be amended from time to time;
         (c)   Violation of
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances or violation of laws relating to possession,
sale or consumption of liquor or alcoholic beverages;
         (d)   Violation of laws relating to gambling;
         (e)   Violation of city ordinances or state statutes relating to
prostitution;
         (f)   Violation of laws relating to unlawful use or possession of a
firearm;
         (g)   Violation of M.S. § 609.705 (unlawful assembly), as it may be
amended from time to time;
         (h)   Violation of M.S. § 609.71 (Riot), as it may be amended from
time to time;
         (i)   Violation of M.S. § 609.713 (threats of violence), as it may be
amended from time to time;
         (j)   Violation of M.S. § 609.715 (presence at unlawful assembly), as
it may be amended from time to time;
         (k)   Violation of §
91.008 of this code of ordinances;
         (l)   Violation of M.S. § 609.50 (interference with a police officer),
as it may be amended from time to time;
         (m)   Violation of M.S. §§ 609.221 through 609.2224, relating to
assault , as it may be amended from time to time;
         (n)   Violation of M.S. § 609.226 (dangerous dogs), as it may be
amended from time to time;
         (o)   Violation of M.S. § 609.78 (interference with a 911 call), as it
may be amended from time to time;
         (p)   Violation of M.S. § 243.166 (predatory offender registration),
as it may be amended from time to time;
         (q)   Violation of M.S. § 609.26, subd. 1(8) (contributing to a child
being a runaway), as it may be amended from time to time; and
         (r)   Violation of M.S. § 609.595 (criminal damage to property), as it
may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   The Police Department and Community Development Department shall be
responsible for enforcement and administration of this division (A).
      (3)   Upon determination by the Police Department that a licensed
premises was used in a disorderly manner, as described in division (A)(1)
above, the Police Department shall cause notice to be made to the licensee of
the violation and direct the licensee to take steps to prevent further
violations.
      (4)   If a second instance of disorderly use of the licensed premises
occurs within 12 months of an incident for which a notice in division (A)(3)
above, was given, the Police Department shall notify the licensee of the
violation and shall also require the licensee to submit a written report of the
actions taken, and proposed to be taken, by the licensee to prevent further
disorderly use of the premises. This written report shall be submitted to the
Police Department within five days of the receipt of the notice of disorderly
use of the premises and shall detail all actions taken by the licensee in
response to all notices of disorderly use of the premises within the preceding
12 months.
      (5)   If a third instance of disorderly use of the licensed premises
occurs within 12 months after a second instance of disorderly use for which a
notice was given to the licensee pursuant to division (A)(4) above, the license
for the premises may be denied, revoked, suspended or not renewed. Any action
to deny, revoke, suspend or not renew a license shall be initiated by the
Police Department or Community Development Department who shall give to the
licensee written notice of a hearing before the City Council to consider the
denial, revocation, suspension or non-renewal. The written notice shall specify
all violations of this division (A)(5), and shall state the date, time, place
and purpose of the hearing. The hearing shall be held no less than ten days and
no more than 30 days after giving the notice. Following the hearing, the City
Council may deny, revoke, suspend or decline to renew the license for all or
any part or parts of the licensed premises or may grant a license upon such
terms and conditions as it deems necessary to accomplish the purposes of this
division (A)(5). For the purposes of this division (A)(5), second and third
instances of disorderly use shall be those which occur at the same rental unit,
involve tenants at the same rental unit, involve guests or invitees at the same
rental unit, involve guests or invitees of the same tenant or involve the same
tenant.
      (6)   A determination that the licensed premises has been used in a
disorderly manner as described in division (A) above shall be made upon
substantial evidence to support such a determination. It shall not be necessary
that criminal charges be brought in order to support a determination of
disorderly use, nor shall the fact of dismissal or acquittal of such a criminal
charge operate as a bar to adverse license action under this division (A)(6).
      (7)   No adverse license action shall be imposed where the instance of
disorderly use of the premises occurred during the pendency of an eviction
action or within 30 days of notice given by the licensee to a tenant to vacate
the premises where the disorderly use was related to conduct by that tenant or
by occupants or guests of the tenants unit. Exceptions: eviction proceedings do
not preclude license suspension or revocation unless the eviction proceedings
are being diligently pursued by the licensee. Further, an action to deny,
revoke, suspend or not renew a license based upon violations of this division
(A)(7) may be postponed or discontinued by the city at any time if it appears
that the licensee has taken appropriate measures that will prevent further
instances of disorderly use.
      (8)   All notices given by the city under this division (A)(8) shall be
personally served on the licensee, sent by certified mail to the licensee’s
last known address or, if the last known address is unknown or personal service
is ineffective, by posting on a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
      (9)   Enforcement actions provided in this division (A) shall not be
exclusive, and the City Council may take any action with respect to a licensee,
a tenant or the licensed premises as is authorized by the city code, state or
federal law.
   (B)   License suspension, revocation, denial and non-renewal. The City
Council may suspend, revoke, deny or not renew any license issued under this
chapter upon any of the following grounds:
      (1)   False statements on any application or other information or report
required by this chapter and supplied by the applicant or licensee;
      (2)   Failure to pay any license, fee, penalty, reinspection or
reinstatement fee required by this chapter, City Council resolution and per the
city’s approved fee schedule;
      (3)   Failure to correct deficiencies noted in a notice of violation,
issued pursuant to
Ch. 150 of this code of ordinances, within the time specified in the notice;
      (4)   Any other violation of this chapter;
      (5)   A decision to suspend, revoke, deny or not renew a license shall be
preceded by written notice to the applicant or licensee of the alleged grounds
therefore and the applicant or licensee will be given the opportunity for a
hearing before the City Council before final action to suspend, revoke, deny or
not renew a license. The Council shall give due regard to the frequency and
seriousness of violations, the ease with which the violations could have been
remedied or avoided, and good faith efforts to comply and shall issue a
decision to suspend, revoke, deny or not renew a license only upon written
findings;
      (6)   The City Council may suspend, revoke, deny or not renew a license
for part or all of a rental dwelling;
      (7)   Upon decision to suspend, revoke, deny or not renew a license, no
new application for the same facility will be accepted for a period specified
in the Council’s written decision, not exceeding one year. The new applications
must be accompanied by a reinstatement fee, per the city’s approved fee
schedule, in addition to all other fees required by this chapter; and
      (8)   A written decision to suspend, revoke, deny or not renew a license
or application shall specify the part or parts of the facility to which it
applies. Thereafter, and until a license is reissued or reinstated, no rental
units becoming vacant in the part or parts of the facility may be relet or
occupied. Suspension, revocation, denial or non-renewal of a license shall not
excuse the owner from compliance with all terms of this chapter for as long as
any units in the facility are occupied. Failure to comply with all terms of
this chapter during the term of the suspension, revocation, denial or non-
renewal is a misdemeanor and grounds for extension of the term of such
suspension, revocation, denial or continuation of non-renewal, or for a
decision not to reinstate the license, notwithstanding any limitations of the
period of suspension, revocation, denial or non-renewal specified in the City
Council’s written decision.
(Prior Code, § 1012.05) (Ord. 731, passed 03-22-2004; Ord. 802, passed 02-25-
2008; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-2019)
§ 119.005 INSPECTIONS.
   The enforcement officer shall be authorized to make or cause to be made
inspections to determine the condition of licensed premises in order to
safeguard the health, safety, morals and welfare of the public. The enforcement
officer, or authorized representatives, shall be authorized to enter any
licensed premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of performing the
officer’s duties under this chapter. The owner, operator or the local agent of
the licensed premises shall be present for inspections and shall give the
enforcement officer free access to the licensed premises at all reasonable
times for the purpose of the inspection, examination and survey. If the owner,
operator or person in charge thereof shall refuse to consent to the inspection,
the license may be suspended, revoked, denied or non-renewed pursuant to §
119.004(B) of this chapter. If the occupant refuses to consent to the
inspection, a search warrant may be obtained where there is probable cause to
believe that a violation exists within the particular structure. No warrant is
needed for entry where an emergency condition exists which endangers persons or
property and insufficient time is available to obtain a warrant and protect
endangered persons or property.
(Prior Code, § 1012.06) (Ord. 731, passed 03-22-2004; Ord. 802, passed 02-25-
2008; Ord. 915, passed 06-13-2016)
§ 119.006 ROOMING HOUSES.
   No person shall own or operate a rooming house or shall occupy or let to
another for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except in
compliance with the provisions of every division below.
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities.
      (1)   At least one water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
shall be supplied for each two rooming units within a rooming house, wherever
the facilities are shared.
      (2)   Every water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower required
by division (A)(1) above shall be located within the rooming house and within
rooms which afford privacy and are separate from the habitable rooms and are
accessible from a common hall without going outside the rooming house
structure.
   (B)   Shades, drapes and the like. Every window of every rooming unit shall
be supplied with shades, drawn drapes or other devices or materials which, when
properly installed and used afford privacy to the occupant of the rooming unit.
   (C)   Sanitary maintenance. The owner of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceiling in
common areas.
(Prior Code, § 1012.06) (Ord. 802, passed 02-25-2008)
§ 119.007 CRIME-FREE RENTAL HOUSING PROGRAM; VOLUNTARY CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   The city has established a voluntary program providing property owners
and managers an opportunity to learn, train and work hand in hand with law
enforcement as well as the Community Development Department to ensure that the
city rental housing stock maintains a crime and drug free environment.
   (B)   Based on the desired level of certification requested by the property
and the completion of the requirements for each level, the license fee can be
reduced as follows.
      (1)   Level “C” certification (20% reduction in license fees).
         (a)   The property owner or a designated representative shall attend
two or more meetings of the New Brighton/Mounds View Property Managers’
Coalition meetings per year.
         (b)   The licensee or applicant shall have paid the required license
fee in a timely manner, as defined in this code of ordinances.
         (c)   The owner shall not allow weeds, vegetation, junk, debris or
rubbish to accumulate repeatedly on the exterior of the premises so as to
create a nuisance condition under
Ch. 91 of this code of ordinances. Issuance of three or more notices of
violation during the previous licensing period regarding violations of §§
91.001 through
91.008 of this code of ordinances is to be used as a basis for determination of
compliance with of this requirement.
         (d)   The crime-free/drug-free addendum shall be issued with every
lease/tenant.
         (e)   The property owner or designated representative shall attend and
complete a one-day (eight-hour) training course as prescribed by the
International Crime Free Association: Crime-Free Multi-Housing Program. The
information contained in the seminar is a compilation of experience and proven
methods from professional rental property managers, lawyers and police
officers. Evidence of completion of this course shall be provided in the form
of a certificate of completion. Certificate shall he dated within the past five
years.
         (f)   The property owner shall complete criminal background
investigations which cover the seven-county metro area going back at least
three years on all rental applicants who will be occupying the premises. Rental
applicants must apply in person and show valid ID. Criminal background
investigations shall be conducted by an agency that is approved by the city.
      (2)   Level “B” certification shall include all of the requirements of
Level “A” certification, plus following (33% reduction in license fees).
         (a)   The property owner or designated representative shall attend
three or more meetings of the New Brighton/Mounds View Property Managers’
Coalition meetings per year.
         (b)   Crime Free Security Assessment: The property must be certified
as “Crime-Free Multi- Housing”, as defined by the International Crime-Free
Association: Crime-Free Multi Housing Program.
         (c)   The property owner shall complete criminal background
investigations which cover the entire state going back at least three years on
all rental applicants who will be occupying the premises. Rental applicants
must apply in person and show valid ID. If the tenant has resided in another
state in the last three years, background check must cover the last three years
of residence in that state. Criminal background investigations shall be
conducted by an agency that is approved by the city.
      (3)   Level “A” Certification shall include all of the requirements of
“B” certification, plus the following (50% reduction in license fees).
         (a)   The property owner or designated representative shall conduct a
resident safety meeting with the tenants.
         (b)   The property owner or designated representative shall attend
four or more meetings of the New Brighton/Mounds View Property Managers’
Coalition meetings per year.
      (4)   Exclusion from penalties. The Crime- Free Rental Housing Program is
voluntary; therefore, it is excluded from the penalties outlined in §
119.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. 915, passed 06-13-2016; Ord. 971, passed 12-09-2019)
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 119.020 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall allow to be occupied or let to another for occupancy any
rental dwelling unit unless the owner has first obtained a rental dwelling
license.
   (A)   Applicability. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
multiple dwellings, rental dwellings, rental dwelling units, including rented
single-family dwellings, rented condominiums, rented townhouses and rented
leasehold cooperative dwelling units. One license shall be issued for each
building with rental dwelling units and shall be deemed to cover only such
dwelling units under single ownership.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   A rental dwelling license is not required for single-family
dwellings occupied by the owner where no more than two sleeping rooms are
rented and the renters have access to the entire dwelling.
      (2)   A rental dwelling license is not required for single-family
dwellings occupied only by the owner’s children or parents.
      (3)   A rental dwelling license is not required for zero-lot-line
dwellings in which the units are owned individually and not rented.
      (4)   A rental dwelling license fee and the inspection will be waived by
the city for two-family dwellings if both units are occupied by the owner, the
owner’s children or the owner’s parents, subject to annual submission of the
rental license application form.
(Prior Code, § 1012.03) (Ord. 915, passed 06-13-2016)
§ 119.021 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Before any license required by this section shall be issued or renewed, the
owner shall make written application with the Community Development Department
for a license to carry on the business of renting residential property.
   (A)   An application must be filed with the Community Development Department
30 days prior to the effective date for license renewal in existing buildings.
For new buildings an application shall be filed after construction is
completed, but before any units are occupied.
   (B)   Applications shall be signed and submitted by the owner of a rental
dwelling if the owner is a natural person, if the owner is a corporation, by an
officer thereof; and if the owner is a partnership, by a partner thereof.
   (C)   The application shall be made on forms provided by the Community
Development Department. License applications shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Legal address of the rental dwelling;
      (2)   Number and type of units rented;
      (3)   Total floor area of the building;
      (4)   The number of off-street uncovered parking spaces and the number of
covered parking spaces;
      (5)   Name, business or residence address, telephone number and email
address. If the owner is a partnership the name of the partnership, the name,
residence address and email address of the managing partner and the full name
and address of all partners. If the owner is a corporation, the application
shall include the name and address of the corporation and the name of the chief
operating officer;
      (6)   If the owner has appointed a property manager or an agent
authorized to accept service of process and to receive and give receipt for
notices, the name, business or residence address, telephone number and email
address; and
      (7)   Every applicant, whether an individual, partnership or corporation,
shall identify in the application the residence or business street address,
telephone number and email address, of a natural person who is actively
involved in, and responsible for, the maintenance and management of the
premises. The natural person, if other than the owner, shall accept joint and
several responsibility with the owner, including any potential criminal, civil
or administrative liability, for the maintenance and management of the
premises. A post office box or commercial mail receiving service are not
acceptable as an address for the person. The individual designated herein may
also be the owner of the dwelling or an agent identified in §
119.002 of this chapter.
   (D)   No rental dwelling license shall be issued or renewed if the owner
does not reside within the 11-county metro area consisting of: Anoka; Carver;
Chisago; Dakota; Hennepin; Isanti; Ramsey; Scott; Sherburne; Washington; and
Wright; unless the owner designates in writing the name of a local agent who
resides within the 11-county metro area. The Community Development Department
shall be notified in writing of any change of local agent.
   (E)   In the event that any of the information required to be provided by
this section changes, the applicant or licensee shall, within 14 days, notify
in writing the Community Development Department of the changes.
(Prior Code, § 1012.03) (Ord. 572, passed 02-26-1996; Ord. 802, passed 02-25-
2008; Ord. 915, passed 06-13-2016; Ord. 946, passed 07-09-2018; Ord. 971,
passed 12-09-2019)
§ 119.022 LICENSE FEES.
   An annual fee, per the city’s approved fee schedule, shall be paid 30 days
prior to the license expiration date. License fees may be reduced by voluntary
participation in the crime-free rental housing program as outlined in §
119.007 of this chapter. Any owner or agent who fails to apply for license
renewal in the case of an existing license, prior to the time or date set forth
herein shall pay a penalty as established by City Council resolution. The
license fee shall include the initial inspection and one follow-up inspection.
A fee, per the city’s approved fee schedule, shall be charged for any
reinspections or attempted reinspections required, whether due to the failure
of the reinspection, the enforcement officer’s inability to gain access to the
multiple dwelling at the time of attempted reinspection, or otherwise, and must
be paid before a license will be issued. The operation of an unlicensed rental
dwelling unit shall be subject to an additional administrative fine,
established by City Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1012.03) (Ord. 731, passed 03-22-2004; Ord. 802, passed 02-25-
2008; Ord. 915, passed 06-13-2016)
§ 119.023 CONVERSION FEES.
   When a dwelling is converted to a rental dwelling or has been unlicensed for
more than a year, it must be inspected for compliance with the Housing
Maintenance Code. The fee for this conversion and inspection shall be per the
city’s approved fee schedule. This fee can be reduced if the owner engages the
services of a management company or presents proof of participation in an
applicable education program. The conversion fee is in addition to the annual
license fee. Buildings that are owned by a non-profit entity or are newly
constructed are exempt from the conversion fee.
(Ord. 915, passed 06-13-2016)
§ 119.024 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
    The Community Development Department shall issue a rental dwelling license
if the building is found to be in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and all other code provisions, provided that all real estate taxes and
utility bills for the premises which are due have been paid.
   (A)   The license shall state that the rental dwelling has been inspected
and complies with the requirements of the city code. Additionally, the license
shall contain contact information for maintenance and management requests and a
statement that tenants of the rental dwelling may contact the attorney general
for information regarding the rights and obligations of the owners and tenants
under state law. The statement shall include the telephone number and address
of the attorney general.
   (B)   The following minimum standards and conditions shall be met in order
to hold a rental dwelling license under this chapter. Failure to comply with
any of these standards and conditions shall be adequate grounds for the denial,
refusal to renew, revocation or suspension of a rental dwelling license:
      (1)   The licensee or applicant have paid the required license fees;
      (2)   Rental dwelling units shall not exceed the maximum number of
dwelling units permitted by the Zoning Code;
      (3)   An owner shall not have any violations, related to building
permits, at any rental dwelling which it owns or has an ownership interest;
      (4)   Failure to complete required corrections to maintain the property
in compliance with the city code and the applicable requirements of state
statutes; and
      (5)   (a)   All tenants must sign a lease agreement, except for state or
county licensed residential facilities, subject to all preemptory state and
federal laws. The lease agreement shall contain a crime-free housing addendum
with the following language:
            1.   Resident, any members of the resident’s household or a guest
or other person affiliated with the resident, shall not engage in criminal
activity, including drug-related criminal activity, on or near the premises.
            2.   Resident, any members of a resident’s household or a guest or
other person affiliated with resident, shall not engage in any act intended to
facilitate criminal activity, including drug related criminal activity, on or
near the premises.
            3.   Resident or member of the household will not permit the
dwelling unit to be used for or to facilitate criminal activity, including
drug-related criminal activity, regardless of whether the individual engaging
in the criminal activity is a member of the household or guest.
            4.   Resident, any members of the resident’s household or a guest
or other person affiliated with the resident, shall not engage in the unlawful
manufacturing, selling, using, storing, keeping or giving of a controlled
substance at any locations, whether on or near the premises or otherwise.
            5.   Violation of the above provisions shall be material and
irreparable violation of the lease and good cause for immediate termination of
tenancy.
         (b)   Non-exclusive remedies. The crime-free housing addendum language
is in addition to all other terms of the lease and does not limit or replace
any other provisions.
         (c)   Upon determination by the Police Department or the Community
Development Department that a licensed premises or a unit within a licensed
premises was used in violation of the crime-free housing addendum, the Police
Department or Community Development Department shall notify the owner and
property manager of the violation. The owner or property manager shall notify
the tenant(s) within ten days of the notice of violation of the crime-free
housing addendum language and proceed with the termination of tenancy of all
tenants occupying the unit. The owner shall not enter into a new lease with the
evicted tenant for a period of one year after the eviction. If the owner or
property manager fails to comply with this section, the Community Development
Department may initiate action to deny, revoke, suspend or not renew the
license as outlined in §
119.004 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1012.03) (Ord. 731, passed 03-22-2004; Ord. 802, passed 02-25-
2008; Ord. 915, passed 06-13-2016; Ord. 946, passed 07-09-2018; Ord. 957,
passed 05-28-2019; Ord. 990, passed 04-25-2022)
§ 119.025 POSTING.
   Every licensee shall make available the receipted copy of the license in the
following manner.
   (A)   Buildings with four or more dwelling units. The license shall be
conspicuously posted, in a frame with a glass covering in a public corridor,
hallway or lobby of the multiple dwelling for which it is issued.
   (B)   Buildings with three or less dwelling units. Buildings with three or
less dwelling units shall provide a copy of the receipted rental license to
prospective tenants at the time of lease signing for the subject property.
(Prior Code, § 1012.03) (Ord. 731, passed 03-22-2004)
§ 119.026 ANNUAL RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   The term of the rental dwelling license is 12 months and expires on December
31 of each year. Exceptions: the 2019 annual fee shall be 15 months (five
quarters): 10-1-2018 through 12-31-2019.
(Prior Code, § 1012.03) (Ord. 731, passed 03-22-2004; Ord. 802, passed 02-25-
2008; Ord. 946, passed 07-09-2018)
§ 119.027 TRANSFER OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   A license is transferable to any person who has actually acquired
legal ownership of a licensed building for the unexpired portion of the term
for which it was issued or reissued.
   (B)   The licensee must give written notice to the Community Development
Department within five business days after having legally transferred or
otherwise disposed of the legal control of any licensed rental dwelling.
   (C)   The notice must include the name and address of the person succeeding
to the ownership or control of the rental dwelling or dwellings.
   (D)   The fee for transfer of a rental dwelling license shall be per the
city’s approved fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 1012.03) (Ord. 731, passed 03-22-2004; Ord. 802, passed 02-25-
2008; Ord. 915, passed 06-13-2016)
§ 119.028 LICENSE NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   No license is transferable during the pendency of a code enforcement matter
related to the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 1012.03) (Ord. 802, passed 02-25-2008; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-
2019)
§ 119.999 PENALTY.
   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Each day the rental dwelling or premise is in violation of this
chapter shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to the punishment
specified in this section, the city may enforce this code by an appropriate
form of civil action and may enjoin violation of this chapter and compel
obedience thereto by mandatory orders and writs that cause the premises to be
vacated, if occupied in violation thereof, and to remain vacant until the court
shall find that the violation has ceased, and for these purposes, any court of
competent jurisdiction may render, enter, make and issue any and every
appropriate judgment, decree, writ and order and cause the same to be executed.
(Prior Code, § 1012.08) (Ord. 731, passed 03-22-2004; Ord. 802, passed 02-25-
2008; Ord. 915, passed 06-13-2016)
CHAPTER 120: MOBILE FOOD VEHICLES AND VENDORS
Section
   
120.001   Definitions
   
120.002   Parking and location
   
120.003   County or state licensing
   
120.004   Restrictions
§ 120.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. Any vehicle or trailer used for the purpose of selling
food or beverage prepared for consumption inside the vehicle and while the
vehicle is parked.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. Any vehicle or trailer used for the purpose of selling
prepackaged food or beverages while parked or while going from street-to-street
including, but not limited to, ice cream trucks/vendors.
(Ord. 980, passed 09-13-2021; Ord. 1032, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 120.002 PARKING AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Site plan. Any person operating a mobile food vehicle in the city
shall provide to the city a site plan showing the location of the parked truck
or trailer on the property and its distance from all permanent structures and
property lines (moving mobile food vendors are exempt from this requirement).
   (B)   Location duration. Mobile food vehicle shall operate no more than 21
days annually at any one place without the approval of the regulatory authority
as defined in Minnesota Statutes.
   (C)   Authorization to use property. Any person operating a mobile food
vehicle shall submit a signed agreement from the property owner or his or her
authorized agent.
(Ord. 1032, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 120.003 COUNTY OR STATE LICENSING.
   Any person operating a mobile food vehicle shall adhere to any county or
state licensing requirements or any city requirements related to organized
events. Proof of county or state licensing shall be provided to the city prior
to operation.
(Ord. 1032, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 120.004 RESTRICTIONS.
   No person, mobile food vehicle operator or mobile food vendor shall conduct
business in any of the following manners and in the following areas:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or the items to be sold by
means of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any
other noise, so as to be unreasonably audible.
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian,
on any street, sidewalk, alleyway, or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any specific individual or the general public.
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m., unless
expressly authorized in the license issued hereunder.
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license and identification when requested.
   (F)   Using the license of another person.
   (G)   Alleging false or misleading statements about the products being sold,
including untrue statements of endorsement. No mobile food vehicle or mobile
food vendor shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely based on the
city having issued a license to that person.
   (H)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave or
returning to that property after leaving, without written permission of the
property owner.
   (I)   Operating their business in any manner that a reasonable person may
find obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
   (J)   Conducting business in a city park or parking lot unless expressly
authorized by the city in writing.
   (K)   Operate business less than 2,000 feet away when there is a permit
issued for another food or similar permitted event, festival, celebration, or
tournament at the same location unless expressly authorized in the license
issued hereunder.
   (L)   Failing to maintain their vehicle or trailer in good repair, order,
and neat appearance.
   (M)   Failing to clean up around their vehicle or trailer at the end of each
business day.
   (N)   Dispensing liquid and or other waste products from their vehicle or
trailer on to city, public, and private property.
   (O)   Conducting business less than 2,000 feet away from any food service
business unless expressly authorized by the city.
(Ord. 980, passed 09-13-2021; Ord. 1032, passed 3-10-2025)
CHAPTER 121: CANNABIS AND HEMP BUSINESSES
Section
   
121.001   Purpose
   
121.002   Definitions
   
121.003   Local government as a cannabis retailer
   
121.004   Pre-license certification of cannabis businesses
   
121.005   Retailer registration
   
121.006   Compliance checks
   
121.007   Hours of operation
   
121.008   Distance requirements
   
121.009   Cannabis business complaints
   
121.010   Penalties; administration; enforcement
   
121.011   Severability
§ 121.001 PURPOSE.
   The City of Mounds View makes the following legislative findings: the
purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, welfare in the
city by implementing regulations pursuant to M.S. Ch. 342 related to cannabis
and hemp businesses within the city. The city finds and concludes that these
regulations are appropriate and lawful, that the proposed amendments will
promote the community's interest in reasonable stability in the development and
redevelopment of the city for now and in the future, and that the regulations
are in the public interest and for the public good.
(Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 121.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Minnesota Statutes, Ch. 342, as may be amended from time to time.
   APPLICANT. An entity with a license or endorsement issued by the OCM that is
applying for an initial registration or for registration renewal.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. Has the same meaning as defined in M.S. § 342.01.
   CANNABIS RETAILER. A business with a cannabis retailer license or cannabis
retail endorsement from OCM.
   DAY CARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human
Services to provide the care of a child in a residence or other facility
outside the child's own home for gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any
part of a 24-hour day
   OCM. The Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management.
   PARK FEATURE. An attraction within a public park that is regularly used by
minors, including a playground or athletic field.
   POTENTIAL LICENSEE. An entity that has not received a license from the OCM
and is seeking a pre-license certification.
   RETAILER. Every business that is licensed under the Act and required to
register with the city under M.S. § 342.22. Includes cannabis businesses and
lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
   SCHOOL. A public school, as defined in M.S. § 120A.05, subd. 9, 11, 13, and
17, or a nonpublic school, or church or religious organization in which a child
is provided instruction in compliance with this section and M.S. § 120A.24, but
does not include a home school.
(Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 121.003 LOCAL GOVERNMENT AS A CANNABIS RETAILER.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 342.32, the City of Mounds View may establish, own, and
operate a municipal cannabis store. The municipal cannabis store shall be
subject to applicable cannabis retailer requirements as established by M.S. Ch.
342 and the rules adopted thereunder.
(Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 121.004 PRE-LICENSE CERTIFICATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   The City Administrator is authorized to certify whether a proposed
cannabis business complies with the city's zoning ordinances, this chapter, and
if applicable, with the State Fire Code and Building Code pursuant to M.S. §
342.13.
   (B)   Potential licensees are responsible for obtaining all necessary zoning
approvals prior to the city receiving the request for certification from the
OCM. If a potential licensee fails to obtain necessary zoning approvals prior
to the city receiving a request for certification, the city will inform the OCM
that the potential licensee does not meet zoning and land use laws. If, at the
time the city receives a request for zoning certification, there are no further
intended alterations to the building where the business is to be conducted, the
city will also certify compliance with Building and Fire Code regulations,
provided that the potential licensee has obtained inspections prior the city' s
receipt of a request for certification from the OCM. Building and Fire Code
inspections will be valid for one year from completion.
(Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 121.005 RETAILER REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Retail registration required. Before making retail sales to customers
or patients, a retailer must register with the city. Making retail sales to
customers or patients without an active registration is prohibited. Subject to
M.S. § 342.22, subd. 5(e), the city may impose a civil penalty, as specified in
the city's fee schedule, for making a sale to a customer or patient without a
valid registration from the city and a valid license from the OCM.
   (B)   Retail registration limits.
      (1)   The city will issue two cannabis retailer registrations pursuant to
this chapter, except that the city will not issue any registrations if there is
one registration per 12,500 residents in Ramsey County.
      (2)   The number of registrations available will be calculated by
dividing the state demographer's estimate of the city's population by 12,500
and rounding up to the nearest whole number.
      (3)   The city will update the number of registrations available based on
the most recent data available from the state's demographer.
      (4)   The number of registrations in the county will be based on the
number of registrations in the county on the day the application is received.
      (5)   If the number of registrations available within the city decreases
based on the county reaching the one per 12,500 threshold, businesses with
current registrations will be allowed to maintain and renew their registrations
but no new registration will be issued.
      (6)   Registrations issued to businesses with a license preapproval will
count toward the city's registration limit.
      (7)   Businesses operating under a tribal compact entered into under M.S.
§ 3.9224 or 3.9228 and tribally issued licenses and registrations are counted
towards the city's registration limit and the county registration limit.
      (8)   A municipal cannabis store within the City of Mounds View shall not
count towards the registration limit in this section.
   (C)   Processing registrations.
      (1)   Applications will be processed on a first-come, first-served basis
based on the city receiving a complete application. Applications will be
considered complete when all materials in division (D) below are received by
the city, including all required information and the fee described in division
(D)(5) below and as adopted in the city's fee schedule.
      (2)   The date a certification under this section is issued will have no
impact on the applicant's registration processing.
   (D)   Application. The applicant must submit a registration application or
renewal form provided by the city. The form may be amended from time to time by
the City Administrator, but must include or be accompanied by:
      (1)   Name of the property owner;
      (2)   Name of the applicant;
      (3)   Address and parcel ID for the property for which the registration
is sought;
      (4)   Certification that the applicant complies with the requirements of
this chapter;
      (5)   Fee required. At the time of initial application, and prior to the
city's consideration of any renewal application, each retailer must pay the
applicable fee as established in the city's fee schedule. Initial registration
fees and renewal registration fees are nonrefundable;
      (6)   Proof of taxes, assessments, utility charges or other financial
claims of the city or the state are current; and
      (7)   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM license
preapproval.
   (E)   Preliminary compliance check. Prior to issuing any retail
registration, the city shall conduct a preliminary compliance check to ensure
compliance with this chapter and any other regulations established pursuant to
M.S. § 342.13.
   (F)   Reasons for denial. The city shall not issue a registration or renewal
if any of the following conditions are true:
      (1)   The applicant has not submitted a complete application;
      (2)   The applicant does not comply with the requirements of this
chapter;
      (3)   The applicant does not comply with applicable zoning and land use
regulations;
      (4)   The applicant is found to not comply with the requirements of the
Act or this chapter at the preliminary compliance check;
      (5)   The applicant or property owner is not current on all property
taxes and assessments at the location where the retailer is located;
      (6)   The maximum number of registrations, pursuant to division (B)
above, have been issued by the city or within the county; or
      (7)   The applicant does not have a valid license from the OCM.
   (G)   Issuing the registration or renewal. The city shall issue the
registration or renewal if the retailer meets the requirements of this chapter,
including that none of the reasons for denial in division (F) above are true.
   (H)   Nontransferable. A registration is not transferable to another person,
entity, or location.
   (I)   Registration enforcement.
      (1)   Generally. The City Council may impose a fine or suspend a
registration under this chapter on a finding that the registered business has
failed to comply with the requirements of this chapter or any applicable
statute or regulation.
      (2)   Notice and right to hearing. Prior to imposing a fine or suspending
any registration under this chapter, the city shall provide the registered
business with written notice of the alleged violations and inform the
registered business of his or her right to a hearing on the alleged violation.
         (a)   Notice shall be delivered in person or by regular mail to the
address of the registered business and shall inform the registered business of
its right to a hearing. The notice will indicate that a response must be
submitted within ten business days of receipt of the notice, or the right to a
hearing will be waived.
         (b)   The registered business will be given an opportunity for a
hearing before the City Administrator before final action to fine or suspend a
registration, provided that the registered business has submitted a written
application for appeal within ten business days after the notice was served.
The City Administrator shall give due regard to the frequency and seriousness
of the violations, the ease with which such violations could have been cured or
avoided and good faith efforts to comply and shall issue a decision to fine or
suspend the registration only upon written findings. Within ten business days
of the City Administrator's order, the decision may be appealed to the City
Council.
         (c)   If no request for a hearing is received within ten business days
following the service of the notice, the matter shall be submitted to the City
Council for imposition of the fine or suspension of the registration.
      (3)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the city, a registered business
poses an imminent threat to the health or safety of the public, the city may
immediately suspend the registration and provide notice of the right to hold a
subsequent hearing as prescribed in this division (I).
      (4)   Reinstatement. The city may reinstate a registration if it
determines that the violations have been resolved. The city shall reinstate a
registration if the OCM determines the violations have been resolved.
(Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 121.006 COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   (A)   The city shall complete at minimum one compliance check per calendar
year of every registered business to assess if the business meets age
verification requirements, as required under the Act, and any applicable
cannabis or hemp regulations adopted by the city.
   (B)   Age verification compliance checks shall involve persons at least 17
years of age but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written consent of a
parent or guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt to purchase
adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products under the direct supervision of a
law enforcement officer or an employee of the city.
   (C)   Any failures under this section are a basis for enforcement action and
must be reported to the OCM.
(Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 121.007 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Cannabis retailers may only make retail sales of cannabis, cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products pursuant to the hours established in M.S. § 342.27, subd. 7(a).
(Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 121.008 DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city prohibits the establishment and operation of a cannabis
retailer within the following buffer zones:
      (1)   300 feet from a school;
      (2)   300 feet from a day care; and
      (3)   300 feet from an attraction with a park feature.
   (B)   The buffers in division (A) above will be measured from the potential
licensee's proposed business location based on the location of schools, day
cares, residential treatment facilities, and park features on the date the city
receives the request from the OCM for certification pursuant to § 121.004.
Buffer distances will be measured from the shortest line between the entrance
to the cannabis business and the structure consisting of the school, day care,
residential treatment facility, or park feature.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a cannabis business from
continuing to operate at the same location if a school, day care, residential
treatment facility, or park feature establishes within the buffer.
(Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 121.009 CANNABIS BUSINESS COMPLAINTS.
   The City Administrator is authorized to make complaints to the OCM related
to cannabis businesses the city believes is in violation of the Act or the
administrative rules adopted pursuant thereto. The City Administrator is also
authorized to file a complaint against a cannabis business that poses an
immediate threat to the health or safety of the public and request immediate
action by the OCM.
(Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 121.010 PENALTIES; ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as
defined by law. Each day each violation continues or exists, constitutes a
separate offense. Violations of this chapter can occur regardless of whether or
not a permit is required for a regulated activity listed in this chapter.
Violations of this Chapter may also be addressed under City Code § 130.002.
   (B)   Violation of this chapter shall be grounds for enforcement against any
business license issued by the City of Mounds View.
(Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 121.011 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MISDEMEANORS AND ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
      
131.   CURFEW
      
132.   SEX OFFENDER RESIDENCY
      
133.   USE OF CANNABIS AND HEMP PRODUCTS PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES
CHAPTER 130: MISDEMEANORS AND ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
Section
   
130.001   Misdemeanors
   
130.002   Administrative offenses
§ 130.001 MISDEMEANORS.
   The acts, types and causes of behavior enumerated in this section constitute
misdemeanors and are punishable as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. The following provisions and sections of
M.S. Ch. 609, the Criminal Code, as it may be amended from time to time, are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code as if fully set forth
herein:
   (A)   General principles.
      (1)   M.S. § 609.02, subd. 3, 4a, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10, Definitions;
      (2)   M.S. § 609.033, Increased Maximum Penalty for Misdemeanors;
      (3)   M.S. § 609.034, Increased Maximum Penalty for Ordinance Violations;
      (4)   M.S. § 609.05, Liability for Crimes of Another;
      (5)   M.S. § 609.06, Authorized Use of Force; and
      (6)   M.S. § 609.085, Sending Written Communication.
   (B)   Anticipatory crimes.
      (1)   M.S. § 609.17, Attempts; and
      (2)   M.S. § 609.175, Conspiracy.
   (C)   Crimes against the person.
      (1)   M.S. § 609.224, Assault - 5th Degree; and
      (2)   M.S. § 609.26, Depriving Another of Custodial or Parental Rights.
   (D)   Crimes of compulsion. M.S. § 609.28, Interfering with Religious
Observance;
   (E)   Sex crimes.
      (1)   M.S. § 609.321, Prostitution;
      (2)   M.S. § 609.324, Other Prohibited Acts; and
      (3)   M.S. § 609.34, Fornication and Lewd Conduct: willfully and lewdly
exposing of a person or the private parts thereof or procuring another to so
expose themselves and any open and gross lewdness or lascivious behavior or any
act of public indecency is unlawful.
   (F)   Crimes against the family.
      (1)   M.S. § 609.37, Definition; and
      (2)   M.S. § 609.375, Non-Support of Spouse or Child.
   (G)   Crimes against government. M.S. § 609.40, Flags;
   (H)   Crimes affecting public officer or employee.
      (1)   M.S. § 609.435, Officer Not Filing Security;
      (2)   M.S. § 609.45, Public Officer; Unauthorized Compensation; and
      (3)   M.S. § 609.475, Impersonating Officer.
   (I)   Crimes against the administration of justice.
      (1)   M.S. § 609.485, Escape from Custody;
      (2)   Flight to Avoid Arrest:
         (a)   Any person who has committed a misdemeanor in the presence of a
law enforcement officer or who is suspected of committing a felony and who
shall avoid arrest or who shall attempt to avoid arrest by flight shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
         (b)   Any person who has committed a misdemeanor in the presence of a
law enforcement officer or who is suspected of committing a felony and who
fails to cooperate with any law enforcement officer including the giving of
false information, particularly as to that person’s name, address, age or other
pertinent information shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   M.S. § 609.50, Obstructing Legal Process, Arrest or Firefighting;
      (4)   M.S. § 609.505, Falsely Reporting Crime;
      (5)   M.S. § 609.51, Simulating Legal Process; and
      (6)   M.S. § 609.515, Misconduct of Judicial or Hearing Officer.
   (J)   Theft and related crimes.
      (1)   M.S. § 609.52, Theft;
      (2)   M.S. § 609.525, Bringing Stolen Goods into State;
      (3)   M.S. § 609.53, Receiving Stolen Property;
      (4)   M.S. § 609.535, Issuance of Dishonored Checks;
      (5)   M.S. § 609.541, Protection of Library Property; and
      (6)   M.S. § 609.545, Misusing Credit Card to Secure Services.
   (K)   Damage or trespass to property.
      (1)   M.S. § 609.556, Definition;
      (2)   M.S. § 609.576, Negligent Fires; Dangerous Smoking;
      (3)   M.S. § 609.595, Damage to Property;
      (4)   M.S. § 609.605, Trespass;
      (5)   M.S. § 609.606, Unlawful Ouster or Exclusion; and
      (6)   M.S. § 609.615, Defeating Security on Realty.
   (L)   Forgery and related crimes. M.S. § 609.65, False Certification by
Notary Public;
   (M)   Crimes against public health and safety. The acts, types and causes of
behavior enumerated in this division (M) constitute misdemeanors and are
punishable as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances;
      (1)   Discharging or use of weapons.
         (a)   No person shall discharge a weapon in any public place in the
city, unless otherwise permitted by this division (M).
         (b)   No person shall carry, possess or display, in a manner intended
to cause bodily injury or cause fear of bodily injury, any edged object or
instrument such as a knife, sword, machete or any other device that is designed
to or is capable of cutting, slashing or stabbing or otherwise causing bodily
injury within the city.
         (c)   For the purpose of this division (M), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
            PUBLIC PLACE. Any place in the city, except: a person’s residence:
a person’s place of business if owned or managed by the person; a permitted gun
show; or a place of business permitted for the buying or selling of weapons.
            WEAPON. Includes:
               a.   Any “dangerous weapon”, as the same is defined by M.S. §
609.02, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time;
               b.   Any BB gun or any air gun or any air rifle or any air soft
gun or any other device that is designed to or is capable of firing or ejecting
any type of a projectile by any means; or
               c.   Any sling shot, wrist rocket, bow, crossbow or any other
device that is designed to or is capable of propelling any type of object by
any means.
         (d)   This section shall not prohibit the following: any law
enforcement officer, any member of the armed forces of the Minnesota National
Guard or of the United States of America, or any other person lawfully
permitted to possess a weapon, to the extent authorized by permit or law, from
discharging a weapon in the city pursuant to their official duty or as allowed
by their properly-issued permit.
      (2)   Lake or public swimming pool. It shall be unlawful for any person
to enter the water of any lake or public swimming pool within the limits of the
city between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
   (N)   Public misconduct or nuisance.
      (1)   M.S. § 609.705, Unlawful Assembly;
      (2)   M.S. § 609.715, Presence at Unlawful Assembly;
      (3)   M.S. § 609.72, Disorderly Conduct. Voluntarily entering the water
of any lake or public swimming pool within the limits of the municipality
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. or entering the water without
being garbed in a bathing suit sufficient to cover his or her person and equal
to the standards generally adopted and accepted by the public is hereby
declared to be disorderly conduct;
      (4)   M.S. § 609.735, Concealing Identity;
      (5)   M.S. § 609.74, Public Nuisance; and
      (6)   M.S. § 609.746, Interference with Privacy.
   (O)   Gambling.
      (1)   M.S. § 609.75, Gambling; Definitions; and
      (2)   M.S. § 609.755, Acts of or Relating to Gambling.
   (P)   Crimes against reputation. M.S. § 609.77, False Information to News
Media;
   (Q)   Crimes relating to communications.
      (1)   M.S. § 609.775, Divulging Telephone or Telegraph Message; Non-
Delivery;
      (2)   M.S. § 609.78, Emergency Telephone Calls and Communications;
      (3)   M.S. § 609.785, Fraudulent Long Distance Telephone Calls;
      (4)   M.S. § 609.79, Obscene or Harassing Telephone Calls;
      (5)   M.S. § 609.795, Letter, Telegram or Package; Opening; Harassment;
and
      (6)   M.S. § 609.80, Interfering with Cable Communications Systems.
   (R)   Crimes relating to business.
      (1)   M.S. § 609.805, Ticket Scalping;
      (2)   M.S. § 609.81, Misconduct of Pawnbrokers;
      (3)   M.S. § 609.815, Misconduct of Junk or Secondhand Dealer; and
      (4)   M.S. § 609.82, Fraud in Obtaining Credit.
(Prior Code, § 702.01) (Ord. 939, passed 02-26-2018; Ord. 953, passed 12-10-
2018)
§ 130.002 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES.
   (A)   Definition. An ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE is a violation of a section,
division, paragraph or provision of this code when one performs an act
prohibited, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited and is
subject to the penalty set forth in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances, and the schedule set forth hereafter.
   (B)   Misdemeanors and administrative offenses. Offenses that are declared
misdemeanors by this code may be charged as administrative offenses, at the
election of the city, when notice of violation is issued pursuant to division
(C) below and there is a scheduled penalty established herein.
   (C)   Notice of violation. Any member of the city’s Police Department and/or
any other person employed by the city with authority to enforce this code
shall, upon determining that there has been a violation, notify the violator or
person responsible for the violation or, in the case of a vehicular violation,
by attaching to the vehicle notice of the violation, the notice setting forth
the nature, date, time of the violation, the name of the official issuing the
notice and the amount of the scheduled initial penalty and, where applicable,
any charges relating thereto.
   (D)   Scheduled penalties; penalties imposed. Penalties shall be imposed for
a violation of the scheduled administrative offenses according to a schedule
established by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   Payment of fine; late charges.
      (1)   Once the notice is given, the person responsible for the violation
shall, within seven days of the time of issuance of the notice, pay full
satisfaction of the stated violation schedule to the city’s Finance Director.
      (2)   The penalty may be paid in person or by mail and payment shall be
admission of the violation.
      (3)   A late charge shall be imposed for each seven days the penalty
remains unpaid after the first seven-day period.
   (F)   Failure to pay; complaint; certification and hearing.
      (1)   If a violator fails to pay the penalty imposed, the City
Administrator may order the issuance of an ordinance complaint as authorized by
law, and the violation shall be processed as a crime by the county’s District
Court.
      (2)   Alternatively, subject to the requirements set forth herein, the
city may certify to the County Auditor any unpaid fees, penalties and charges
for a violation which shall then be collected together with property taxes
levied against the property. Prior to the certification, the city must attempt
to obtain voluntary payment of the fees, penalties and charges as provided in
this section and allow the property owner the opportunity to request
certification to the property taxes as a method of payment. A fee, penalty or
charge may be certified to the Auditor only if, at least 30 days prior to
imposing the certification, the city has given written notice to the property
owner listed on the official tax records of its intention to certify the
penalty or charge to the Auditor. Property owners notified by the city for the
purpose stated herein have the right to request a hearing before the City
Council or a neutral third party. Only fees, penalties and charges directly
related to the property being assessed may be assessed through the manner set
forth in this section.
      (3)   This section is in addition to any other law authorizing the
collection of unpaid fees, penalties and charges.
   (G)   Hearing on administrative offense violation.
      (1)   Request for hearing. Any person aggrieved by this section as to an
administrative offense violation may request, within seven days of the time of
issuance of the notice, to be heard by the Hearing Officer who shall hear and
determine the grievance.
      (2)   Hearing Officer. The City Administrator shall be the Hearing
Officer, and the City Administrator or a designee is authorized to hear or
determine a case or controversy relative to this section. The Hearing Officer
is not a judicial officer and is a public officer as defined by M.S. § 609.415,
as it may be amended from time to time, and subject to state statutes relating
to public officers.
      (3)   Determination of case. The Hearing Officer shall have the authority
to dismiss the violation for cause, reduce or waive the penalty upon the terms
and conditions as can be agreed upon by the parties; however, reasons for the
dispositions shall be stated, in writing, by the Hearing Officer. If the
violation is sustained by the Hearing Officer, the violator shall pay
satisfaction of the penalty or shall sign an agreement to pay upon such terms
and conditions as set forth by the Hearing Officer.
   (H)   Administration.
      (1)   Enforcement of provisions. In addition to all other duties set
forth in the code and the Home Rule Charter, the City Administrator may
delegate and supervise the work of any city employees implementing and
administering this section. The City Administrator shall make and have custody
of all records necessary and shall keep proper accounts of the proceeds
received.
      (2)   Disposition of penalties. All penalties collected shall be paid
over to the city’s Finance Director. The City Administrator may receive
negotiable instruments in payment of penalties as conditional payment and shall
not be held accountable therefor. Receipt shall be issued for cash payments.
(Prior Code, § 702.02) (Ord. 823, passed 07-02-2009; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010)
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.001   Curfew for minors
   
131.002   Duties of parents and guardians
   
131.003   Minors in amusement places
 
   
131.999   Penalty
§ 131.001 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or humanmade calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT or REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years and 17 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work;
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion;
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence; and/or
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Prior Code, § 703.01) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.002 DUTIES OF PARENTS AND GUARDIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having
charge of a minor under the age of 18 years to permit the minor to loiter,
idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads,
alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, places and public
buildings, places of entertainment and amusement, vacant lots and other
unsupervised places in the city during the hours prohibited by this chapter;
provided, however, that, the provisions of this section do not apply when the
minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of the minor, where the minor is upon an emergency
errand or legitimate business directed by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having the care and custody of the minor or where the presence of
the minor in the place is connected with and required by some legitimate
business, trade, profession or occupation in which the minor is permitted, by
law, to be engaged.
(Prior Code, § 703.01) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.003 MINORS IN AMUSEMENT PLACES.
   No person operating or in charge of any place of amusement, entertainment or
refreshment shall permit any minor under the age of 18 years to remain in the
place during the hours prohibited by this chapter; provided, however, that, the
provisions of this chapter shall not apply when the minor is accompanied by his
or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of
the minor.
(Prior Code, § 703.01) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 703.01)
CHAPTER 132: SEX OFFENDER RESIDENCY
Section
   
132.001   Findings of fact; statement of purpose
   
132.002   Definitions
   
132.003   Prohibited acts
   
132.004   Measurement of distance
   
132.005   Exceptions
 
   
132.999   Penalty
§ 132.001 FINDINGS OF FACT; STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds the following facts to exist:
   (A)   Individuals who have been required to register as sex offenders
pursuant to state law present an extreme threat to the public safety;
   (B)   These offenders are likely to use physical violence and to repeat
their offenses;
   (C)   Many of these offenders also commit other crimes;
   (D)   The city has a compelling interest to take action to promote and
protect certain areas within the city from the risks to public safety posed by
registered offenders;
   (E)   The city’s compelling interest is furthered by the creation of a
regulatory scheme which establishes areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers; and
   (F)   The purpose of this chapter is to create a regulatory scheme to
further the city’s compelling interest in maintaining public safety by
prescribing where registered offenders may reside within the city.
(Ord. 930, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 132.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILDREN. Persons age 16 and younger.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A facility licensed by the state in which care, supervision
and training for children is provided for part of a 24-hour period.
   DESIGNATED OFFENDER. Any person who has been convicted of a designated
sexual offense, regardless of whether adjudication has been withheld, in which
the victim of the offense was less than 16 years of age, or who is categorized
as a Level III sex offender under M.S. § 244.052, as it may be amended from
time to time, or successor statute.
   DESIGNATED SEXUAL OFFENSE. A conviction, adjudication of delinquency,
commitment under M.S. Ch. 253B, as it may be amended from time to time, or
admission of guilt under oath without adjudication involving any of the
following offenses: M.S. §§ 609.342, 609.343, 609.344, 609.345, 609.352,
609.365, 617.23, 617.246, 617.247, 617.293, as they may be amended from time to
time, successor statutes or a similar offense from another state.
   PARK or PLAYGROUND. Any land, including improvements, operated by the city
or school district for the use by the general public as a recreational area.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges or resides for
14 or more consecutive days.
   SCHOOL. Any public, private or parochial educational institution that offers
educational instruction to individuals under the age of 18.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges or resides for
a period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year, and
which is not the person’s permanent address or a place where the person
routinely abides, lodges or resides for a period of four or more consecutive or
non-consecutive days in any month, and which is not the person’s permanent
residence.
(Ord. 930, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 132.003 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Residence requirements. No designated offender may establish a
permanent or temporary residence within 1,000 feet of any school, licensed day
care center, place of worship that provides regular educational programs, parks
or playgrounds.
   (B)   Rental of property to designated offenders prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful to let or rent any place, structure or part thereof,
trailer or other dwelling, with the knowledge that it will be used as a
permanent residence or temporary residence by any person prohibited from
establishing permanent residence or temporary residence pursuant to this
section, if the place, structure or part thereof, trailer or other dwelling, is
located within a prohibited location zone described in division (A) above.
      (2)   If a property owner discovers or is informed that a tenant is a
designated offender after signing a lease or otherwise agreeing to let the
offender reside on the property, the owner or property manager should take
measures to terminate the lease or to evict the offender.
      (3)   A property owner’s failure to comply with provisions of this
section shall constitute a violation of this section, and shall subject the
property owner to the enforcement provisions and procedures as provided in this
section and the city code.
(Ord. 930, passed 12-12-2016) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.004 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the requirement
shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer property line of
the permanent residence or temporary residence to nearest outer property line
of the applicable prohibited location. The City Administrator shall maintain an
official map showing prohibited locations, as defined by this section. The City
Administrator shall update the map at least annually to reflect any changes in
the location of prohibited zones.
(Ord. 930, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 132.005 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A designated offender residing within a prohibited area as described
in §
132.003(A) of this chapter does not commit a violation of this chapter if any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The person established the permanent residence or temporary
residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166
and 243.167, as they may be amended from time to time, or successor statute,
prior to 01-22-2017;
      (2)   The school, place of worship, park or day care center within 1,000
feet of the person’s permanent residence was designated or opened after the
person established the permanent residence or temporary residence and reported
and registered the residence pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166 or 243.167, as they
may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   The residence is a property owned or operated by the state’s
Department of Corrections or the Federal Bureau of Prisons; or
      (4)   The person’s conviction for the designated offense was reversed on
appeal.
   (B)   Nothing in this provision shall require any person to sell or
otherwise dispose of any real property acquired or owned prior to the
conviction restricting residency under this section.
(Ord. 930, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 132.999 PENALTY.
   A person who violates this chapter may be punished by a fine not exceeding
$1,000, or by confinement for a term not exceeding 90 days, or by both the fine
and confinement. Each day a person maintains a residence in violation of this
chapter constitutes a separate violation. Additionally, the city may seek a
court order to enjoin any person in violation of this chapter from taking any
prohibited action hereunder.
(Ord. 930, passed 12-12-2016)
CHAPTER 133: USE OF CANNABIS AND HEMP PRODUCTS PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
133.001   Definitions
   
133.002   Use of cannabis and hemp prohibited in public places
   
133.003   Medical cannabinoid exemption
§ 133.001 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, the terms CANNABIS FLOWER, CANNABIS
PRODUCTS, LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES, and HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS shall
have the definitions given to them in M.S. § 342.01, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (B)   (1)   For purposes of this chapter, PUBLIC PLACE is defined as: (i)
property owned, leased, or controlled by a governmental unit, including the
city, and includes but is not limited to: city buildings and all the land
thereon, parking lots, parks, pathways and trails, and city rights-of- way
consisting of both the traveled portion and the abutting boulevard, sidewalks
and trails; and (ii) any indoor or outdoor area that is used or held out for
use by the public whether owned or operated by public or private interests that
is within 1,000 feet of a school, or 500 feet of a day care, a state licensed
residential treatment facility, or a public park. Day care shall include: adult
day care, group family day care, group nursery day care, and home day care as
defined in §
160.012.
      (2)   The definition of PUBLIC PLACE does not include:
         (a)   A private residence, including the person’s curtilage or yard;
         (b)   Private property not generally accessible to the public, unless
the person is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower, cannabis
products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products on the
property by the owner of the property; or
         (c)   The premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit on-
site consumption.
(Ord. 1007, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 133.002 USE OF CANNABIS AND HEMP PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place. A violation of
this section shall be considered a petty misdemeanor notwithstanding any other
penalty provision in the city code, and the City Council may establish a
corresponding fine in its fee schedule for violations of this section.
(Ord. 1007, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 133.003 MEDICAL CANNABINOID EXEMPTION.
   Use of a medical cannabinoid product, as defined in M.S. § 342.01, that
meets all requirements under applicable law, by a patient enrolled and
registered in the medical cannabis program, is not subject to the prohibition
contained in §
133.002. This exemption does not apply to the smoking or vaporizing of medical
cannabinoid products, as defined in M.S. § 342.01, in public places.
(Ord. 1007, passed 9-11-2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
153.   TREES
      
154.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
155.   SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT CONTROL
      
156.   CONSTRUCTION SITE AND LAND DISTURBANCE RUNOFF CONTROL
      
157.   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
      
158.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
159.   WETLAND ZONING
      
160.   ZONING
      
161.   SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
      
162.   SWIMMING POOLS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Code
   
150.001   Adoption of State Building Code
   
150.002   Application, administration and enforcement
   
150.003   Building permits and fees
   
150.004   Expiration of permits
   
150.005   Stop work orders
   
150.006   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.007   Temporary certificate of occupancy
   
150.008   Plumbing permit administration, plan review, and inspections
Building Numbers
   
150.020   Purpose and scope
   
150.021   Numbers required
   
150.022   Number changes
Building Relocation
   
150.035   Moving buildings into city
   
150.036   Compliance with Building Code provisions
   
150.037   Moving buildings through city
Development Controls; Permits and Fees
   
150.050   Permit requirements
   
150.051   Permit fees and expenses
   
150.052   Permit extensions
   
150.053   Licensing provisions
   
150.054   Development controls
Fire Code
   
150.065   Adoption of state codes
   
150.066   Local fire regulations
   
150.067   Enforcement
   
150.068   Permit fees
   
150.069   Appeals Board
   
150.070   Minor possession of ignition devices prohibited
   
150.071   Residential alarm verification
   
150.072   Expiration of fire permits
   
150.073   Stop work orders
Housing Code
   
150.085   Adoption of International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.086   Local amendments
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.001 ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The most current edition of the State Building Code and related
documents, as adopted by the state’s Department of Labor and Industry pursuant
to state statutes, including all of the amendments, rules and regulations
established, adopted and published from time to time by the state’s Department
of Labor and Industry, through the Construction Codes and Licensing Division,
is hereby adopted by reference including Ch. 1306 with optional § 1306.00200,
subpart 2. The state’s Building Code is hereby incorporated in this section as
if fully set out herein. A copy of the Building Code is on file in the office
of the City Administrator.
   (B)   Effective 07-01-1972, all buildings within the city shall be regulated
by current state statutes, as amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01) (Ord. 343, passed 06-27-1983; Ord. 521, passed 11-23-
1992; Ord. 715, passed 05-27-2003; Ord. 795, passed 08-27-2007; Ord. 844,
passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 853, passed 02-03-2011; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-2019)
§ 150.002 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall be in
accordance with the state’s Building Code. The state’s Certified Building
Official designated by city to administer the code shall enforce this code.
(Prior Code, § 1001.02) (Ord. 715, passed 05-27-2003)
§ 150.003 BUILDING PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   The issuance of building permits and the collection of fees shall be
as authorized in state statutes.
   (B)   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the city’s approved fee schedule.
   (C)   In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued
for work governed by this code in accordance with state statutes.
   (D)   The permit fee does not include the cost of any outside expenses the
city may incur related to the review, inspection or enforcement of the permit,
such as those for soil test, planning, legal or engineering consultants.
   (E)   The owner or agent shall make payment for all such expenses when
billed therefor by the city.
(Prior Code, § 1001.03) (Ord. 715, passed 05-27-2003; Ord. 853, passed 02-03-
2011)
§ 150.004 EXPIRATION OF PERMITS.
   Building permits will expire in accordance with the state’s Building Code
unless otherwise specified under §§
150.050 through
150.054 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1001.04) (Ord. 715, passed 05-27-2003; Ord. 853, passed 02-03-
2011)
§ 150.005 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   Whenever any building work is being done contrary to the provisions of the
Building Code or the city code, the Building Official may order the work
stopped by notice, in writing, served on any persons engaged in doing or
causing the work to be done, and any person shall forthwith stop the work until
authorized by the Building Official to proceed with the work.
(Prior Code, § 1001.05) (Ord. 715, passed 05-27-2003; Ord. 853, passed 02-03-
2011)
§ 150.006 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Residential certificate of occupancy shall be granted upon completion
of work and final approval by the Building Official.
   (B)   Commercial certificate of occupancy shall be granted in conjunction
with the Fire and Building Code Officials only after a fire inspection has been
conducted and approved when the business is completely moved in and ready to
operate.
   (C)   The exterior of any building shall be completed prior to occupancy of
that building.
(Prior Code, § 1001.07) (Ord. 715, passed 05-27-2003)
§ 150.007 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be granted prior to sodding or
seeding the lawn and finishing the driveway if approved by the Building
Official.
(Prior Code, § 1001.08) (Ord. 715, passed 05-27-2003; Ord. 853, passed 02-03-
2011; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-2019)
§ 150.008 PLUMBING PERMIT ADMINISTRATION, PLAN REVIEW, AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All plumbing on private property within the city must comply with the
provisions of the state building and plumbing code and this section.
   (B)   The city is authorized to enforce and administer the Minnesota
Plumbing Code in accordance with M.S. § 326B.121.
   (C)   Plans and specifications. Prior to the installation of a system of
plumbing other than for a single-family dwelling, complete plans and
specifications, together with any additional information that the Building
Official may require, must be submitted and reviewed by the Building Official
or their designee prior to permits and installation. Construction cannot
proceed except in accordance with approved plans and specifications. Any
alteration, extension, or repair of an existing system is subject to these same
requirements, unless waived by the Building Official in accordance with Minn.
Rules, part 1300.0215.
   (D)   Exceptions. Pursuant to M.S. § 326B.43, subd. 2(n), plumbing plans and
specifications for the following projects must be submitted to the Minnesota
Department of Labor and Industry for a full plan review:
      (1)   State-licensed facilities as defined in M.S. § 326B.103, subd. 13;
      (2)   Public buildings as defined in M.S. § 326B.103, subd. 11; and
      (3)   Projects of a special nature for which department review is
requested by either the municipality or the state.
   (E)   Inspections. New plumbing systems or parts of existing plumbing
systems that have been altered, extended, or repaired shall be inspected,
tested, and approved by the Building Official or their designee in accordance
with Minn. Rules, part 1300.0215 before the plumbing system is put into use.
The Building Official shall perform the final inspection and witness the test.
The Building Official shall approve the plumbing system if the system complies
with the requirements of this code, any permit requirements, and the
requirements of any approved plans and specifications. Plumbing system tests
shall comply with Minn. Rules, Ch. 4714.
   (F)   Covering of work. No building drainage or plumbing system or part
thereof shall be covered until it has been inspected, tested, and approved as
herein prescribed.
(Ord. 1010, passed 11-13-2023)
BUILDING NUMBERS
§ 150.020 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter are adopted to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare of the people. It establishes the rules and
regulations relative to a uniform system of addresses and house and building
numbers within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 903.01)
§ 150.021 NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   Every house and building located within the municipality shall have posted
on it address numbers as assigned by the municipal staff. The numbers shall be
so placed on the house or building so that they are easily discernible from the
street, highway or roadway servicing the structure. Additional corresponding
numbers may be placed on the mailbox servicing the structure or such other
device that conforms to the provisions of the code. When possible, the numbers
posted on the structure should be of material or within a lighted area so that
the numbers can be easily ascertained in the darkness.
(Prior Code, § 903.02) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.022 NUMBER CHANGES.
   (A)   Procedures.
      (1)   Whenever it has been deemed to be in the public interest to order
address or house and building number changes, the Council shall, after a public
hearing, order such changes by the adoption of an ordinance.
      (2)   The public hearing shall be held at a time and upon a notice as the
Council may determine.
   (B)   Execution of changes. Whenever the Council, by appropriate action,
orders the change of an address or number of a house or building, the owner,
tenant, manager or caretaker of the premises shall execute the change required,
at no expense to the municipality, within 30 days from the effective date of
the change.
(Prior Code, § 903.03) (Ord. 571, passed 01-08-1996)
BUILDING RELOCATION
§ 150.035 MOVING BUILDINGS INTO CITY.
   No person shall move a building into the city without first having obtained
the necessary permits from the city.
(Prior Code, § 1007.01) (Ord. 853, passed 02-03-2011) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.036 COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING CODE PROVISIONS.
   All of the provisions of §§
150.001 through
150.007 and
150.050 through
150.054 of this chapter will be applicable to any building being moved into the
city.
   (A)   Building permit required. Buildings larger than 200 square feet must
meet the provisions of the state’s Building Code and the owner or agent shall
obtain a building permit from the city’s Building Official.
   (B)   Zoning permit required. Buildings 200 square feet or less are exempt
from the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1007.02) (Ord. 853, passed 02-03-2011; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-
2019)
§ 150.037 MOVING BUILDINGS THROUGH CITY.
   (A)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   Permit required. No person shall move any building larger than 200
square feet on, through or over any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
place in the city without first having obtained a right-of-way permit from the
Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation.
      (2)   Application for permit. Applications shall state thereon the
proposed route and the number of days it is intended that the building shall
occupy any portion of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place.
      (3)   Permit fees. Upon the approval of the intended route, a fee as
determined by the city for each day or fraction thereof that it is intended
that the building shall occupy any such portion of any such public place shall
be paid and the permit issued. An additional payment as determined by the city
for each day or fraction thereof over and above the time stated on the permit,
during which any building shall occupy any such public place, shall be paid.
   (B)   Procedures for moving buildings.
      (1)   Lights and warning devices.
         (a)   Whenever a street or alley is blocked by a house or structure
which is being moved, warnings to that effect shall be placed by the Department
of Public Works/Parks and Recreation so as to warn vehicles and persons from
entering that portion of the street which is so blocked.
         (b)   The person moving any building through the streets shall keep
warning signs and lanterns or lights at night on the building so as to guard
against any person or vehicle from colliding with it.
      (2)   Utility wires or cables. Whenever it shall be necessary to
interfere with wires or cables of a public utility in moving a building, the
terms of any special or franchise ordinance governing shall apply and the bond
therein specified shall be given.
(Prior Code, § 1007.03) (Ord. 853, passed 02-03-2011) Penalty, see §
150.999
DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS;
PERMITS AND FEES
§ 150.050 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Building permit required.
      (1)   Before proceeding with the construction, enlargement, alteration,
repair, moving, improvement, removal, conversion or demolition of any part of
any building or structure, the owner or agent shall first obtain a building
permit for such purpose from the city’s Building Official.
      (2)   Exceptions. The city does not require a building permit for the
work specified as being exempt from permits in the state’s Building Code.
   (B)   Zoning permit required. Before proceeding with an alteration or
improvement that is not regulated under the state’s Building Code or as
specified in division (C)(2) below, for any part of any structure or building
onto any land that may or may not impact the surface drainage system of the
city, the owner or agent shall first obtain a zoning permit for such purpose
from the city.
   (C)   Types of work requiring a permit.
      (1)   Building permit. General building construction and improvements as
specified in the state’s Building Code and related documents as adopted by the
state’s Department of Labor and Industry.
      (2)   Zoning permit.
         (a)   Television and radio antenna exceeding 20 feet above roof;
         (b)   Dumpster enclosure;
         (c)   Driveway, parking lot, parking area, patio or sidewalk;
         (d)   Kennel;
         (e)   Signs;
         (f)   Accessory building 200 square feet and under;
         (g)   Deck or platform not attached to primary structure and/or 30
inches high or under;
         (h)   Fences seven feet high or under;
         (i)   Retaining wall two feet to four feet high; and
         (j)   Satellite dish greater than three feet in diameter.
      (3)   Electrical work.
         (a)    Before commencing installation of electrical work regulated by
this section, a permit shall be obtained from the city’s Building Official and
the fee for such permit paid as set forth in the city’s fee schedule.
         (b)   An electrical inspector designated by the city shall be a
licensed master or journeyman electrician as defined under state statutes, and
shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of the National Electrical
Code as directed by the city’s Building Official.
         (c)   The city’s designated electrical inspector shall, if applicable,
inspect and approve all electrical work before city approval of the final
building inspection and before the city issues a certificate of occupancy.
         (d)   No permit shall be required for electrical installations of
equipment owned, leased, operated or maintained by a public service corporation
that it uses in the performance of its function as a utility, except that the
electrical installation shall conform to the minimum standards of the National
Electrical Safety Code.
(Prior Code, § 1006.01) (Ord. 508, passed 04-27-1992; Ord. 853, passed 02-03-
2011; Ord. 1015, passed 8-26-2024)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.051 PERMIT FEES AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   Payment of fees and expenses. A permit fee, per the city’s approved
fee schedule, shall be paid to the city before the issuance of any permit
herein prescribed. The permit fee does not include the cost of any outside
expenses the city may incur related to the review, inspection or enforcement of
the permit, such as those for soil test, planning, legal or engineering
consultants. The owner or agent shall make payment for all such expenses when
billed therefor by the city.
   (B)   Work without permit. Should any person begin work of any kind such as
hereinafter set forth or for which a permit from the city is required by the
Building Code or the city code without having first secured the necessary
permit from the city that person shall be subject to a special investigation
and fees as per the city’s approved fee schedule.
   (C)   Building and construction valuation. Building valuation, for the
purpose of establishing building permit fees, shall be as adopted by the City
Council by resolution and may be amended from time to time. Valuation for
alterations, repairs or extensions shall be determined by the Building Official
based on the Building Official’s estimate of the materials cost and the labor
cost to put the construction in place.
   (D)   Permit and application fee refunds. The city may refund building
permit fees for work that has not commenced within 180 days of the city issuing
the permit. The city will not make any fee refunds after 180 days of the city
issuing the permit. All persons requesting a refund shall make the refund
request in writing. The city will reimburse the paid fees to the person or
party that made the initial payment unless the Building Official authorizes the
payment to another person or party. The city will not refund the plan check fee
if the city has performed a plan check. The city shall not refund state
surcharges or fees that the city has reported to the state.
(Prior Code, § 1006.02) (Ord. 508, passed 04-27-1992; Ord. 853, passed 02-03-
2011)
§ 150.052 PERMIT EXTENSIONS.
   If the work for which a permit was issued does not commence within 180 days
or if the work is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days, the permit
shall be considered void and invalid. The Building Official may grant, in
writing, extensions for periods not more than 180 days each. The extension
shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated. The decision
of the Building Official may be appealed to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1006.03) (Ord. 508, passed 04-27-1992; Ord. 715, passed 05-27-
2003)
§ 150.053 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   License required. Before any person shall engage in the business of
doing or performing any of the work set forth in division (B) below in the
city, the person shall first obtain a city license to do so as more fully
provided for in this subchapter. A city license shall not be required if the
person is licensed with the state and if the license is valid for the work
being performed in the city. A fee for checking the status of the state-issued
license may be charged and will be per the city’s approved fee schedule.
   (B)   Work requiring city license.
      (1)   Specialty contractor (may perform only one activity listed):
excavation, masonry including cement, footings, masonry fireplaces and walls;
carpentry including doors, windows, decks without footings and hanging wall
board-no taping; interior finishing including insulation, vapor barrier and
prefab stairs; drywall including plaster, lathing and wallboard; exterior
finishing including siding, gutters, soffit and fascia; garage doors; swimming
pools including spas and hot tubs; asphalt; demolition/wrecking;
      (2)   General commercial contractor: commercial and residential
contracting (over four units), includes all contracting work (separate license
required for HVAC work and excludes any state licensing requirements);
      (3)   Zoning contractor: fence, sign, shed (200 square feet or under),
retaining wall (two feet to four feet high); building mover (buildings 200
square feet or under); satellite dish (greater than three feet in diameter);
residential antenna;
      (4)   HVAC contractor: fireplace/stove installer; heating, air
conditioning, ventilation, gas piping;
      (5)   Tree contractor: tree trimming and removal; and
      (6)   Fire specialty contractor: above ground tank installation and
removal; special fire suppression systems; temporary tents; canopies and
membrane structure installation.
   (C)   Requirements for license. Each applicant for a license to perform work
in the city shall provide the city with the necessary information to process
the license request and shall perform the work in accordance with all city
ordinances and the state’s Building Code.
   (D)   Application and fees. Application for licenses shall be filed with the
City Administrator on the forms furnished by the city. The annual fee for each
license shall be as established per the city’s approved fee schedule.
   (E)   General commercial contractors. A city license granted to a general
commercial contractor shall include the right to perform all work included in
the general contract, but shall exclude any work that requires a separate
license issued by the state. The license shall include any or all of the
persons performing the work under the general contract; providing that, each
person performing the work is in the regular employ of the general contractor
and qualified under state law and the provisions of this code to perform the
work. In these cases, the general contractor shall be responsible for all of
the work so performed. Subcontractors, who are persons not in the regular
employ of a general contractor, shall be required to meet the sections of this
code pertaining to license and insurance qualifications for the subcontractor’s
particular type of work.
   (F)   Insurance. Any person requesting a contractor’s license shall file
with the City Administrator proof of public liability and property damage
insurance showing the city as the certificate holder, which shall remain and be
in force and effect during the entire term of the license or a renewal
certificate shall be provided to the city at least ten days before the
expiration of the certificate on file with the city. The certificate shall
contain a provision that the insurance shall not be cancelled without ten days’
written notice to the city. Public liability insurance should not be less than
$1,000,000 for injuries and property damage, including accidental death to any
one person, in an amount of not less than $500,000 on account of any one
accident.
   (G)   Expiration and renewal. All licenses shall expire on December 31
following the date of issuance unless sooner revoked or forfeited. If a license
granted hereunder is not renewed previous to its expiration, then all rights
granted by the license shall cease, and any work performed after the expiration
of the license shall be in violation of this code.
   (H)   Revocation or suspension.
      (1)   Authority of Council. The Council shall have the power to suspend
or revoke the city license of any person licensed under the regulations of this
code whose work is found to be improper or defective or so unsafe as to
jeopardize life or property, providing the person holding the license is given
20 days’ notice and granted the opportunity to be heard before the action is
taken. If and when such notice is sent to the address of the licensee as stated
on the application and applicant fails or refuses to appear or respond at the
hearing, the license will be automatically suspended or revoked.
      (2)   Suspension. A city contractor’s license suspension shall be not
less than 30 days, nor more than one year, the period being determined by the
Council.
      (4)   Second offense. When any person holding a city contractor’s license
as provided herein has been convicted for the second time by a court of
competent jurisdiction for violation of any of the provisions of this code, the
city shall automatically revoke the license of the person so convicted. The
person may not make application to the city for a new license for a period of
one year.
(Prior Code, § 1006.04) (Ord. 500, passed 01-13-1992; Ord. 628, passed 06-28-
1999; Ord. 715, passed 05-27-2003; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 853,
passed 02-03-2011; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-2019)
§ 150.054 DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent and purpose of this section to provide for
orderly development of land to safeguard life, health, safety, property and
public welfare by regulating and controlling all development within the city.
This section shall be in addition to the requirements of any other provisions
of the city code regulating the development.
   (B)   Application of development controls. All new construction and
expansions of existing construction shall be reviewed by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and approved by the City Council as conforming to this
section, except as follows:
      (1)   Single- or two-family dwelling units;
      (2)   Accessory structures that meet the requirements of the applicable
zoning district; and
      (3)   Construction activity that increases the gross square footage of
the principal building by less than 10%; provided, the area of expansion does
not exceed 10,000 square feet.
   (C)   Development plan. The owner or developer shall submit for city review
a development plan that shows proposed plans for utility service, surface water
drainage consistent with the most recently adopted Local Surface Water
Management Plan, subject to subsequent revisions, erosion and sediment control
consistent with current city standards, streets, driveways, trails, parking,
landscaping, screening and buffering, lighting, setbacks, exterior construction
design and materials, trash disposal, construction timetable and such other
matters as the Council may require.
   (D)   Development agreement.
      (1)   A development agreement that sets forth all of the terms,
conditions, requirements, agreements, guarantees and plans for the orderly
development of the land shall be entered into between the developer and the
city before the final approval of any subdivision, or project that qualifies
for a development review, as determined by division (B) above. This requirement
may be waived by the City Council in the event no public improvements are
planned or proposed.
      (2)   The development agreement shall include provisions for supervision
of details of construction by the city and grant to the city authority to
inspect all work performed pursuant to the contract to assure satisfactory
performance and completion of the work.
(Prior Code, § 1006.04)
   (E)   Certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   No building or structure can be used or occupied, and no change in
the existing occupancy classification of a building, structure or portion of a
building or structure can be made until the building official has issued a
certificate of occupancy for the building or structure. Issuance of a
certificate of occupancy is not approval of a violation of the code or
ordinances. Occupancy may be granted by the Building Official upon receipt of
an escrow from the applicant prior to completion of the following items:
         (a)   Seed/sod;
         (b)   As-built grading survey (covers grading and survey completion);
         (c)   Driveway;
         (d)   Curb cut for new driveway and removal/replacement of old curb
cut;
         (e)   Control of site erosion;
         (f)   Removal of debris including site clearing, construction,
existing structures and the like;
         (g)   Storm water management/drainage features; and
         (h)   Any other items as determined by the Building Official.
      (2)   The escrow amount collected shall be in an amount established by
resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 508, passed 04-27-1992; Ord. 692, passed 03-25-2002; Ord. 853, passed 02-
03-2011; Ord. 916, passed 05-23-2016)
FIRE CODE
§ 150.065 ADOPTION OF STATE CODES.
   The most current edition of the state’s Fire Code, being Minn. Rules Ch.
7511, as adopted by the Commissioner of Public Safety pursuant to state
statutes, including all the amendments, rules and regulations established,
adopted and published from time to time by the state’s Commissioner of Public
Safety, through the state’s Fire Marshal Division, is hereby adopted by
reference. The state’s Fire Code is hereby incorporated in this section as if
fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 1002.01) (Ord. 496, passed 11-12-1991; Ord. 715, passed 05-27-
2003; Ord. 853, passed 02-03-2011; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-2019)
§ 150.066 LOCAL FIRE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The state’s Fire Code provides the local Fire Chief ability to adopt
local fire regulations. The Fire Chief may amend these regulations from time to
time as needed. Copies of the regulations are available at City Hall or the
Fire Department.
   (B)   In addition, the City Council has adopted the following regulations
pertaining to recreational fires in the city.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         CHIMENEA. A free-standing front loading fireplace or oven with a
bulbous body and usually a vertical smoke vent or chimney.
         MANUFACTURED FREE- STANDING PIT. A chimenea or other movable device or
container designed, marketed and manufactured for the purpose of containing a
fire for cooking or recreational purposes.
         RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire maintained within an outdoor fireplace, fire
pit, fire ring, chimenea or other manufactured free-standing pit, for pleasure,
religious, ceremonial, cooking or similar purpose.
      (2)   Allowed fires. Recreation fires are allowed under the following
conditions.
         (a)   Only natural, clean, dry firewood, cut in short lengths less
than two feet may be burned.
         (b)   The fire must be contained within an in-ground fire pit, fire
ring, fireplace or manufactured free-standing pit not exceeding three feet in
diameter. The fire shall be limited in fuel such that at no time does the flame
height exceed two feet. The outside edge of in-ground fire pits shall be ringed
with approved metal, brick or rock.
         (c)   All fire rings or pits must be located a minimum of 25 feet away
from any structures or combustibles, such as houses, garages, sheds, wood piles
and wooden fences. Manufactured free-standing pits must be located a minimum of
15 feet away from any structures or combustibles, such as houses, garages,
sheds, wood piles and wooden fences. In addition, fire pits, rings or
manufactured free-standing devices shall be set back at least 15 feet from any
property line.
         (d)   The fire must be constantly attended and supervised by an adult
until the fire has been completely extinguished.
         (e)   A charged garden hose or other means to extinguish the fire must
be readily available.
      (3)   Restrictions and limitations.
         (a)   Recreational fires are not allowed when wind speeds exceed ten
mph or when the smoke may create a nuisance or be offensive to others.
         (b)   Recreational fires are not allowed on commercial or industrial
sites, or on sites with construction activities.
         (c)   The open burning of lumber, pallets, wooden shingles, scrap
wood, brush, tree trimmings, leaves, yard waste, cardboard, paper, garbage,
plastic, rubber or any other material not constituting natural, dry, clean
firewood, is prohibited.
         (d)   Recreational fires are not permitted when the designated fire
official or the state’s Department of Natural Resources (DNR) has officially
declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire conditions or when the
state’s Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) has declared an air quality alert.
         (e)   The use of flammable or combustible liquid accelerants is
prohibited.
      (4)   Enforcement.
         (a)   When the smoke from a recreational fire is offensive to
neighbors or to others in the vicinity, or if the burning is determined to
constitute a hazardous condition, the city authorizes Police and Fire
Department officers to require the fire be immediately extinguished and
discontinued.
         (b)   In addition to division (B)(4)(a) above, a property owner and/or
the responsible party may be cited for violations of this section, in
accordance with §
150.999 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1002.02) (Ord. 681, passed 05-29-2001; Ord. 715, passed 05-27-
2003; Ord. 852, passed 10-21-2010; Ord. 968, passed 10-28-2019) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.067 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of Fire Code. The state’s Fire Code shall be enforced by
the Fire Marshal, who shall be appointed by and operate under the supervision
of the Chief of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Inspectors. The Code Official shall have the authority to appoint a
deputy code official, other related technical officers and inspectors as shall,
from time to time, be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 1002.03) (Ord. 496, passed 11-12-1991; Ord. 681, passed 05-29-
2001; Ord. 715, passed 05-27-2003; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-2019)
§ 150.068 PERMIT FEES.
   All Fire Department permit fees shall be set in accordance with the city’s
approved fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 1002.04) (Ord. 496, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 150.069 APPEALS BOARD.
   The Fire Department Board of Directors and the Fire Chief shall act as the
local Board of Appeals with regard to enforcement of this subchapter and the
state’s Uniform Fire Code.
(Prior Code, § 1002.05) (Ord. 496, passed 11-12-1991; Ord. 681, passed 05-29-
2001)
§ 150.070 MINOR POSSESSION OF IGNITION DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      IGNITION DEVICE.
         (a)   Matches;
         (b)   Lighters; and
         (c)   Any other materials when used for purposes of ignition.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No minor may possess any ignition device, unless under the direct
supervision of, or with the direct permission of, a parent or legal guardian.
      (2)   No person may sell, give, deliver or make accessible any ignition
device to a minor.
      (3)   No owner of a place of business may make ignition devices
accessible to minors at the place of business.
   (C)   Confiscation. Any ignition device possessed by a minor may be
confiscated by any peace officer, Fire Chief or authorized designee of the Fire
Chief. Once confiscated, the ignition device shall become property of the
confiscating authority and shall be processed accordingly as evidence in the
commission of a crime or made inoperable and disposed of properly.
   (D)   Limiting access. Limiting access means placing ignition devices behind
sales counters out of reach of children or for items used for cooking or work
placing on the top shelf of the display rack.
(Prior Code, § 1002.07) (Ord. 715, passed 05-27-2003; Ord. 853, passed 02-03-
2011) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.071 RESIDENTIAL ALARM VERIFICATION.
   All residential monitoring companies shall attempt to contact the homeowner
for alarm verification prior to dispatching the Police and Fire Departments.
(Prior Code, § 1002.08) (Ord. 715, passed 05-27-2003; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-
2019)
§ 150.072 EXPIRATION OF FIRE PERMITS.
   Fire permits will expire in accordance with the provisions of the state’s
Fire Code.
(Prior Code, § 1002.09) (Ord. 853, passed 02-03-2011)
§ 150.073 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of the Fire Code
or the city code, the Fire Marshal may order the work stopped by written notice
served on any persons engaged in doing or causing the work to be done. Any such
person shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by the Fire Marshal to
proceed with the work.
(Prior Code, § 1002.10) (Ord. 853, passed 02-03-2011)
HOUSING CODE
§ 150.085 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The 2018 International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC), as promulgated by
the International Code Council Inc., is adopted by reference and incorporated
into the city code in whole as if it were set out in full, subject to the
amendments contained in this subchapter. A copy of the International Property
Maintenance Code is on file in the office of the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 1005.01) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-
2019)
§ 150.086 LOCAL AMENDMENTS.
   The following amendments are made to the 2018 International Property
Maintenance Code:
   (A)   Section 101.1 Title: These regulations shall be known as the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Mounds View, hereinafter referred to as “this
Code”.
   (B)   Section 101.2 Legislative Findings: The City Council finds that the
existence of dwellings which are substandard in one or more important features
of structure, equipment, maintenance or occupancy adversely affect public
health and safety and lead to the continuation, extension and aggravation of
urban blight. Adequate protection of public health, safety and welfare therefor
requires the establishment and enforcement of minimum housing standards.
   (C)   Section 101.3 Intent and Purpose: Every portion of a building or
premises used or intended to be used for residential purposes shall comply with
the provisions of this code, irrespective of when such building was
constructed. The purpose of this code is to protect the public health, safety
and welfare. The code:
      (1)   Establishes minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities;
for light, ventilation and heating; for safety from fire; for space, use and
location; for safe and sanitary maintenance of all dwellings;
      (2)   Determines the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants
of dwellings;
      (3)   Provides, as an incident to the primary regulation, for registering
the operation of certain dwellings; and
      (4)   Provides for administration and enforcement.
   (D)   Section 102.3 Application of Other Codes: Repairs, additions or
alterations to a structure, or changes of occupancy shall be done in accordance
with the procedures and provisions of the state’s Building Code (MSBC), as
amended, as adopted by the city. Nothing in this code shall be construed to
cancel, modify or set aside any provision of the MSBC or the city’s Zoning
Code.
   (E)   Section 102.7 Referenced Codes and Standards: The codes and standards
referenced in this code shall be those listed in Ch. 8, and shall be considered
part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such
reference. Where differences occur between provisions of this code and the
MSBC, the most restrictive shall apply.
   (F)   Section 103.1 General: The Community Development Department of the
city is responsible for administering the provisions of this code, and the
official in charge thereof shall be known as the Code Official.
   (G)   Section 103.2 Appointment: Not adopted.
   (H)   Section 103.5 Fees: Not adopted.
   (I)   Section 106.3 Violation and Penalties: Any violation of any provision
of this code shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day the structure is in
violation of this code shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to the
punishment specified in this section, the city may enforce this code by an
appropriate form of civil action and may enjoin violation of this code and
compel obedience thereto by mandatory orders and writs and cause the abatement
of everything existing in violation thereof and cause the premises to be
vacated, if occupied in violation thereof, and to remain vacant until the court
shall find that the violation has ceased, and for these purposes, any court of
competent jurisdiction may render, enter, make and issue any and every
appropriate judgment, decree, writ and order and cause the same to be executed.
   (J)   Section 106.3.1 Legal Authority: The acts, proceedings and authority
of the code official shall be treated as prima facie, just and legal.
   (K)   Section 106.4: Not adopted.
   (L)   Section 106.5 Execution of Compliance Orders by Public Authority: Upon
failure to comply with a compliance order within the time set therein (and no
appeal having been taken), or upon failure to comply with a modified compliance
order within the time set therein, the criminal penalty established hereunder
notwithstanding, the City Council, after due notice to the owner, may by
resolution cause the cited deficiency to be remedied as set forth in the
compliance order. The cost of such remedy is a lien against the subject real
estate. Such a lien may be levied and collected as a special assessment in the
manner provided by M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time. It may
be levied for any of the reasons set forth in M.S. § 429.101, subd. 1, as it
may be amended from time to time, and specifically for the removal or
elimination of public health or safety hazards from private property. It is the
intent of this section to authorize the city to utilize all of the provisions
of M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (M)   Section 108.4 Placarding: Upon failure of the owner or person
responsible to comply with the notice provisions within the time given, the
code official may post on the premises or on defective equipment a placard and
a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating the
equipment or removing the placard.
   (N)   Section 109.2 Summary Abatement: Notwithstanding other provisions of
this code, whenever, in the opinion of the code official, there is imminent
danger due to an unsafe condition, the code official may order the necessary
corrective actions to be completed without following the procedures required in
§ 107. A good faith effort shall be made to inform the owner, the owner’s agent
or the occupant that the action is being taken.
   (O)   Section 109.2.1 Notice of Summary Abatement: After the corrective
action has been taken the costs of such action have been determined, the code
official shall serve the owner, the owner’s agent or the occupant with a notice
of the action, which shall contain a description of the emergency
circumstances; the corrective action taken by the city; the cost incurred in
correcting the emergency; the city’s intent to assess some or all of the costs
against the corrected property; and a statement that the owner, the owner’s
agent or the occupant may request a hearing with the City Council to review the
code official’s actions and the possible assessment of costs. The request for
hearing shall be in writing and submitted to the City Administrator within ten
working days of the date of the notice.
   (P)   Section 109.5 Costs of Summary Abatement: The cost of the corrective
actions associated with the summary abatement is a lien against the subject
real estate. Such a lien may be levied and collected as a special assessment in
the manner provided by M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time. It
may be levied for any of the reasons set forth in M.S. § 429.101, subd. 1, as
it may be amended from time to time, and specifically for the removal or
elimination of public health or safety hazards from private property. It is the
intent of this section to authorize the city to utilize all of the provisions
of M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (Q)   Section 109.6 Hearing: Not adopted.
   (R)   Section 111: Not adopted.
   (S)   Section 201.3 Terms Defined in Other Codes: Where terms are not
defined in this Code and are defined in the MSBC and the city’s Zoning Code,
such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in those codes.
   (T)   Section 202 General Definitions:
      (1)   Code Official: The official charged with the administration and
enforcement of this code, or any duly authorized representative. For the
purpose of administration and enforcement of this code, the Housing Inspector,
Building Official or an authorized representative shall be the code official.
      (2)   Imminent Danger: A condition which could cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death. Including but not limited to; heating systems that
have damaged heat exchangers; rusted or plugged flues; inadequate venting; lack
of temperature or pressure relief valves. Electrical systems that have damaged
or deteriorated equipment; utilize the improper use of extension cords.
Plumbing systems that are unsanitary due to leaking waste systems; cross
connection of potable water supply; lack of adequate water supply. Walls,
ceilings, roofs, foundations and floor systems that will not safely carry
imposed loads. Refuse, garbage, human waste, dead vermin or other animals,
animal waste or other materials causing unsanitary conditions. Infestation of
rats, insects or other vermin.
   (U)   Section 302.4 Weeds: Not adopted.
   (V)   Section 303.2: Replace second sentence with the following: In
accordance with the MSBC, gates required to be self-closing and self-latching
shall be maintained such that, when released, they will positively close and
latch.
   (W)   Section 302.8 Motor Vehicles: Not adopted.
   (X)   Section 302.9 Defacement of Property: Not adopted.
   (Y)   Section 304.2 Protective Treatment: Third sentence amended to read as
follows, “Peeling, flaking, deteriorated or chipped paint that exceeds more
than 20% of the area of any plane or wall or other area shall be eliminated and
surfaces repainted.”
   (Z)   Section 304.14 Insect Screens: During the period from May 15 to
October 15, every door, window and other outside opening required for
ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas or
any areas where products to be included or utilized in food for human
consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or stored, shall be supplied
with approved tightly fitting screens of not less than 16 mesh per inch. Every
swinging door shall also have a self-closing device in good working condition.
   (AA)   Section 304.18.1 Doors: Second sentence amended to read, “Such
deadbolt locks shall be operated only by the turning of a knob and shall have a
lock throw of not less than three-fourths of an inch.”
   (BB)   Section 308.2.2 Refrigerators: Not adopted.
   (CC)   Section 403.4 Process Ventilation: In accordance with the MSBC and
the state’s Fire Code (MSFC), where injurious, toxic, irritating or noxious
fumes, gases, dusts or mists are generated, a local exhaust ventilation system
shall be provided to remove the contaminating agent at its source. Air shall be
exhausted to the exterior and not be recirculated to any space.
   (DD)   Section 403.5 Clothes Dryer Exhaust: Clothes dryer exhaust systems
shall be independent of all other systems, and shall be exhausted in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions and the state’s Mechanical Code (MSMC).
   (EE)   Section 502.3 Hotels: Not adopted.
   (FF)   Section 502.4 Employees’ Facilities: Not adopted.
   (GG)   Section 502.4.1 Drinking Facilities. Not adopted.
   (HH)   Section 505.4 Water Heating Facilities: Amend first sentence to read,
“Water heating facilities shall be properly installed, maintained and capable
of providing an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required sink,
lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry facility at a temperature of not less
than 120°F. and not more than 130°F.”
   (II)   Section 602.2 Residential Occupancies: Dwellings shall be provided
with heating facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68°F,
measured at three feet above the floor and three feet from exterior walls and
windows, in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closets. This is based on
the winter outdoor design temperature for the locality indicated in the state’s
Energy Code (MSEC). Cooking appliances shall not be used to provide space
heating to meet the requirements of this section.
   (JJ)   Section 602.3 Heat Supply: During the period from September 15 to May
15, every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases or lets one or
more dwelling unit, rooming unit, dormitory or guestroom on terms, either
expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply
heat to maintain a temperature of not less than 68°F, in all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and toilet rooms. Exception: When the outdoor temperature is below
the winter outdoor design temperature for the locality, -12°F, maintenance of
the minimum room temperature shall not be required, provided that the heating
system is operating at its full design capacity.
   (KK)   Section 602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces: When occupied during the period
from September 15 to May 15, indoor occupiable work spaces shall be supplied
with heat to maintain a temperature of not less than 68°F. Exception: When the
outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design temperature for the
locality, -12°F, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall not be
required; provided that, the heating system is operating at its full design
capacity.
   (LL)   Section 603.5 Combustion Air: In accordance with the state’s
Mechanical Code (MSMC), a supply of air shall be provided for complete fuel
combustion and for ventilation of the space containing the fuel-burning
equipment.
   (MM)   Section 604.1 Facilities Required: Every occupied building shall be
provided with an electrical system in compliance with the requirements of this
section, § 605 and the National Electrical Code (NEC) as adopted by the MSBC.
   (NN)   Section 604.2 Service: In accordance with the NEC, the size and usage
of appliances and equipment shall serve as a basis for determining the need for
additional facilities. At a minimum, dwelling units shall be served by a three-
wire, 120/240-volt, single-phase electrical service with a rating of not less
than 60 amperes.
   (OO)   Section 605.2: Add the following exception: Exception: One
permanently installed ceiling light fixture may be provided in lieu of one
required receptacle outlet.
   (PP)   Section 701 Scope: Under the provisions of this chapter, the MSFC
shall govern the minimum conditions and standards for fire safety relating to
structures and exterior premises, including fire safety facilities and
equipment to be provided.
   (QQ)   Section 702.2 Aisles: In accordance with the MSFC, the required width
of aisles shall be unobstructed.
   (RR)   Section 702.3 Locked Doors: All means of egress doors shall be
readily capable of being opened from the side from which egress is to be made,
without the need for keys, special knowledge or effort, except where the door
hardware conforms to that permitted by the MSBC.
   (SS)   Section 702.4 Emergency Escape Openings: Required emergency escape
and rescue openings shall be operational from the inside of the room, without
the use of keys or tools. Bars, grilles, grates or similar devices are not
permitted to be placed over emergency escape and rescue openings. Emergency
escape openings must provide a minimum net clear opening size that complies
with the MSBC.
   (TT)   Section 704.2 Smoke Alarms:
      (1)   Single or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed and
maintained in Groups R-2, R-3, R-4 at all of the following locations.
         (a)   On the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area in
the immediate vicinity of bedrooms;
         (b)   In each room used for sleeping purposes; and
         (c)   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements and
cellars but not including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics.
      (2)   Exception: Dwelling units in existence at the adoption of this code
shall meet smoke alarm location requirement under division (TT)(1)(b) above
prior to 01-01-2006.
   (UU)   Section 800 General References: Whenever this code refers to the
International Codes, such references shall be deemed to be to the comparable
applicable code as adopted by the state. Whenever this code refers to the
International Zoning Code, such references shall be deemed to be the city’s
Zoning Code.
(Prior Code, § 1005.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person(s), firm or corporation that violates any provisions
of §§
150.001 through
150.007 of this chapter, and/or the state’s Building Code, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
      (2)   Each day any such violation shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense, unless otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 1001.06)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
150.050 through
150.054 of this chapter or any owner or developer who fails to meet the terms
or conditions of a development agreement or resolution shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1006.07)
   (D)   (1)   (a)   Any persons, firm or corporation that violate any
provisions of §§
150.065 through
150.073 of this chapter and/or of the state’s Uniform Fire Code shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
         (b)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to
prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
         (c)   Each day any such violation shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1002.03)
      (2)   (a)   Any person(s), firm or corporation that violates any
provisions of §§
150.065 through
150.073 of this chapter and/or the state’s Building Code, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
         (b)   Each day any such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense, unless otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 1002.11)
      (3)   (a)   Any person that violates any of the provisions of §
150.070 of this chapter shall for each and every violation, be punished by a
forfeiture of the ignition devices and/or a fine per the city’s fee schedule,
for each offense as determined by the Fire Marshal, plus any costs and
surcharges as required by law.
         (b)   The Fire Marshal may waive any penalties if a guilty minor
attends and pays for the cost of the Anoka County Juvenile Fire Setter
Intervention Program or an equivalent program approved by the Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 1002.07) (Ord. 508, passed 04-27-1992; Ord. 715, passed 05-27-
2003; Ord. 727, passed 01-26-2004; Ord. 853, passed 02-03-2011)
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
Section
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Definitions
   
151.003   Notice of closing
   
151.004   Notice of public hearing
   
151.005   Public hearing
   
151.006   Payment of relocation costs
   
151.007   Payment of additional compensation
   
151.008   Verification of costs
 
   
151.999   Penalty
§ 151.001 PURPOSE.
   In view of the peculiar nature and problems presented by the closure or
conversion of manufactured home parks, the City Council finds that the public
health, safety and general welfare will be promoted by requiring compensation
to displaced residents of such parks. The purpose of this chapter is to require
park owners to pay displaced residents reasonable relocation costs and
additional compensation, pursuant to the authority granted under M.S. §
327C.095, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1011.01)
§ 151.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLOSURE STATEMENT. A statement prepared by the park owner clearly stating
that the park is closing, addressing the availability, location and potential
costs of adequate replacement housing within a 25-mile radius of the park that
is closing and the probable relocation cost of the manufactured home located in
the park.
   DISPLACED RESIDENT. A person with an ownership interest in a manufactured
home who rents a lot located in a manufactured home park which is subject to
the requirements of this chapter, including the members of the resident’s
household, as of the date the park owner submits a closure statement to the
city’s Planning Commission. For purposes of this section, OWNERSHIP INTEREST
shall include a fee title, contract for deed vendee or a leasehold interest.
   LOT. An area within a manufactured home park, designed or used for the
accommodation of a manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, not affixed to or part of real estate,
transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode, is eight
body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erect on
site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating and
electrical system contained in it.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which two
or more occupied manufactured homes are located, either free of charge or for
compensation, and includes any building, structure, tent vehicle or home park.
This definition does not include facilities which are open only during three or
fewer seasons of the year.
   PARK OWNER. The owner of a manufactured home park and any person acting on
behalf of the owner in the operation, management or legal control of a park.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, incorporated and
unincorporated association, or any other legal or commercial entity.
(Prior Code, § 1011.02)
§ 151.003 NOTICE OF CLOSING.
   If a manufactured home park is to be closed, converted in whole or part to
another use or terminated as a use of the property, the park owner shall, at
least nine months prior to the closure, provide a copy of a closure statement
to displaced residents of each manufactured home and to the city’s Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1011.03)
§ 151.004 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Planning Commission shall submit the closure statement to the City
Council and request the City Council to schedule a public hearing. The city
shall mail a notice at least ten days prior to the public hearing to a
displaced resident of each manufactured home in the park stating the time,
place and purpose of the hearing. The park owner shall provide the city with a
list of the names and addresses of at least one displaced resident of each
manufactured home in the park at the time the closure statement is submitted to
the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1011.04)
§ 151.005 PUBLIC HEARING.
   A public hearing shall be held before the City Council for the purpose of
reviewing the closure statement and evaluating what impact the park closing may
have on the displaced residents and the park owner.
(Prior Code, § 1011.05)
§ 151.006 PAYMENT OF RELOCATION COSTS.
   (A)   After service of the closure statement by the park owner and upon
submittal by the displaced resident of a contract or other verification of
relocation expenses, the park owner shall pay to the displaced resident the
reasonable cost of relocating the manufactured home to another manufactured
home park located within a 25-mile radius of the park that is being closed,
converted to another use or ceasing operation.
   (B)   Reasonable relocation costs shall include:
      (1)   The actual expenses incurred in moving the displaced resident’s
manufactured home and personal property, including the reasonable cost of
dissembling, moving and reassembling any attached appurtenances, such as
porches, decks, skirting and awnings, which were acquired before or after
notice of closure or conversion of the park and utility “hook-up” charges;
      (2)   The cost of insurance for the replacement value of the property
being moved; and
      (3)   The cost of repairs or modifications that are required in order to
move the manufactured home.
(Prior Code, § 1011.06)
§ 151.007 PAYMENT OF ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION.
   (A)   If a displaced resident cannot relocate the manufactured home within a
25-mile radius of the park that is being closed or some other agreed-upon
distance, the displaced resident is entitled to additional compensation to be
paid by the park owner, in order to mitigate the adverse financial impact of
the park closing. If the displaced resident tenders the title to the
manufactured home, the additional compensation shall be in an amount equal to
the estimated market value of the manufactured home as determined by the County
Assessor and as reported on the displaced resident’s most recent property tax
statement. The park owner shall pay such compensation into an escrow account
established by the park owner, for distribution upon transfer of title to the
home. Such compensation shall be paid to the displaced residents no later than
30 days prior to the closing of the park or its conversion to another use.
   (B)   If a displaced resident cannot relocate the manufactured home within a
25-mile radius of the park which is being closed or some other agreed-upon
distance, and the displaced resident elects not to tender title to the
manufactured home, the displaced resident is entitled to relocation costs based
upon an average of relocation costs awarded to other displaced residents in the
park.
   (C)   The total compensation to be paid to displaced residents by the park
owner shall not exceed 20% of the purchase price of the park or 20% of the
market value of the park as determined by the County Assessor, whichever value
is greater.
(Prior Code, § 1011.07)
§ 151.008 VERIFICATION OF COSTS.
   The displaced resident must submit a contract or other verified cost
estimates for relocating the manufactured home to the park owner for approval
as a condition to the park owner’s liability to pay relocation expenses. If the
park owner refuses to pay the contract or other verified cost estimates, the
park owner shall arrange for relocating the manufactured home and pay the
relocation costs identified in §
151.006 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1011.08)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be considered a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any provisions of this chapter may be enforced by injunction or other
appropriate civil remedy.
   (C)   The city shall not approve an application for a building permit,
rezoning, platting, development review, conditional use permit or variance in
conjunction with reuse of manufactured home park property unless the park owner
has paid reasonable relocation costs and provided additional compensation in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1011.09)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
Street Openings; Driveways
   
152.001   Application; purpose
   
152.002   Permit requirements for driveway construction
   
152.003   Driveway construction
   
152.004   Curbing standards
Street Lighting
   
152.015   Purpose
   
152.016   Existing subdivisions
   
152.017   New subdivisions
   
152.018   Billing
 
   
152.999   Penalty
STREET OPENINGS; DRIVEWAYS
§ 152.001 APPLICATION; PURPOSE.
   This subchapter applies to all driveways within the municipality and is
declared to be necessary and essential because of the growth and expansion of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 902.01) (Ord. 640, passed 10-11-1999)
§ 152.002 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Driveway construction. No person shall construct a driveway without
first obtaining a permit pursuant to the provisions set forth in §§
150.050 through
150.054 of this chapter.
   (B)   Existing, non-conforming driveways. Consistent with the provisions of
§§
160.375 through
160.382 of this code of ordinances, driveways that do not conform to the
requirements of the city code may not be replaced or reconstructed without
bringing them into compliance. (Minor maintenance and alterations may be
permitted.) Driveways which cannot be brought into compliance without undue
hardship, as determined by the Director of Community Development, may be
improved, replaced or rebuilt, however, in no case may the extent of the non-
conformity increase as a result. If a requested permit is denied due to non-
compliance, the property owner may appeal the decision in writing to the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 902.02) (Ord. 640, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 756, passed 01-24-
2005) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.003 DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   General construction. The following procedure and specifications shall
be required for all driveway construction from streets to private garages, and
parking areas attached thereto.
      (1)   Excavation. The driveway or parking area shall be excavated to
remove all black dirt from the area to be surfaced.
      (2)   Drainage provisions. The driveway or parking area shall be
constructed so as to provide drainage from the garage to the street unless a
variance is granted by the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Concrete construction.
      (1)   After initial excavation, the driveway shall be backfilled with
Class 4 base material, compacted in place, to an elevation four inches below
the finished surface grade of the driveway.
      (2)   The driveway construction shall consist of a minimum of four inches
of 3,500 pound mix, four-inch slump with air.
   (C)   Asphalt construction.
      (1)   After initial excavation, the driveway shall be backfilled with
Class 4 base material, compacted in place, to an elevation four inches below
the finished surface grade of the driveway.
      (2)   The driveway construction shall consist of a minimum of two inches
(compacted thickness), Class 5 base material and a minimum of two inches
(compacted thickness) bituminous wearing course conforming to State Highway
Department Specifications 2331.
      (3)   The bituminous wearing course material shall not be delivered to
the job site until the Class 5 base material has been placed compacted.
   (D)   Brick construction. (Because of the numerous types and styles of brick
and brick pavers available, these construction guidelines may be superseded by
individual manufacturer or professional landscape specifications.)
      (1)   After initial excavation and compaction of the exposed earth, the
driveway shall be backfilled with four inches of Class 4 base material,
compacted in place to an elevation four inches below the finished surface grade
of the driveway.
      (2)   The driveway construction shall consist of a leveled layer of sand
not to exceed one and one-half inches deep upon which the bricks or pavers are
to be fitted and interlocked, held in place by an edging material.
      (3)   Dry sand shall be scattered over the driveway area and swept into
the cracks between the bricks or pavers and repeated as necessary until all
voids are filled.
   (E)   Gravel construction. After initial excavation, the parking area
construction (not to exceed 300 square feet in area) shall consist of a minimum
of four inches of Class 2 rock or other acceptable material compacted into
place.
(Prior Code, § 902.03) (Ord. 620, passed 07-27-1998; Ord. 640, passed 10-11-
1999)
§ 152.004 CURBING STANDARDS.
   Curbing shall be required for all driveways and parking lots according to
the following standards and specifications:
   (A)   Single-family residential: none;
   (B)   Two-family residential: none;
   (C)   Three- to six-unit residential: exposed barrier curb; and
   (D)   Seven-plus unit residential, commercial and industrial: B 6-12 curb
and gutter.
(Prior Code, § 902.04) (Ord. 640, passed 10-11-1999)
STREET LIGHTING
§ 152.015 PURPOSE.
   The City Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the city
to operate, maintain and improve upon the street lighting system throughout the
city. It is the Council’s intent to encourage this program throughout the city
to promote the general health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Prior Code, § 904.01) (Ord. 497, passed 11-25-1991; Ord. 528, passed 09-27-
1993)
§ 152.016 EXISTING SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   New installations. New installations shall be in accordance with Res.
949, on file in the office of the City Administrator.
   (B)   Installation costs.
      (1)   The city may pay such portion of the costs of improvement as the
City Council may determine from ad valorem tax levies or from other funds or
revenues available for that purpose.
      (2)   The costs of any improvement or any part thereof may be assessed
upon the property benefitted by the improvement based upon the benefits
received, whether or not the property abuts on the improvement and regardless
of any part of the improvement being paid for by any other town, county, state
or federal aid source. If the city assesses the benefitted property owners, it
will follow the provisions of M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 904.02) (Ord. 497, passed 11-25-1991; Ord. 528, passed 09-27-
1993; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 152.017 NEW SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Street lighting plan. In any proposed subdivision, whether
residential, commercial or other, the developer shall submit a street lighting
plan, including construction schedule, for review and approval by the City
Council after recommendation by the city staff.
   (B)   Cost of installation. The cost of installation in new subdivisions
will be paid for by the developer according to the existing city policy.
(Prior Code, § 904.03) (Ord. 497, passed 11-25-1991; Ord. 528, passed 09-27-
1993)
§ 152.018 BILLING.
   The Utility Billing Clerk shall, quarterly, prepare a bill based on the
rates established for each property class by Council and in accordance with
existing city policy. Such fees shall be added to the water and sewer billing
for each lot and parcel determined by Council. The amount billed will,
thereupon, become due and payable in accordance with water and sewer billing
policy. In the event of non-payment of the bill, the Utility Billing Clerk
shall be authorized to certify the unpaid portion to the County Auditor to be
added to the tax rolls for the property involved.
(Prior Code, § 904.04) (Ord. 497, passed 11-25-1991; Ord. 528, passed 09-27-
1993)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall do or commit any act that is forbidden by §§
152.001 through
152.004 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 902.05) (Ord. 640, passed 10-11-1999)
CHAPTER 153: TREES
Section
Shade Tree Disease and Pest Control
   
153.001   Shade Tree Disease and Pest Control Program
   
153.002   Inspection and investigation
   
153.003   Nuisances declared; abatement
   
153.004   Abatement procedures; assessment of costs
   
153.005   Disruption of root grafts
   
153.006   Treating of trees
   
153.007   Transporting wood; permitting requirements
   
153.008   Storage of elm wood
   
153.009   Tree contractors; licensing requirements
 
   
153.999   Penalty
SHADE TREE DISEASE AND PEST CONTROL
§ 153.001 SHADE TREE DISEASE AND PEST CONTROL PROGRAM.
   (A)   Authority. The City Administrator and those agents appointed by the
City Administrator (herein referred to as “Tree Inspector”) are hereby
empowered to conduct a program of shade tree disease and pest control pursuant
to authority granted by M.S. §§ 18G, 89.001, 89.01 and 89.51 through 89.64, as
they may be amended from time to time, including the elimination of Dutch elm
disease fungus, elm bark beetles, oak wilt fungus, emerald ash borer and other
potentially non-native invasive pests and epidemic diseases of trees.
   (B)   Interference prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere, prevent or delay the authorized parties from discharging their
duties pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 605.01) (Ord. 844, passed 5-20-2010; Ord. 871, passed 05-03-
2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.002 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Inspection. The Tree Inspector shall inspect all premises and places
within the city as often as practicable, but not less than that required by the
state, to determine whether any condition described in §
153.003(A) of this chapter exists thereon. The Tree Inspector may investigate
all incidents of infestations by Dutch elm fungus, elm bark beetles, oak wilt
fungus, emerald ash borer or any other non-native invasive pests, epidemic
diseases or other factors which are potentially contributory to the spread of
tree disease and pests.
   (B)   Right of entry. The Tree Inspector may enter upon private premises at
any reasonable time for the purposes of carrying out any of the duties assigned
to the Tree Inspector under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 605.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 871, passed 05-03-
2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.S. § 18.022, subd. 9
§ 153.003 NUISANCES DECLARED; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Nuisances declared. The following are hereby declared public nuisances
whenever they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree, or part thereof, infected to any
degree with the Dutch elm disease fungus Ceratocystis ulmi (buisman) moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus multistriatus (eichh.) or
Hylurgo-pinus rufipes (marsh);
      (2)   Any dead or dying elm tree, or part thereof, including logs,
branches, stumps, firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not
been removed and burned or buried;
      (3)   Any living or standing red oak tree, or part thereof, infected to
any degree with the oak wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any diseased wood from the red oak group which, by April 1 in any
given year, has not been either debarked, burned, buried or split into quarter
sections and completely enclosed with a covering (at least four-mil, if
plastic) adequately thick and whole so as to isolate the wood until July 15 or
later of the year immediately following the wilting of the tree from which the
wood originated;
      (5)   Any living or standing ash tree, or part thereof, infested to any
degree with the emerald ash borer Agrilus planipennis by presence of:
         (a)   Larval galleries and emerald ash borer larva or larvae;
         (b)   Emerald ash borer adult beetles and “D”-shaped exit holes; and
         (c)   Woodpecker holes and/or woodpecker activity.
      (6)   Any dead or dying ash tree, or part thereof, including logs,
branches, stumps, firewood, or other ash material, to which the bark is still
attached that may serve as a breeding place for emerald ash borer; and
      (7)   Other trees with non-native invasive pests, epidemic disease or
other factors which are potentially contributory to the spread of such pests
and disease.
   (B)   Nuisance declared unlawful. It is unlawful for any person to permit
public nuisances, as herein defined, to remain on any premises owned or
controlled by that person within the city.
(Prior Code, § 605.03) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 871, passed 05-03-
2012; Ord. 945, passed 05-29-2018) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.004 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   Notice to abate.
      (1)   Whenever the Tree Inspector finds that nuisances, as defined in §
153.003 of this chapter, exist on any public or private property in the city,
they shall notify the property owner on which such nuisances are located, by
personal service or by mail, that the nuisances must be abated within the
specified time below.
      (2)   If mailed notice or personal service cannot be achieved, then
notice may be obtained by publishing same in the legal newspaper not less than
five days prior to the date that the nuisance must be abated pursuant to the
notice:
         (a)   Not less than ten days from the date of service or from the date
of mailing of the notice for dead or diseased elms;
         (b)   Before the date indicated in the notice for red oaks infected
with oak wilt disease;
         (c)   Before the date indicated in the notice, but no later than April
15 of the following year, for dead or infested ash trees. The Tree Inspector
may order the immediate removal of dead or infested ash trees if the removal
will eliminate the likelihood of an imminent threat of spread to other ash
trees from late May to early August;
         (d)   Ash tree removal to occur between October 31 and April 30,
unless the Tree Inspector finds the ash tree hazardous and recommends the tree
be removed immediately; and
         (e)   For any tree removal by the city, the city shall not be
responsible for restoration of the removal site, including, but not limited to,
seeding or replacement of sod, trees, shrubs, flowers, underground irrigation
or any other improvements not specifically mentioned herein, which may be
damaged, destroyed or removed during the tree removal process.
   (B)   Failure to abate; cost billed to owner. If the owner shall fail to
remove the nuisance(s) from the property described in the notice, the Tree
Inspector may order the work to be done, and the cost of the work shall be
billed against the owner.
   (C)   Responsibility for costs.
      (1)   Trees which are diseased pursuant to this subchapter located on
city boulevards in public rights-of-way will be removed at a cost of 50% to the
owner of the abutting property with the city assuming the remaining costs.
      (2)   All other materials pursuant to this subchapter are the
responsibility of the owner of the abutting property.
   (D)   Special assessment. If the owner shall fail to pay the bill, as
provided for in division (B) above, within 90 days, the Council may then assess
the amount due, plus interest, plus costs against the property as a special
assessment pursuant to state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 605.04) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 871, passed 05-03-
2012; Ord. 945, passed 05-29-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.S. § 429.101
§ 153.005 DISRUPTION OF ROOT GRAFTS.
   Whenever a tree is found, which is actually or potentially diseased with any
disease covered in this subchapter, the Tree Inspector may take whatever steps
are necessary as recommended by the Commissioner of Agriculture to disrupt all
potential root grafts. This disruption shall be performed as soon as possible.
The property owner or the person in possession, if different from the owner, on
which the trees stand and adjacent property owners or the persons in
possession, if different from the owner, if the disruption procedure extends
onto that property, shall be notified by personal service or first class mail
that the disruption will be done.
(Prior Code, § 605.05) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 871, passed 05-03-
2012)
§ 153.006 TREATING OF TREES.
   (A)   Whenever the Tree Inspector determines that any tree or wood within
the city is infected with shade tree pests or disease-causing organisms
pursuant to this subchapter, they may treat all nearby high value trees with
the appropriate chemical treatment. Treating activities authorized by this
subchapter shall be conducted in accordance with technical and expert opinions
and plans of the Commissioner of Agriculture or other state officials. The
provisions of §
153.004(A) of this chapter apply to treating operations conducted under this
provision. Treatment authorized pursuant to this provision shall be considered
an emergency activity by the city and an attempt to abate a public nuisance,
and the city, the City Administrator and Tree Inspector shall not be liable for
any damages resulting hereunder. Permit must be obtained from the city for any
tree treatment(s).
   (B)   Adjacent property owners may treat non-diseased and non-infested
boulevard trees located in public rights-of-way only after obtaining a permit
from the city. All treatment of boulevard trees by adjacent property owner must
be performed by a licensed tree contractor with possession of a current
pesticide applicator license issued by the state and performed in accordance
with methods approved by the Department of Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 605.06) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 871, passed 05-03-
2012; Ord. 945, passed 05-29-2018)
§ 153.007 TRANSPORTING WOOD; PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to transport within the city any bark-bearing
wood, pursuant to this subchapter, which is known by the Tree Inspector,
without first having obtained a permit from the city. The Tree Inspector may
grant such permit only when the purposes of this subchapter will be served
thereby.
(Prior Code, § 605.07) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 871, passed 05-03-
2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.008 STORAGE OF ELM WOOD.
   The storage or keeping of any elm wood with intact bark is only permitted
during the season of dormancy from October 1 to March 15.
(Prior Code, § 605.08) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.009 TREE CONTRACTORS; LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   Tree services by private tree contractors shall be performed under the
direction of an arborist certified by the International Society of
Arboriculture (ISA) or forester certified by the Society of American Foresters
(SAF) and employed by the contractor. The contractor shall also be registered
with the Commissioner’s office and the State Tree Care registration number
shall be provided to the city. Licensing of tree contractors shall be required
for any routine or non-routine tree services performed on public or private
property, including, but not limited to, tree trimming, tree removal, tree
treatment by injection or trench methods and stump grinding.
(Prior Code, § 605.09) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 945, passed 05-29-
2018)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
153.001 through
153.009 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 605.10) (Ord. 871, passed 05-03-2012)
CHAPTER 154: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Statutory authorization
   
154.002   Findings of fact
   
154.003   Statement of purpose
   
154.004   Lands to which chapter applies
   
154.005   Establishment of official zoning map
   
154.006   Regulatory flood protection elevation
   
154.007   Interpretation
   
154.008   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.009   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.010   Severability
   
154.011   Definitions
   
154.012   Annexations
Zoning Overlay Districts
   
154.025   Districts generally
   
154.026   Compliance
   
154.027   Floodway District (FW)
   
154.028   Flood Fringe District (FF)
Conditions and Regulations
   
154.040   Procedures for determining 100-year flood elevations in areas located
in Zone A of the Flood Insurance Rate Map panels
   
154.041   Subdivisions
   
154.042   Public utilities, railroads, roads and bridges
   
154.043   Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks; placement of
recreational vehicles
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.055   Community Development Director
   
154.056   Permit requirements
   
154.057   Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   
154.058   Conditional uses
   
154.059   Non-conforming uses
   
154.060   Violations
   
154.061   Amendments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in M.S. Ch. 103F and Ch. 462, as they may
be amended from time to time, delegated to local government units the
responsibility to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the City Council does ordain as follows in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1301.01)
§ 154.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   General. The flood hazard areas in the city are subject to periodic
inundation that results in potential loss of life, loss of property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (B)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. The city bases this chapter on
a reasonable method of analyzing flood hazards that is consistent with the
standards set by the state’s Department of Natural Resources (“DNR”).
   (C)   National Flood Insurance Program compliance. The city adopts this
chapter to meet the rules and regulations of the National Flood Insurance
Program codified as 44 C.F.R. parts 59 through 78, as amended, so as to
maintain the city’s eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Prior Code, § 1301.01)
§ 154.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize the losses described above in §
154.002(A) of this chapter by the provisions contained herein.
(Prior Code, § 1301.01)
§ 154.004 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands in the city shown on the Official
Zoning Map and/or the attachments thereto as being within the boundaries of the
Floodway, Flood Fringe or General Floodplain Districts.
(Prior Code, § 1301.02)
§ 154.005 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The city hereby adopts by reference the Official Zoning Map, together with
all materials attached thereto, and declares the zoning map to be a part of
this chapter. The attached materials shall include the Flood Insurance Study
for Ramsey County, Minnesota (all jurisdictions) and Flood Insurance Rate Map
panels therein numbered 27123C0004G, 27123C0005G and 27123C0010G, all dated 06-
04-2010 as prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The
Official Zoning Map and attached materials shall be on file in the offices of
the City Administrator and the Community Development Director.
(Prior Code, § 1301.02)
§ 154.006 REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   The regulatory flood protection elevation shall be an elevation no lower
than one foot above the elevation of the regional flood, plus any increases in
flood elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
(Prior Code, § 1301.02)
§ 154.007 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   (1)   In their interpretation and application, the city and all users
of this chapter shall hold the provisions of this chapter to be the minimum
requirements and shall liberally construe the provisions in favor of the city
or other regulating agency.
      (2)   In addition, no one shall deem any of the provisions of this
chapter a limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by state or federal
statutes.
   (B)   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined by scaling
distances on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Planning Commission shall
make interpretations about exact location of the boundaries of a district as
shown on the Official Zoning Map, as for example where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions and there is a
formal appeal of the decision of the Community Development Director. All
decisions will be based on elevations on the regional (100-year) flood profile,
the ground elevations that existed on the site at the time the city adopted its
initial floodplain regulations or on the date of the first National Flood
Insurance Program map showing the area within the 100-year floodplain if
earlier, and other available technical data. The city shall give persons
contesting the location of the district boundaries a reasonable opportunity to
present their cases to the Planning Commission and to submit technical
evidence.
(Prior Code, § 1301.02)
§ 154.008 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   The city does not intend by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. In
all cases, the provisions of
Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances and the city’s surface water management plan
(subject to subsequent revisions) shall be considered more restrictive than
this chapter. The city hereby repeals all other regulations or ordinances
inconsistent with this chapter to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Prior Code, § 1301.02)
§ 154.009 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not imply that areas outside the floodplain districts or
land uses permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 1301.02)
§ 154.010 SEVERABILITY.
   If a court of competent jurisdiction decides that any section, clause,
provision or portion of this chapter is unconstitutional or invalid, then the
decision shall not affect the remainder of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1301.02)
§ 154.011 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory
and is not discretionary.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use, building or structure on the same lot
with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal
use, building or structure.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a building or structure, including crawl spaces,
having its floor or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides,
regardless of the depth of excavation below ground level.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in the city
code that the City Council may allow, but only after an in-depth review and
with conditions or restrictions as provided in the city code and upon a finding
that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in the city code exist; and
      (2)   The structure or land use conforms to the city’s Comprehensive Plan
and if the city decides the proposed use is compatible with nearby land uses
and with the existing neighborhood.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream, creek
or watercourse are capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream, creek or
watercourse or in the stage of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation
of normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency that a person can expect that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The part of the floodplain outside of the floodway. The term
FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the Flood
Insurance Study for Ramsey County, Minnesota (all jurisdictions).
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel or beds proper of a stream, creek or watercourse and
the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or watercourse that a regional flood has or
hereafter may cover.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain that is reasonably required to carry
or store the regional flood discharge.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including a
basement). The city does not consider an unfinished or flood resistant
enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in
an area other than a basement area as the building’s LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed and constructed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse or regulatory floodplain that may impede, retard
or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching
or collecting debris carried by the water.
   PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE. The main or primary use of land or buildings
that are not subordinate accessory uses or structures.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term used to describe a longitudinal segment
of a stream or river influenced by a natural or human-made obstruction. In an
urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge
crossings would most typically constitute a REACH.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle that is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less of floor area when measured at
the largest horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
      (2)   For the purposes of this chapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE
shall be synonymous with the term TRAVEL TRAILER/ TRAVEL VEHICLE.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood that is representative of large floods known to have
occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what a person
could expect to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. The term REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the terms BASE
FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL CHANCE or 100-YEAR FLOOD ELEVATION.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An elevation no lower than one foot
above the elevation of the regional flood, plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, recreational
vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in §
154.043(C) of this chapter and other similar items.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to the condition before the damage occurred
would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
“start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not include however, any:
      (1)   Project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
that have been identified by the local code enforcement official or other city
official and are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Alteration of an “historic structure”, if the alteration would not
preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic structure”. For
the purpose of this chapter, “historic structure” shall be as defined in 44
C.F.R. § 59.1. (There are no known historic structures in the city.)
   VARIANCE. A modification of a permitted development standard required in the
city code (including this chapter) to allow an alternative development standard
not stated as acceptable in the city code, but only as applied to a particular
property for the purpose of alleviating a hardship, practical difficulty or
unique circumstance, as defined in the city code.
(Prior Code, § 1301.02)
§ 154.012 ANNEXATIONS.
   The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted by reference in §
154.005 of this chapter may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the
corporate boundaries of the city at the time the city adopts this chapter. If
the city annexes any of these floodplain land areas into the city after the
date it adopts this chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands shall be
subject to the provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of
annexation into the city.
(Prior Code, § 1301.02)
ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICTS
§ 154.025 DISTRICTS GENERALLY.
   The city establishes the following overlay zoning classifications within the
city.
   (A)   Floodway District. The Floodway District shall include those areas
designated as “Zone AE”, “Zone AH” and “Zone A” on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
panels adopted in §
154.005 of this chapter that are below the ordinary high water level, as
defined in M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 14, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District shall include those
areas designated as “Zone AE”, “Zone AH” and “Zone A” on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map panels adopted in §
154.005 of this chapter that are below the 1% annual chance flood elevation
(100-year flood elevation), but above the ordinary high water level as defined
in M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 14, as it may be amended from time to time. (See §
154.040 of this chapter for the procedures to determine the 1% annual chance
flood elevation (100-year flood elevation)).
(Prior Code, § 1301.03)
§ 154.026 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No person shall use a new structure or land and no person shall
construct, locate, extend, convert or structurally alter a structure without
meeting the terms of this chapter and all other applicable rules and
regulations. Within the Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain
Districts, the city prohibits all uses not listed as permitted uses or
conditional uses in §§
154.027 and
154.028 of this chapter, respectively.
   (B)   In addition, the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes and certain
travel trailers and travel vehicles are subject to the general provisions of
this chapter and to the standards in §
154.043 of this chapter;
      (2)   Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal
maintenance and repair or repair after damage to existing non-conforming
structures and non-conforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the
general provisions of this chapter and to the standards in §
154.059 of this chapter; and
      (3)   As-built elevations for elevated or flood-proofed structures must
be certified by ground surveys. A licensed professional engineer or architect
must design and certify flood-proofing techniques as specified in the general
provisions of this chapter and as stated in §§
154.055 through
154.058 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1301.01) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 154.027 FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW).
   (A)   General. The permitted and conditional uses listed below are only
allowable in the Floodway District if not prohibited by any other underlying
zoning district classifications of the city and if not prohibited by any
applicable state or federal law. The city does not allow community-wide
structural works or projects in the Floodway District for flood controls that
are intended to remove areas from the regulatory floodplain.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture and wild crop harvesting;
      (2)   Boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature
preserves and fishing areas; and
      (3)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas and play
areas.
   (C)   Standards for Floodway District permitted uses.
      (1)   The use shall have low flood damage potential.
      (2)   The use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning district.
      (3)   The use shall not obstruct flood flows or increase flood elevations
and shall not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or storage of
materials or equipment.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The conditional uses listed below are only allowable
in Floodway District if not prohibited by any other underlying zoning district
classification of the city and if not prohibited by applicable state or federal
law. The city requires a conditional use permit approved by the City Council
for each use. The city or the property owner must record the conditional use
permit against the title of the property in the County Recorder’s office:
      (1)   The extraction and storage of sand, gravel and other materials;
      (2)   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves and water control
structures;
      (3)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and
pipelines; and
      (4)   The placement of fill.
   (E)   Standards for Floodway District conditional uses.
      (1)   The city will not allow fill (including fill for roads and levees),
deposits, obstructions or other similar uses as a conditional use that would
cause any increase in the stage of a 100-year or regional flood or cause an
increase in flood damage in the reach or reaches affected.
      (2)   All conditional uses in the Floodway District shall be subject to
the procedures and standards set forth in §
154.058 of this chapter.
      (3)   The conditional use shall be permissible in the underlying city
zoning district.
      (4)   Fill, subject to the following standards.
         (a)   The property owner or contractor shall protect fill, dredge
spoil and all other similar materials that they deposit or store in the
floodplain from erosion by vegetative cover, mulching, riprap or other method
acceptable to the city.
         (b)   The city does not allow dredge spoil sites and sand and gravel
operations in the Floodway District unless the owner or operator submits a
long-term site development plan to the city that includes an erosion/
sedimentation prevention element to the plan.
         (c)   As an alternative, and consistent with division (E)(4)(b) above,
dredge spoil disposal and sand and gravel operations may allow temporary, on-
site storage of fill or other materials that would have caused an increase to
the stage of 100-year or regional flood. The city will only allow such storage
only if the city has received a plan that assures the removal of the materials
from the floodway based upon the available time after a flood warning. The city
or the property owner must record the conditional use permit against the title
of the property in the County Recorder’s office.
      (5)   The city may allow the storage of other materials or equipment if
readily removable from the area in the time available after a flood warning and
according to a plan approved by the city. The city prohibits the storage or
processing of materials that are, in time of flooding, flammable, explosive or
potentially injurious to human, animal or plant life.
(Prior Code, § 1301.04)
§ 154.028 FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF).
   (A)   Permitted uses. The permitted uses in the flood fringe district are
all those uses of land or structures listed in
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances as permitted uses in the underlying zoning
district(s). All permitted uses must meet the standards for Flood Fringe
District’s permitted uses listed in division (B) below set forth below and the
standards for all flood fringe uses listed in division (D) below.
   (B)   Standards for Flood Fringe District permitted uses.
      (1)   All structures in the Flood Fringe district, including accessory
structures, must be elevated on fill so that the lowest floor (including the
basement floor) is at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation. The
finished fill elevation for structures shall be no lower than one foot below
the regulatory flood protection elevation. The fill shall extend at such
elevations at least 15 feet beyond the outside limits of the structure on the
property.
      (2)   As an alternative to elevation on fill, owners of accessory
structures in the flood fringe that constitute a minimal investment and that do
not exceed 500 square feet in area may flood-proof the structures according to
the following standards.
         (a)   Owners shall not intend, design, nor construct, accessory
structures for human habitation.
         (b)   Accessory structures must be elevated on fill or structurally
dry flood-proofed according to the FP-1 or FP-2 flood-proofing classifications
in the state’s Building Code. As an alternative, an owner may flood-proof an
accessory structure to the FP-3 or FP-4 flood-proofing classification in the
state’s Building Code. For a detached garage, the owner must use the detached
garage solely for parking of vehicles and limited storage. All flood-proofed
accessory structures must meet the following additional standards.
            1.   Accessory structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed
and constructed to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
            2.   All mechanical and utility equipment in the accessory
structure must be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation or properly flood-proofed.
            3.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
must be a minimum of two “automatic” openings in the outside walls of the
accessory structure having a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. There must be
openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings
must be no higher than one foot above the lowest adjacent grade to the
structure. Using human intervention to open a garage door before flooding will
not satisfy this requirement for automatic openings.
      (3)   The cumulative placement of fill on a parcel where at any one time
is in excess of 1,000 cubic yards shall be allowed only as a conditional use,
unless the fill is specifically intended to elevate a structure to meet the
requirements of division (D) below.
      (4)   Property owners and users shall store or park any materials or
equipment on fill to an elevation at or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation.
      (5)   The provisions of division (D) below shall apply.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The city shall only allow structures that are not
elevated on fill or flood-proofed according to divisions (D)(1) and (D)(2)
below and or any use of land that does not meet the standards in divisions (D)
(3) and (D)(4) below as a conditional use. An application for a conditional use
permit shall be subject to the standards and criteria and evaluation procedures
specified in divisions (D)(4) and (D)(5) below and in §
154.058 of this chapter, those standards and procedures set forth in
Ch. 160 of the city code and elsewhere in the city code.
   (D)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses.
      (1)   (a)   An owner may use alternative elevation methods other than the
use of fill to elevate a structure’s lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of stilts,
pilings, parallel walls and the like or above-grade, enclosed areas such as
crawl spaces or tuck under garages. The city shall consider the base or floor
of an enclosed area above-grade and not a structure’s basement or lowest floor
if:
            1.   The enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of the
structure;
            2.   It is designed and constructed to internally flood and is
constructed with flood resistant materials; and
            3.   The owner uses it solely for parking of vehicles, building
access or storage.
         (b)   The above-noted alternative elevation methods are subject to the
following additional standards.
            1.   Design and certification. A licensed professional engineer or
architect must certify that the structure’s design and as-built condition meets
the general design standards of the state’s Building Code. Specifically, all
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities must be at or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation or be designed and constructed to prevent flood water from entering
or accumulating in these components during times of flooding.
            2.   Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed areas. Owners and
contractors shall design and construct above-grade, fully enclosed areas such
as crawl spaces or tuck under garages to internally flood with design and
construction plans that stipulate:
               a.   A minimum area of automatic openings in the walls where
internal flooding is to be used as a flood-proofing technique. There shall be a
minimum of two openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom
of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade. The automatic
openings shall have a minimum net area of not less than one square inch for
every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding unless a licensed
professional engineer or architect certifies that a smaller net area would
suffice. The owner or contractor may equip the automatic openings with screens,
louvers, valves or other coverings or devices if such devices permit the
automatic entry and exit of flood waters without any form of human
intervention; and
               b.   The enclosed area will be designed and constructed of flood
resistant materials in accordance with the standards of the FP-3 or FP-
4 classifications in the state’s Building Code and that the owner or occupants
shall only use such areas for building access, vehicle parking or storage.
      (2)   Basements, as defined by §
154.011 of this chapter, shall be subject to the following requirements.
         (a)   The city does not permit residential basement construction below
the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (b)   The city may permit non- residential basements below the
regulatory flood protection elevation; provided, the basement is structurally
dry flood-proofed according to the standards listed in division (D)(3) below.
      (3)   All areas of non-residential structures (including basements) that
would be below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be flood-proofed
to meet the structurally dry flood-proofing classifications in the state’s
Building Code. Structurally dry flood-proofing must meet the FP-1 or FP-
2 flood-proofing classification in the state’s Building Code. This flood-
proofing shall require making the structure water-tight with the walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effects of buoyancy. The city does not allow structures in the
flood fringe that the owners have flood-proofed to the FP-3 or FP-
4 classification in the state’s Building Code. The city does not allow
residential structures in the flood fringe that the owners have dry-flood-
proofed to the FP-1 or FP-2 flood-proofing classification in the state’s
Building Code.
      (4)   When at any one time a property owner or contractor wants to locate
more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or other similar material on a parcel for
activities such as on-site storage, landscaping, sand and gravel operations,
landfills, roads, dredge spoil disposal or construction of flood control works,
the owner or contractor shall submit an erosion/ sedimentation control plan to
the city for approval. The plan must clearly specify methods that an owner or
contractor shall use to stabilize the fill on site for a flood event at a
minimum of the 100-year or regional flood event. A registered professional
engineer must prepare the plan. The plan may incorporate alternative procedures
for removal of the material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning time
exists.
      (5)   (a)   The city prohibits the storage or processing of materials
that are, in time of flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to
human, animal or plant life.
         (b)   The city may allow the storage of other materials or equipment
if they would be readily removable from the area within the time available
after a flood warning is given and according to a plan that the city has
approved.
      (6)   The provisions of division (E) below also shall apply.
   (E)   Standards for all flood fringe uses.
      (1)   All new principal structures in the flood fringe district must have
vehicular access at or above an elevation not more than two feet below the
regulatory flood protection elevation. If the city approves a variance from
this requirement, the city must specify limitations on the period of use or
occupancy of the structure for times of flooding. In order to approve a
variance from this requirement, the city must determine that adequate flood
warning time and local flood emergency response procedures exist.
      (2)   Accessory commercial land uses, such as yards, railroad tracks, and
parking lots (if allowed by the underlying city zoning designation) may be at
elevations lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation. However, the
city shall not approve a permit for such facilities for use by employees or by
the general public in the absence of a flood warning system. Such a flood
warning system shall provide adequate time for evacuation if the area would be
inundated to a depth and velocity such that when multiplying the depth (in
feet) times velocity (in feet per second) the product number exceeds four upon
occurrence of the regional flood.
      (3)   Owners and operators of manufacturing and industrial uses shall
take measures to minimize the interference of normal plant operations from
flooding, especially those sites along streams or creeks that have protracted
flood durations. Certain accessory land uses such as yards and parking lots may
be at lower elevations subject to requirements set out in division (E)(1)
above. In considering development or permit applications for manufacturing or
industrial uses, the city shall give due consideration to the needs of an
industry whose business requires that it be located in floodplain areas.
      (4)   Contractors shall properly compact fill and properly protect the
slopes by using riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable methods. The
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for
removing the special flood hazard area designation for structures properly
elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s requirements
incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection standards for
multi-structure or multi-lot developments. The owner or contractor should
investigate these standards before starting the site preparation if requesting
a change of special flood hazard area designation.
      (5)   Floodplain developments shall not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system where the city has not specified a floodway or other
encroachment limit on the Official Zoning Map.
      (6)   Section 154.043(C) of this chapter lists the standards for the
placement and use of recreational vehicles in the Flood Fringe District.
      (7)   (a)   Owners and contractors shall securely anchor all manufactured
homes to an adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
         (c)   This requirement is in addition to applicable state or local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
(Prior Code, § 1301.05)
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 154.040 PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINING 100-YEAR FLOOD ELEVATIONS IN AREAS LOCATED
IN ZONE A OF THE FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP PANELS.
   (A)   Upon receiving an application for a permit or other approval for a
parcel located within Zone A of the Flood Insurance Rate Maps, the Community
Development Director or City Engineer will use the 1% annual chance flood
elevation for that basin that has previously been determined according to
approved FEMA methods, if available. If the 1% annual chance flood elevation
has not been previously determined, the applicant shall be required to furnish
all necessary information as deemed necessary by the Community Development
Director or the city for the determination for the 1% annual chance flood
elevation according to approved FEMA methods.
   (B)   The applicant shall be responsible to submit one copy of the above
information to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance in determining whether the proposed use is in the Floodway
or Flood Fringe District and to determine the 1% annual chance flood elevation
(100-year flood elevation). The owner, engineer and contractor shall follow the
procedures consistent with Minn. Rules parts 6120.5000 through 6120.6200 and 44
C.F.R. part 65 in this expert evaluation. The city encourages the designated
engineer or expert to discuss the proposed technical evaluation methodology
with the state’s Department of Natural Resources’ Area Hydrologist before
starting the analysis.
   (C)   Once the 1% annual chance flood elevation (100-year flood elevation)
has been determined, the Community Development Director or the City Engineer
shall process the permit application consistent with the applicable provisions
of §§
154.027 and
154.028 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1301.06)
§ 154.041 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Review criteria. No person or owner shall subdivide land that the city
decides is unsuitable for building or is unsuitable for new construction
because of flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. The city shall approve all subdivision requests (subject to the
requirements in
Ch. 158 and
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances to ensure that all lots within the
floodplain districts would have a building site outside of the Floodway
District at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation. All
subdivisions shall have access to public water and to the city sanitary sewer
system and facilities that meet the provisions of this chapter. All
subdivisions shall have road access both to the subdivision and to the
individual building sites no lower than two feet below the regulatory flood
protection elevation. For all subdivisions in the Floodway or Flood Fringe
District boundaries, the applicant, owner or project engineer shall clearly
label the regulatory flood protection elevation and the required elevation of
all access roads on all subdivision drawings and platting documents.
   (B)   Procedures for determining 1% annual chance flood elevation (100-year
flood elevation) in Zone A. In a designated Zone A area, applicants shall
provide the information required in §
154.040(B) of this chapter to determine the 100-year flood elevation and the
regulatory flood protection elevation for the subdivision site.
   (C)   Removal of special flood hazard area designation. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the
special flood hazard area designation for certain structures properly elevated
on fill above the 1% annual chance flood elevation (100-year flood elevation).
FEMA’s requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope
protection standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. The
applicant, owner or contractor should investigate these standards before
starting site preparation if requesting a change of special flood hazard area
designation.
(Prior Code, § 1301.07)
§ 154.042 PUBLIC UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS AND BRIDGES.
   (A)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
shall be flood-proofed according to the standards in the state’s Building Code
or shall be elevated to an elevation above the regulatory flood protection
elevation.
   (B)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads and bridges
to be located within the floodplain shall meet the requirements listed in §§
154.027 and
154.028 of this chapter. The owner or builder of these transportation
facilities shall elevate them to at least the regulatory flood protection
elevation where failure or interruption of these transportation facilities
would result in danger to the public health or safety or where such facilities
are essential to the orderly functioning of the area. The city may allow the
construction of minor or auxiliary roads or railroads at a lower elevation
where the failure or interruption of these secondary transportation services
would not endanger the public health, safety or welfare.
   (C)   Standards for on-site sewage treatment and water supply systems. In
instances where the city does not provide public utilities, the following
standards shall apply.
      (1)   The owners and builders of on-site water supply systems must design
and construct these systems to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood
waters into the systems.
      (2)   The owners and builders of new or replacement on-site sewage
treatment systems must design and construct these systems to minimize or
eliminate:
         (a)   Infiltration of flood waters into the utility systems; and
         (b)   The discharges from the utility systems into flood waters.
      (3)   On-site water supply and sewage treatment systems shall not be
subject to impairment or contamination during times of flooding.
      (4)   The city considers any sewage treatment system designed and
constructed according to the state’s current statewide standards for on-site
sewage treatment systems to be in compliance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 1301.08)
§ 154.043 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS; PLACEMENT OF
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing manufactured
home parks shall be subject to the provisions for subdivisions listed in §
154.041 of this chapter, to those listed in
Ch. 158 and
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The city will treat the placement of new or replacement
manufactured homes in existing manufactured home parks or on individual lots of
record that are in floodplain districts as a new structure and may be placed
only if elevated to meet the requirements in §
154.028 of this chapter. If pre-existing manufactured home parks do not provide
vehicular road access according to §
154.028(E)(1) of this chapter, then the city will not allow replacement
manufactured homes until the applicant or the property owner(s) develop a flood
warning emergency plan that is acceptable to the city.
      (2)   Owners and contractors shall securely anchor all manufactured homes
to an adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse
and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state or city anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces.
   (C)   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria
specified in division (C)(1) below shall be subject to the provisions of this
chapter and as specifically outlined in divisions (C)(3) and (C)(4) below.
      (1)   Exemptions. Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter if the owners or users place them in any of the exempted areas
listed in division (C)(2) below and if the vehicles meet all the following
criteria:
         (a)   Have current licenses required for street and highway use;
         (b)   Are highway-ready, meaning that they are on wheels or have an
internal jacking system. The owner must attach it to the site by quick
disconnect type utilities commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle
parks. The recreational vehicle also must not have any permanent structural
type additions attached to it; and
         (c)   The recreational vehicle and its associated use must be a
permitted land use in the existing, underlying city zoning district.
      (2)   Areas exempted for placement of recreational vehicles.
         (a)   Individual lots or parcels of record;
         (b)   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds;
and
         (c)   Existing condominium-type associations.
      (3)   Exempted recreational vehicles. Exempted recreational vehicles (as
exempted in division (C)(1) above lose their exemption if the owner constructs
improvements on the parcel that exceed $500 for a structural addition to the
recreational vehicle or exceed $500 for an accessory structure such as a garage
or storage building. The city will then consider the recreational vehicle and
all additions and accessory structures as new structures. These new structure
shall be subject to the elevation/ flood-proofing requirements and the use of
land restrictions specified in §§
154.027 and
154.028 of this chapter. The user or owner shall not make any development or
improvement on the parcel or attachment to the recreational vehicle that would
hinder the user or owner from being able to remove the recreational vehicle to
a flood-free location should a flood occur.
      (4)   New commercial recreational vehicles. New commercial recreational
vehicle parks or campgrounds, new residential subdivisions and condominium
associations and the expansion of any existing similar use exceeding five units
or dwelling sites shall be subject to all city code standards and the
following.
         (a)   The city will allow any new or replacement recreational vehicle
in the Floodway or Flood Fringe Districts provided the user or owner places the
recreational vehicle and its contents on fill above the regulatory flood
protection elevation and if there is elevated road access to the site that
meets the requirements of §
154.028(E)(1) of this chapter. No fill placed in the floodway to meet the
requirements of this section shall increase flood stages of the 100-year or
regional flood.
         (b)   As an alternative, the city may allow by conditional use all new
or replacement recreational vehicles not meeting the criteria of division (C)
(4)(a) above if the proposed use would meet the following provisions and the
provisions of §
154.058 of this chapter. In such a case, the property owner or the applicant
must submit an emergency plan prepared by a licensed professional engineer for
the safe evacuation of all vehicles and people during a 100-year flood. The
plan shall demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the
evacuation, and shall demonstrate that the plan will meet the provisions of
division (C)(1) above. The owner or contractor of all sewage and water
facilities for new or replacement recreational vehicles must ensure to
construct and protect the utility facilities are so that a flood would not
impair or contaminate those facilities during a flood as outlined in §
154.042(C) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1301.09)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.055 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR.
   The Community Development Director or other official designated by the City
Council shall administer and enforce this chapter. If the Community Development
Director finds a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Community
Development Director shall notify the person responsible for such violation
according to the procedures stated in §
154.060 of the chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1301.10)
§ 154.056 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. A property owner or contractor shall obtain a permit
from the city (if it meets the provisions of this chapter) before the:
      (1)   Erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation (including normal
maintenance and repair) or alteration of any building, structure or portion
thereof;
      (2)   Use or change of use of a building, structure or land;
      (3)   Construction of a dam or a fence;
      (4)   Change, extension or expansion of a non-conforming use;
      (5)   Repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire, tornado
or any other source; or
      (6)   Placement of fill, excavation of materials or the storage of
materials or equipment within the floodplain.
   (B)   Application for permit. The property owner or contractor shall make
application for a permit to the city on forms furnished by the city. The
applicant shall include the following information (where applicable):
      (1)   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill or
storage of materials; and
      (2)   The location of the foregoing in relation to the stream or
watercourse channel.
   (C)   State and federal permits. Before granting a permit or processing an
application for a conditional use permit or variance, the city shall determine
that the applicant has obtained all applicable watershed, state and federal
permits.
   (D)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered or non-conforming
use. It shall be unlawful for anyone to use, occupy or permit the use or
occupancy of any building or premises or part thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted, altered or enlarged in its use or structure until
the city has issued a certificate of zoning compliance. This certificate shall
state that the use of the building or land meets the requirements of this
chapter.
   (E)   Construction and use to be as provided on applications, plans,
permits, variances and certificates of zoning compliance. Permits, conditional
use permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued based on approved plans
and applications authorize only the use, arrangement and construction set forth
in such approved plans and applications. No person shall conduct any other use,
arrangement or construction on any site covered by such a permit or approval.
The city shall deem any use, arrangement, or construction different from what
the city authorized as a violation of this chapter, and is punishable as
outlined in §
154.060 of this chapter.
   (F)   Certification. The applicant shall submit certification prepared by a
licensed professional engineer, architect or land surveyor that the contractor
or owner met or exceeded the requirements of this chapter for the finished fill
and building elevations while meeting the provisions of this chapter. A
licensed engineer or architect must certify all flood-proofing measures.
   (G)   Record of first floor elevation. The city shall maintain a record of
the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new structures
and for alterations or additions to existing structures in the floodplain. The
city also shall maintain a record of the elevation to which the owners flood-
proofed their structures or to which the owners made alterations and additions.
The city will base these records on the as-built survey information submitted
by applicants, contractors or property owners.
   (H)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before the city authorizes
any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, the Community Development
Director or other designated city official shall notify adjacent cities and the
Commissioner of the state’s Department of Natural Resources of situations that
could affect the stream or a river. If the applicant has applied for a permit
to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to M.S. Ch. 103G, as it may be
amended from time to time, this shall suffice as adequate notice to the
Commissioner of the Department Natural Resources. The city also shall submit a
copy of the notification to the Chicago Regional Office of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   (I)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease the
100-year flood elevation. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six
months after the date such supporting information becomes available, the
Community Development Director shall notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA
of the physical changes affecting flood elevation by submitting a copy of the
technical or scientific data.
(Prior Code, § 1301.10)
§ 154.057 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Rules. The city establishes a Board of Adjustment and Appeals as
provided in §
33.025 of this code of ordinances. The Board shall adopt rules for the conduct
of business and may exercise all of the powers as allowed by state law and the
city code.
   (B)   Administrative review. The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall hear
and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Variances. The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may authorize, upon
appeal in specific cases, such relief or variance from the terms of this
chapter that would not be contrary to the public interest and only for those
circumstances such as hardship, practical difficulties or circumstances unique
to the property under consideration, as provided in state law or rules. In the
granting of such variance, the Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall clearly
identify in writing the specific conditions that existed consistent with the
criteria specified in this chapter, any other zoning regulations in the city,
and in the state legislation that justified granting the variance. No variance
shall have the effect of allowing in any district uses prohibited in that
zoning district, allow or permit a lower degree of flood protection than the
regulatory flood protection elevation for the particular area, or permit
standards lower than those required by state law. The following additional
variance criteria of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) also must
be satisfied.
      (1)   The city shall not approve variances within any designated
regulatory floodway if the variance would result in an increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge.
      (2)   The city shall only issue variances when there is a:
         (a)   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   Determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant or property owner; and
         (c)   Determination that the granting of a variance would not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or city ordinances.
      (3)   The city shall only approve variances upon determining that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford the
applicant relief.
   (D)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Board of Adjustment and Appeals an
appeal from a decision of the Community Development Director, or an application
for a variance, the Board shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing and shall
give due notice to the parties of interest as specified by law. The city shall
submit by mail to the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources a
copy of the application for proposed variances at least ten days before the
hearing.
   (E)   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on the appeal or
variance within the time limits as set by state law. When approving an appeal,
the Board of Adjustment and Appeals may, so long as such action meets the
provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination of the Community Development
Director or other city official. The Board shall make its decision in writing
setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons for its decisions. In
granting a variance, the Board may require conditions and safeguards such as
those specified in §
154.058(F) of this chapter. The city shall deem violations of such conditions
and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the city grants the
variance, a violation of this chapter punishable under the provisions listed in
§
154.060 of this chapter. The city shall forward by mail a copy of all decisions
granting variances to the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources
within ten days of the action.
   (F)   Appeals. Applicants or property owners may make appeals from any
decision of the Board as specified in the city code or by state statutes.
   (G)   Flood insurance notice and record keeping.
      (1)   The Community Development Director shall notify the applicant for a
variance that:
         (a)   Issuing a variance to construct a structure below the base flood
level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   The construction below the 100-year or regional flood level
increases risks to life and property.
      (2)   The city shall maintain a record of such notification with a record
of all variance actions. The city shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report the variances
issued in its annual or biennial report submitted to the Administrator of the
National Flood Insurance Program.
(Prior Code, § 1301.10)
§ 154.058 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The City Council shall hear and decide applications for conditional uses
permits permissible under this chapter. Applicants or property owners shall
submit applications for conditional use permits to the city’s Community
Development Department. City staff will then forward the application to the
Planning Commission for consideration. After taking action on the request, the
Planning Commission shall refer the application to the City Council for a
decision.
   (A)   Hearings. Upon receiving an application for a conditional use permit,
the city shall submit to the Commissioner of the Department of Natural
Resources by mail a copy of the application for proposed conditional use permit
at least ten days before the city holds the public hearing.
   (B)   Decisions. The City Council shall arrive at a decision on a
conditional use permit within the time limits as set by state law. In granting
a conditional use permit, the City Council shall prescribe conditions and
safeguards, in addition to those specified in division (F) below, that are
consistent with the purposes of this chapter and of those in the city code. The
city shall deem violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part
of the terms that the city grants the conditional use permit, a violation of
this chapter punishable under the provisions listed in §
154.060 of this chapter. The city shall forward by mail a copy of all decisions
granting conditional use permits to the Commissioner of Department of Natural
Resources within ten days of the action.
   (C)   Procedures. The following is a listing of the procedures that the city
shall follow when considering conditional use permit applications in all
Floodplain Districts.
      (1)   The applicant shall furnish the following information and any
additional information as the city or city staff deems necessary for the City
Council to determine the suitability of the particular site for the proposed
use:
         (a)   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, flood-proofing measures and the relationship of the above
to the location of the stream channel; and
         (b)   Specifications for building construction and materials, flood-
proofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
      (2)   Transmit one copy of the information described in division (C)(1)
above to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for technical
assistance, where necessary, in evaluating the proposed project in relation to
flood heights and velocities, the seriousness of flood damage to the use, the
adequacy of the plans for protection and other technical matters. The applicant
or responsible party shall be responsible for all the costs of this review.
      (3)   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer or
expert, the city shall determine the specific flood hazard at the site and
evaluate the suitability of the proposed use in relation to the flood hazard.
   (D)   Relevant factors. When reviewing applications and making decisions
about conditional use permits, the Planning Commission and the City Council
shall consider all relevant factors specified in this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments in the floodplain, floodway or channel;
      (2)   The danger that water or flooding may sweep materials onto other
lands or downstream to the injury of others or they may block bridges, culverts
or other hydraulic structures;
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
      (5)   The importance of the services that proposed facility would provide
to the city;
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use;
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the near future;
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the city’s Comprehensive
Plan and floodplain management program for the area;
      (10)   The safety and availability of vehicle access to the property in
times of flood for non-emergency and for emergency vehicles;
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and
      (12)   Such other factors that the city decides are relevant to the
purposes of this chapter and of those in the city code.
   (E)   Time for acting on application. The City Council shall act on an
application in the manner described above within 60 days from receiving the
application; except that, where additional information is required pursuant to
the provisions listed in division (D)(3) above and as allowed by state law. The
city shall provide the applicant a written decision about the need for
additional information within the time limits specified by state law.
   (F)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. Upon considering the
factors listed above and the purpose of this chapter, the City Council may
attach conditions as a part of the approval of conditional use permit as it
deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter and of those listed in
the city code. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Modification of waste disposal and treatment and water supply
facilities;
      (2)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy and operation;
      (3)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed restrictions;
      (4)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees and other protective measures; and
      (5)   Flood-proofing measures that meet the requirements of the state’s
Building Code and this chapter. The applicant shall submit a plan or document
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that the flood-
proofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation
and associated flood factors for the particular area.
(Prior Code, § 1301.10)
§ 154.059 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   The owner or operator of a structure or the use of a structure or premises
that was lawful before the city adopts this chapter, but that does not meet the
provisions of this chapter may continue to own and use the structure and
property, subject to the following conditions (there are no known historic
structures in the city).
   (A)   No owner or operator shall expand, change, enlarge or alter a non-
conforming use or structure in a way that increases its non-conformity.
   (B)   (1)   The owner or operator proposing to alter or add on to, or make
any change to a non-conforming structure, property or non-conforming use in the
floodway or flood fringe district may do so if:
         (a)   They protect the entire building, structure or use to the
regulatory flood protection elevation; or
         (b)   The alterations or changes would occur within the inside
dimensions of the building or structure and if the construction methods for the
alteration uses flood resistant materials that do not result in an increase to
the flood damage potential of that use or structure.
      (2)   In all cases, the owner or operator must provide the required
protection in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or flood-proofing
techniques (such as, FP-1 through FP-4 flood-proofing classifications)
allowable in the state’s Building Code, except as further restricted in
divisions (C) and (F) below.
   (C)   The cost of all structural alterations or additions to any non-
conforming structure over the life of the structure shall not exceed 50% of the
market value of the structure unless the owner satisfies the conditions of this
section. The cost of all structural alterations and additions must include all
costs such as construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all
manpower or labor. If the cost of all previous and proposed alterations and
additions exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure, then the structure
must meet the standards of §§
154.027 and
154.028 of this chapter for new structures depending upon whether the structure
is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively.
   (D)   If the owner or operator of a building or a property discontinues any
non-conforming use for 12 consecutive months, then thereafter owner or operator
and the use of the building or the premises shall meet all the provisions of
this chapter. The city shall request that the County Assessor notify the city
in writing of instances where the county has information about the user or
property owner having discontinued the use of a non-conforming use or property
for a period of 12 months.
   (E)   (1)   If any non-conforming use or structure is substantially damaged,
as defined in §
154.011 of this chapter, the owner shall not reconstruct the use or structure,
except when such construction or reconstruction would meet the provisions of
this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new uses or new
structures listed in §§
154.027 and
154.028 of this chapter will apply depending upon whether the use or structure
is in the Floodway, Flood Fringe or General Floodplain District, respectively.
The city does not allow the owner of a non-conforming structure that is in the
floodway that is substantially damaged to repair or reconstruct the structure.
      (2)   Any non-conforming use that the city determines is a nuisance shall
not be entitled to continue as a non-conforming use.
   (F)   If an owner or user of a property makes a substantial improvement to a
property, as defined in §
154.011 of this chapter, including any combination of a building or structural
addition to the outside dimensions of the existing building or a
rehabilitation, reconstruction, alteration, or other improvement to the inside
dimensions of an existing non-conforming building, then the building addition
and the existing non-conforming building must meet the requirements of §§
154.027 and
154.028 of this chapter for new structures, depending upon whether the
structure is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively. A non-
conforming structure shall not be substantially improved if the structure is
located in the floodway.
(Prior Code, § 1301.11)
§ 154.060 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The violation of the provisions of this chapter or the failure to meet
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with the approval of variances or conditional use
permits) shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by
law or by the city code.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the city from taking lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. Such actions may
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   In responding to a suspected chapter violation, the Community
Development Director and the city may use the full array of enforcement actions
available to it including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The city will act in good faith to enforce
these official controls and to get responsible parties to correct violations to
the extent possible so as not to jeopardize eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
      (2)   When a violation of this chapter is either discovered by or brought
to the attention of the Community Development Director or the city, the
Community Development Director shall immediately investigate the situation and
document the nature and extent of the possible violation. As soon as is
reasonably possible, the city shall submit this information to the state’s
Department of Natural Resources and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
Regional Office along with the city’s plan of action to have the property owner
or responsible party correct the violation to the degree possible.
      (3)   The Community Development Director shall notify the suspected
responsible party or property owner of the requirements of this chapter and all
other official controls and the nature and extent of the suspected violation of
these controls. If the structure or use is under construction or development,
the Community Development Director may order the owner or contractor to stop
immediately all construction or development activities until the city grants a
permit or approval for the proposed construction or development. If the owner,
contractor or developer has already completed the construction or development,
then the city or the Community Development Director may either:
         (a)   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that the owner
or responsible party must make within a specified time period to bring the use
or structure into compliance with the official controls; or
         (b)   Notify the responsible party to apply to the city for an after-
the-fact permit/ development approval within a specified period of time not to
exceed 30 days.
      (4)   If the responsible party does not respond to the city or to the
Community Development Director within the specified period of time, each
additional day that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this
chapter and the city shall prosecute the responsible party accordingly. Upon
the lapse of the specified response period, the city or the Community
Development Director shall notify the responsible party or landowner to restore
the land or structure to the condition that existed before the violation of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1301.12)
§ 154.061 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The floodplain designation on the city’s Floodplain Zoning Map shall
not be removed from floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the
designation is in error or that the area has been filled to or above the
elevation of the regulatory flood protection elevation and is contiguous to
lands outside the floodplain. The Commissioner of the Department of Natural
Resources may approve special exceptions to this requirement if the
Commissioner determines that, through other measures, lands are adequately
protected for the intended use.
   (B)   The city must submit all proposed amendments to this chapter,
including amendments to the Official Zoning Map, for approval by the
Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources before the city adopts such
amendments. Changes in the Official Zoning Map must meet the Federal Emergency
Management Agency’s (FEMA’s) technical conditions and criteria and must receive
approval from FEMA before adoption. The city must give the Commissioner of the
Department of Natural Resources at least ten days’ written notice of all
hearings to consider an amendment to this chapter. The notice shall include a
draft of the chapter amendment or technical study that the city is considering.
(Prior Code, § 1301.13)
CHAPTER 155: SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE MANAGEMENT
AND DEVELOPMENT CONTROL
Section
   
155.001   Findings of fact
   
155.002   Purposes
   
155.003   Applicability
   
155.004   Definitions
   
155.005   Local Water Management Plan
   
155.006   Required facilities
   
155.007   Design standards
   
155.008   Variances and appeals
   
155.009   Responsibility
 
   
155.999   Penalty
§ 155.001 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The public interest necessitates sound land use development as land is
a limited and irreplaceable resource and the land within the municipality is a
resource to be developed in a manner which will result in minimum damage to the
quality of life and to property and threat to health and reductions of private
and public economic loss caused by drainage problems.
   (B)   The existing drainage system in the city, in general, adequately meets
the needs of the city. However, the storm drainage system will not, in the
future, provide adequate or proper drainage in those areas of the city subject
to substantial residential, commercial or industrial development unless the
large increase in storm water runoff that is known to result from the
development is properly controlled and regulated. The consequence of not
restricting the increase in runoff would be to subject a major portion of the
lands of the city to high water tables, drainage problems, storm water flooding
by heavy rains, inadequate drainage facilities, causing erosion, damage to
property, disruption of residential, commercial and governmental services,
unsanitary conditions and interruptions of transportation, all of which would
be detrimental to the health, safety, welfare and property of affected
residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1301.01) (Ord. 507, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 155.002 PURPOSES.
   (A)   The efforts of the city’s water management programs are to prevent
flooding and improve water quality through the best possible utilization of
wetlands and artificial detention areas. Wetland management, as opposed to
preservation, will allow the city to maintain the integrity of its wetlands
while improving water quality and reducing the city maintenance efforts.
   (B)   To guide and control new development of lands within the city in ways
that will be consistent with the zoning laws and Comprehensive Development Plan
in force at the time of the development, consistent with the requirements of
Rice Creek Watershed District, this municipal code, state statutes and other
regulatory agencies and consistent with sound economic policies as such
policies affect property owners and the proponents of new developments and to
require proponents of new developments to adopt sound development plans and
proposals that will cause no economic burden both as to storm waters or
drainage on the owners of abutting or adjoining properties or affected
properties or on the property owners of the city at large.
(Prior Code, § 1301.02) (Ord. 507, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 155.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The requirements adopted herein shall apply to all development
proposals that are subject to the provisions of §
150.054 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If this chapter or any provision herein is held to be applicable to
any person, property or work, the holding shall not affect the applicability
hereof to any other person, property or work.
(Prior Code, § 1301.02) (Ord. 507, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 155.004 DEFINITIONS.
   Definitions related to this chapter are contained in the Local Surface Water
Management Plan.
(Prior Code, § 1301.03) (Ord. 507, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 155.005 LOCAL WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   The Local Surface Water Management Plan was prepared for the city in
accordance with M.S. §§ 103B.201 through 103B.255, as they may be amended from
time to time. The plan and policies of providing for future development while
minimizing surface water problems. The goals, policies and development
guidelines in the Local Surface Water Management Plan are hereby incorporated
by reference into this chapter. A copy is on file in the office of the City
Administrator for public use and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 1301.04) (Ord. 507, passed 04-27-1992; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010)
§ 155.006 REQUIRED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Facilities required. The city may, at its sole discretion, require
retention and/or detention areas and associated water quality improvement
structures for any development proposal to meet conveyance systems.
   (B)   Performance guarantee. Whenever privately owned and maintained
drainage improvements shall be required for a development by the city, the
developer shall provide a seven-year maintenance/performance guarantee to
assure proper maintenance and operation of such improvements. In such cases,
the developer shall also hold the city harmless for any defect in design,
construction or operation.
   (C)   Financial responsibility. Drainage facility improvements required for
any development proposal shall be the financial responsibility of the
developer.
(Prior Code, § 1301.05) (Ord. 507, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 155.007 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Storm sewer system required for any development shall be constructed to at
least a five-year frequency storm design; retention basins shall be constructed
to retain at lease a 100-year storm while allowing, at a maximum, the amount of
runoff from the property that will occur in its undeveloped state resulting
from a five-year storm.
(Prior Code, § 1301.06) (Ord. 507, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 155.008 VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Processing of application. Any application for variances or appeals
shall be processed according to the procedures specified in
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Restrictions on granting variances. No variance may be granted which
would allow any use that is prohibited in the zoning district in which the
property is located or which would:
      (1)   Result in incompatible land uses or which would be detrimental to
the protection of surface and ground water supplies;
      (2)   Increase the financial burdens imposed on the community through
increasing floods and overflow of water onto land areas within the city or onto
land areas adjacent to Rice Creek;
      (3)   Be not in keeping with land use plans and planning objectives for
the city or which would increase or cause danger to life or property; or
      (4)   Be inconsistent with the goals, policies and development guidelines
of the Local Surface Water Management Plan dated 02-12-1990, subject to
subsequent revisions.
   (C)   Required supporting data. No permit or variance shall be issued unless
the applicant, in support of the application, shall submit engineering data,
surveys, site plans and other information as the city may require in order to
determine the effects of such development on the affected land and water area.
(Prior Code, § 1301.07) (Ord. 507, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 155.009 RESPONSIBILITY.
   Neither the issuance of a permit, nor compliance with the conditions
thereof, nor the provisions of this chapter shall relieve any person from any
responsibility otherwise imposed by law for damages to persons or property, nor
shall the issuance of any permit hereunder serve to impose any liability on the
municipality or its officers or employees for injury or damage to person or
property. A permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall not relieve the
permittee of the responsibility of complying with any other requirements
established by law, regulation or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1301.08) (Ord. 507, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day during which the violation exists is a separate offense.
Any violation of this chapter is a public nuisance and may be enjoined by civil
action. Costs of any civil enforcement shall be assessed against the party so
enjoined. Any person who, in violation of this chapter, alters, changes or
modifies any surface water drainage facilities shall restore the facilities to
their original condition within the time limit set by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1301.09) (Ord. 507, passed 04-27-1992)
CHAPTER 156: CONSTRUCTION SITE AND LAND DISTURBANCE RUNOFF CONTROL
Section
   
156.001   Findings of fact
   
156.002   Purpose
   
156.003   Definitions
   
156.004   General conformance
   
156.005   Conflict with other laws
   
156.006   Land disturbance permit
   
156.007   Submittal requirements
   
156.008   Permit review and approval process
   
156.009   Enforcement actions
 
   
156.999   Penalty
§ 156.001 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The city hereby finds that uncontrolled land disturbance activities are
subject to soil erosion and other pollutants which enter into receiving water
bodies adversely affecting the public health, safety and general welfare by
impacting water quality, creating nuisances, impairing other beneficial uses of
environmental resources and hindering the ability of the city to provide
adequate water, sewage, flood control and other community services.
(Prior Code, § 1303.01)
§ 156.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapter is to promote, preserve and enhance the natural
resources within the city and protect them from adverse effects occasioned by
poorly sited development or incompatible activities by regulating land
disturbance activities that would have an adverse and potentially irreversible
impact on water quality and environmentally sensitive land; by minimizing
conflicts and encouraging proper installation and maintenance of best
management practices (BMPs) for land disturbance activities; and by requiring
detailed review standards and procedures for land disturbance activities
proposed for such areas.
(Prior Code, § 1303.02)
§ 156.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person or group that applies for a permit to allow land
disturbance activities. APPLICANT also means that person’s agents, employees
and others acting under this person’s or group’s direction. The term APPLICANT
also refers to the permit holder or holders and the permit holder’s agents,
employees and others acting under this person’s or group’s direction.
   APPROVAL. The proposed work or completed work conform to this chapter in the
opinion of the city.
   CITY. The administrative staff, or its agent, of the City of Mounds View.
   COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A contiguous area where multiple
separate and distinct land disturbance activities may be taking place at
different times, or on different schedules, but under one proposed plan
including, but not limited to, mass site grading, utility installation, street
construction and home or building construction. This item is broadly defined to
include design, permit application, advertisement or physical demarcation
indicating that land disturbance activities may occur.
   EARTHEN MATERIAL. Any rock, natural soil or fill and/or any combination
thereof.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the movement
of wind, water and/or ice.
   EROSION CONTROL. Methods employed to prevent erosion. Examples include soil
stabilization practices, horizontal slope grading, temporary or permanent cover
and construction phasing.
   EXCAVATION. The mechanical removal of earthen material.
   FILL. A deposit of earthen material occurring via human activity.
   FINAL STABILIZATION. All soil disturbance activities on the site or common
plan of development or sale have been completed, and that a uniform evenly
distributed (for example, without large bare areas), perennial vegetative cover
with a density of at least 70% of the cover for unpaved areas and areas not
covered by permanent structures has been established, or equivalent permanent
stabilization measures have been employed, and that all temporary erosion
control devises are removed, including silt fence, temporary sedimentation
basins and temporary standpipes. Simply sowing grass seed and/or mulch is not
considered FINAL STABILIZATION. FINAL STABILIZATION of a common plan of
development or sale includes completion of building or home construction along
with final restoration of all yards and adjacent drainage ways and shall be in
conformance with the NPDES construction general permit part IV.G.
   GRADE. The vertical location of the ground surface.
   GRADING. Any excavating or filling or combination thereof.
   LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. Any land change that may result in soil erosion
from water or wind and the movement of sediment into or upon waters or lands
within the city’s jurisdiction, including construction, clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land.
   LAND DISTURBANCE PLAN. A joint storm water and erosion and sediment control
plan that is a document containing the requirements of this chapter and the
city’s Land Disturbance Plan and implementation requirements, that when
implemented will decrease soil erosion on a parcel of land and off-site non-
point pollution. It involves both temporary and permanent controls.
   NPDES or NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. A provision of the
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., that prohibits discharge of
pollutants into waters of the United States unless a special permit is issued
by the EPA, a state or a tribal government.
   PERMANENT CONTROLS. Erosion and/or sediment control measures installed that
are not intended to be removed from the project site. Examples of such
protection are swales, ponds, sediment basins, turf reinforcement mats, storm
sewer systems and riprap.
   PERMANENT COVER. Examples including grass, gravel, asphalt and concrete. See
also the definition of FINAL STABILIZATION.
   PERMIT. A written warrant or license granted for land disturbance
activities.
   SEDIMENT. The product of an erosion process; solid material both mineral and
organic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved by
water, wind or ice, and has come to rest either above or below water level.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process or action of depositing sediment.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. The methods employed to prevent sediment from leaving a
site. Examples of SEDIMENT CONTROL practices are silt fences, sediment traps,
earth dikes, drainage swales, check dams, subsurface drains, storm drain inlet
protection and temporary or permanent sedimentation basins.
   SITE. Any lot or parcel of land or contiguous combination thereof, under the
same ownership, where a land disturbance activity is performed or permitted.
   SLOPE. An inclined ground surface the inclination of which is expressed as a
ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance.
   SOIL. Naturally occurring superficial deposits overlying bedrock.
   STORM WATER. Precipitation runoff, storm water runoff, snow melt runoff and
any other surface runoff and drainage, as defined under Minn. Rules part
7077.0105, subpart 41b.
   SWPPP. The Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan is a document that
describes a process whereby a facility thoroughly evaluates potential pollutant
sources at a site and selects and implements appropriate measures designed to
prevent or control the discharge of pollutants in storm water runoff.
   WETLANDS. As defined in Minn. Rules part 6105.0354, Subp. 35, are those
areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions. WETLANDS generally include swamps, marshes, bogs
and similar areas. Constructed WETLANDS designed for wastewater treatment are
not waters of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1303.03) (Ord. 914, passed 04-25-2016)
§ 156.004 GENERAL CONFORMANCE.
   The owner of a site or manager of a common plan of development or sale shall
be responsible for maintaining any land disturbance activity in such a way as
not to create a hazard to life and limb; or endanger the environment; or
adversely affect the safety, use or stability of a property, public way or
drainage channel; or deposit sediment on or into adjacent properties, rights-
of-way, drainage systems or wetlands until final stabilization has been
achieved.
Whenever the city determines that any land disturbance activity has become a
hazard to life and limb; or endangers the environment; or adversely affects the
safety, use or stability of a property, public way or drainage channel; or
deposits sediment on or into adjacent properties, rights-of-way, drainage
systems or wetlands, the owner of the property upon which the land disturbance
activity is located, or other person or agent in control of the property, upon
receipt of notice in writing from the city, shall within the period specified
therein repair or eliminate the land disturbance activity so as to eliminate
the hazard and be in conformance with the requirements of this chapter. The
city may inspect any property for conformance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1303.04)
§ 156.005 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   If the requirements of this chapter are in conflict with any other law, the
stricter requirements shall be enforced.
(Prior Code, § 1303.05)
§ 156.006 LAND DISTURBANCE PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit applicability. Except as exempted in division (D) below, no
person shall conduct any land disturbance activity without first obtaining a
land disturbance permit from the city. A separate permit shall be required for
each site or common plan of development or sale, and may cover both excavations
and fills. Any changes or deviation from previously reviewed plans require an
amended permit be applied for and approved before the work is performed.
   (B)   Land disturbance permit fees. A fee for each land disturbance permit
shall be paid to the city as per the city’s approved fee schedule.
   (C)   Expiration. Every permit issued by the city under the provisions of
this chapter shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the work
authorized by such permit is not commenced within 90 days from the date of
issuance of the permit, or if the work authorized by the permit is suspended or
abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of 180 days.
Before the work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first obtained to do
so and the fee therefor shall be per the city’s approved fee schedule;
provided, no changes have been made or will be made in the original plans and
specifications for the work; and, provided further that, the suspension or
abandonment has not exceeded one year. In order to renew action on a permit
after expiration, the permittee shall pay a new full permit fee. Any permittee
holding an unexpired permit may apply for an extension of the time within which
the permittee may commence work under that permit when the permittee is unable
to commence work within the time required by this section for good and
satisfactory reasons. The city may extend the time for action by the permittee
for a period not exceeding 180 days upon written request by the permittee
showing that circumstances beyond the control of the permittee showing that
circumstances beyond the control of the permittee have prevented action from
being taken. No permit shall be extended more than once.
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   No person shall do any land disturbance activity without first
obtaining a land disturbance permit from the city; except that, no permit shall
be required for the following activities:
         (a)   A land disturbance activity which meets all of the following
requirements:
            1.   Is located in an isolated, self-contained area and does not
have the potential to discharge water from the site or into natural water
bodies within the site;
            2.   There is no danger apparent to private and/or public property;
            3.   Does not infringe upon any wetland or ponding area or impede
any drainage course;
            4.   The total area of disturbance is less than one acre and is not
part of a common plan of development or sale that is equal to or greater than
one acre;
            5.   The total volume of disturbed, stockpiled, disposed of or used
as fill does not exceed 50 cubic yards; and
            6.   Is an excavation that is less than two feet in depth and does
not create a cut slope greater than five feet in height, or is steeper than two
horizontal to one vertical or is a fill that is less than two feet in depth and
place on natural terrain with a slope flatter than three horizontal to one
vertical or is less than three feet in depth, not intended to support
structures.
         (b)   Any land disturbance activity that disturbs less than one acre
and disturbs, stockpiles, disposes of, or uses fill more than 50 cubic yards
and has received a written waiver to apply for land disturbance activities by
the city. Waivers will be considered on an individual basis depending on
drainage characteristics or risk of environmental or property damage;
         (c)   Refuse disposal site controlled by other regulations, laws or
the city code;
         (d)   Excavation for wells or tunnels or utilities controlled by other
regulations, laws or the city code;
         (e)   Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing, stockpiling of rock,
sand, gravel, aggregate or clay where established and provided for by law or
ordinance. This shall not exempt these types of activities from the conditional
permit requirements set forth by the city code;
         (f)   Tilling, planting or harvesting of agricultural, horticultural
or forestry crops;
         (g)   Exploratory excavations and borings under the direction of
geotechnical engineers or engineering geologists;
         (h)   Emergency work necessary to protect life, limb or property;
         (i)   City, county, state or federal agency projects whose plans and
specifications meet the requirements of this chapter and are reviewed and
approved by the city under a separate process;
         (j)   A lot for which a building permit has been approved on or before
the effective date of this chapter;
         (k)   Any part of a subdivision if a final plat for the subdivision
has been approved by the City Council on or before the effective date of this
chapter; and
         (l)   Installation of fence, sign, telephone and electric poles and
other kinds of posts or poles.
      (2)   Exemption from the permit requirements of this chapter shall not be
deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the appropriate best management practices set forth in the city’s
Land Disturbance Plan and implementation requirements.
(Prior Code, § 1303.06) (Ord. 914, passed 04-25-2016)
§ 156.007 SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit application. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file
an application on a form furnished by the city for that purpose. Every such
application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for
which application is made;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal
description, street address or similar description that will readily identify
and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
      (3)   Indicate the purpose of the proposed work;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans, diagrams, computations and specifications
and other data as required in division (C) below;
      (5)   State the valuation of the work;
      (6)   Create a land disturbance plan as required by division (C) below;
      (7)   Be signed by the permittee or authorized agent;
      (8)   Give such other data and information as may be required by the
city; and
      (9)   Approximate start date and anticipated date of completion.
   (B)   Financial security.
      (1)   Security required. The applicant shall provide the city with
financial security to ensure the performance of the applicant’s obligation
pursuant to this chapter. The financial security may be in the form of a bond,
letter of credit, escrow deposit or cash. The financial security must be
provided to the city upon the submittal of the permit application. The city may
use the financial security to assure that the work is completed in accordance
with the submitted plans and specifications and the provisions of this chapter.
The financial security may also be used by the city to eliminate any hazardous
conditions associated with the work and to repair any damage to public property
or infrastructure that is caused by the work. Applicants who are applying for
land disturbance permit for projects that consist of one lot with one single-
family home are exempt from the financial security requirement of this chapter,
so long as the city determines that there is no potential for environmental
degradation.
      (2)   Amount of security. The amount of security shall be 125% of the
estimated cost to accomplish compliance with the approved land disturbance
permit or $2,000, whichever is greater, in addition to any other security
performance required by any other regulations in this code. The estimated cost
shall be subject to approval by the city’s Public Works Department.
      (3)   Reduction of financial security. If requested by the applicant, the
amount of the financial security may be reduced by the city, subsequent to city
inspection. The reduction will be based upon the extent to which the grading
and restoration have been completed and shall consider the continued need for
erosion control. At no time prior to final stabilization, shall the security be
reduced to less than 10% of the total original security amount.
      (4)   Release of security. Any remaining amount of the financial security
deposited with the city for faithful performance of the plans and
specifications and any related remedial work will be released after the
completion and inspection of all such measures and the establishment of final
stabilization, for the permitted site or common plan of development or sale.
      (5)   City remedy. If compliance with the approved land disturbance
permit is not accomplished within the allowable time period, the city may bring
the project into compliance by use of the security.
      (6)   Exemptions. The city shall be exempt from the requirements of this
section.
   (C)   Land disturbance plan. Each application for a land disturbance permit
shall be accompanied by copies of a land disturbance plan consisting of the
following dependent upon the type and size of land disturbance activity
conducted as described below:
      (1)   For any individual residential lots or commercial and industrial
land disturbing less than one acre; and fill or excavate less than 100 cubic
yards:
         (a)   Identification of proposed contour grading on the site at
vertical intervals of not more than two feet;
         (b)   Drainage patterns clearly shown using arrows depicting direction
of flow;
         (c)   A map showing the stages or limits of grading together with the
existing or proposed finished elevations based on sea level readings;
         (d)   Identification of proposed building bench elevations;
         (e)   Submission of preliminary plans or program for water supply,
sewage disposal, drainage and flood control;
         (f)   Soil borings, if required by the City Engineer;
         (g)   Appropriate best management practices set forth in this chapter
and the city’s Land Disturbance Plan and implementation requirements developed
by the city; and
         (h)   Other information as required by the city based on specific
project characteristics.
      (2)   For all subdivisions and commercial or industrial sites in which
land disturbance activities will impact one or more acre; or fill or excavate
over 100 cubic yards, whichever is more restrictive; or any other site if
determined appropriate by the City Engineer due to potential impacts to
wetlands or sensitive receiving waters.
         (a)   Grading plan. A grading plan shall be provided that clearly
indicates the proposed land disturbance activities. Both existing and proposed
topography shall be shown and have a maximum contour interval of two feet.
Drainage patterns shall be clearly shown using arrows depicting direction of
flow. Other information shall be shown as required by the city based on
specific project characteristics.
         (b)   Phasing plan. A phasing plan shall be provided that clearly
indicates the areas in the order they are to be disturbed and restored. The
phasing plan shall consider minimization of area and duration of exposed soil
and unstable conditions, minimization of the disturbance of natural soil cover
and vegetation, erosion and sediment control measure installation, weather
conditions and the schedule for temporary and permanent restoration. The area
and duration of each phase shall be indicated on the plan.
         (c)   Pond detail sheet. A pond detail sheet shall be provided for
each proposed storm water pond that shows detailed pond design including normal
water level, high water level, aquatic bench, maintenance bench, outlet
structures, emergency overflow locations and other project specific data
required by the city.
         (d)   Standard detail sheet. A standard detail sheet shall be provided
that consists of applicable construction details for approved erosion and
sediment control measures as developed by the city. Other techniques may be
used upon prior approval by the city with details provided by the designer.
         (e)   Specifications. Written specifi- cations for land disturbance
activities such as product descriptions, installation and maintenance
procedures required by the applicant to carry out the project in accordance
with this chapter.
         (f)   Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) as required under
the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) storm water permit
issued by the MPCA.
            1.   General. The SWPPP shall consist of three components:
               a.   A temporary erosion and sediment control plan;
               b.   A permanent erosion and sediment control plan; and
               c.   A narrative.
            2.   Temporary erosion and sediment control plan. Shall be provided
that indicates the location of perimeter controls, construction fence,
temporary sedimentation basins, inlet protection, areas to be seeded, areas to
be mulched or blanketed, location of construction waste control (dumpsters,
chemical storage, concrete washout, portable restroom facilities and the like)
and all other required temporary erosion and sediment control measures as
described in the city’s land disturbance and implementation requirements. This
plan shall also indicate staging of temporary erosion control measures.
            3.   Permanent erosion and sediment control plan. Shall be provided
that indicates areas to be seeded and sodded, sediment ponds, storm sewer
systems and all other required permanent erosion and sediment control measures.
Permanent storm water pollution controls including, but not limited to, ponds,
vegetated buffers and structural measures shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with other chapters of the city code and requirements of other
agencies having jurisdiction.
            4.   Narrative. Shall be provided that describes, at a minimum, the
nature of construction activity, person(s) responsible for inspection and
maintenance of site erosion and sediment control including contact information,
project phasing, schedules, along with the timing, installation and maintenance
of erosion and sediment control measures and specifications necessary to carry
out the project.
   (D)   NPDES permit documentation. The property owner’s agent shall apply for
and be issued a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general
storm water permit from the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA); and
shall submit to the city a copy of the MPCA certificate of permit coverage.
(Prior Code, § 1303.07) (Ord. 914, passed 04-25-2016)
§ 156.008 PERMIT REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Process.
      (1)   Land disturbance plans meeting the requirements of §
156.007(C) of this chapter and minimum best management practices requirements
of the city’s land disturbance and implementation requirements will be reviewed
administratively by city staff and/or by the City Council.
      (2)   If the land disturbance plan indicates land disturbance of three or
more acres, the land disturbance plan shall be reviewed by the City Council.
The City Council may approve, approve with conditions or deny the land
disturbance plan. If applicable, City Council action on the land disturbance
plan must be accomplished within 60 days following the date the application for
approval is filed with the city.
      (3)   If the land disturbance plan indicates land disturbance of less
than three acres, the land disturbance plan may be approved administratively by
city staff, unless it is determined that City Council review is necessary. City
staff may approve, approve with conditions or deny the land disturbance plan.
For administrative reviews, city action on the plan will normally be
accomplished within 14 days following the date the application for approval is
filed with the city. Land disturbance plans denied at the staff level may be
appealed to the City Council for Council review by the applicant, if the appeal
is filed in writing within 14 days of the denial.
   (B)   Approval standards.
      (1)   Generally. All sites with land disturbance activities shall be
prepared and maintained to control against erosion and sedimentation as set
forth in this chapter and the city’s land disturbance plan and implementation
requirements.
      (2)   Erosion and sediment control. Temporary and permanent erosion and
sediment control measures shall be installed on all sites as necessary to
prevent erosion and sedimentation from impacting any adjacent property, rights-
of-way, drainage system, lake, pond, wetland, watercourse, natural resource or
other protected area. The site shall include applicable BMPs to minimize the
erosion and discharge of sediment and other pollutants as described in the
NPDES construction general permit part IV.B. and part IV.C.
      (3)   Implementation of land disturbance plan. All erosion and sediment
control measures must be operational prior to the start of any land disturbance
activity as specified in the SWPPP, construction plans and specifications, the
city’s land disturbance plan and implementation requirements, or as deemed
necessary by the city based on actual site conditions.
      (4)   Site dewatering. Water pumped from the site shall be treated by
temporary sedimentation basins, grit chambers, sand filters, upflow chambers,
hydrocyclones, swirl concentrators or other applicable BMPs for dewatering
activities as described in the NPDES construction general permit part IV.D.
Water may not be discharged in a manner that causes erosion, scour or flooding
of the site or receiving channels or a wetland.
      (5)   Inspection. Inspection of the land disturbance plan measures will
be carried out as required by the city approved land disturbance permit
conditions of approval and the city’s land disturbance plan and implementation
requirements. All storm water management BMPs shall be inspected weekly or
after every one-half inch or greater rain event by the applicant. Site
inspections and record of rainfall events shall comply with the NPDES
construction general permit part IV.E.
      (6)   Maintenance. All erosion and sediment control measures must be
maintained throughout the duration of the project. Deficiencies found through
inspection of a site shall be repaired as necessary to bring the site into
conformance with this chapter, the plans and specifications, the city’s land
disturbance plan and implementation requirements as set forth in the land
disturbance permit conditions of approval, and with the NPDES construction
general permit part IV.E. At minimum, land disturbance plan items shall be
maintained as follows.
         (a)   If a perimeter erosion control device is found to have sediment
accumulation in excess of one-third of the total device height, the sediment
shall be removed within 24 hours of discovery.
         (b)   If an erosion control device is found to be non-functional, it
shall be repaired or replaced within 24 hours of discovery.
         (c)   Temporary sediment basins shall be maintained when sediment
reaches one-half the outlet height or one-half the storage volume within 72
hours after discovery. The use and management of site temporary sediment basins
shall meet the requirements of the NPDES construction general permit part
III.C.
         (d)   Additional erosion and sediment control measures shall be
installed as directed by the city as found necessary to protect life and limb,
the environment, properties or the stability of a property until final
stabilization, has been achieved.
      (7)   Solid and hazardous materials. Management of site solid waste and
hazardous waste materials shall meet the requirements of the NPDES construction
general permit part IV.F.
(Prior Code, § 1303.08) (Ord. 914, passed 04-25-2016)
§ 156.009 ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   Right of entry. The applicant shall promptly allow the city and its
authorized representatives, upon presentation of credentials to:
      (1)   Enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of obtaining
information, examination of records, conducting investigations, inspections or
survey;
      (2)   Bring such equipment upon the permitted site as is necessary to
conduct the surveys and investigations;
      (3)   Examine and copy any books, papers, records or memoranda pertaining
to activities or records required to be kept under the terms and conditions of
this permitted site;
      (4)   Inspect the storm water pollution control measures;
      (5)   Sample and monitor any items or activities pertaining to storm
water pollution control measures; and
      (6)   Require removal of any temporary or permanent obstruction to the
safe and easy access of such an inspection upon the inspector’s request. The
cost of providing the access shall be born by the applicant.
   (B)   Letter of warning. The city may inspect the project at any time to
determine that adequate construction site runoff control is being exercised in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, approved land disturbance plan,
or city’s land disturbance plan and implementation requirements. If, based on
the city inspection, the site is out of compliance with the provisions, the
city will issue a letter of warning to the permit holder outlining the areas of
the site in non-compliance and specify a time period in which corrections shall
occur.
   (C)   Notice of violation. If the corrective work is not completed and
compliance with the plan has not occurred within the time period set forth in
the letter of warning, the city will issue a notice of violation which
describes the type of penalty being issued to the applicant as described in §
156.999 of this chapter.
   (D)   Emergency corrective action. In the event circumstances exist such
that non-compliance poses an immediate danger to the public health, safety and
welfare, as determined by the city, the city may take emergency corrective
action to prevent any such danger. The city shall make a reasonable effort to
contact and direct the owner of the subject property to take any necessary
action. Any costs incurred by the city in connection with any emergency action
may be recovered from the applicant’s financial security.
(Prior Code, § 1303.09) (Ord. 914, passed 04-25-2016)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Suspension or revocation. The city may, in writing, suspend or revoke
a permit issued under the provisions of this chapter whenever the permit is
issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or is found
to be in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   City remedy. If compliance with the approved land disturbance plan is
not accomplished within the allowable time period described in the letter of
warning, the city may bring the project into compliance by use of the financial
security based on a time period written in the notice of violation.
   (C)   Stop work order. If corrective actions identified in the letter of
warning are not completed by the time period set forth by the city in the
letter, the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation or his or her
designee may issue an order for the city to stop all inspections required for
land use or building permit approvals for the site until all corrective actions
identified in the letter of warning are completed. The applicant shall notify
the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation or his or her designee upon
completion of the corrective action. Once the Director of Public Works/Parks
and Recreation has verified that corrective action has been taken, he or she
shall inform the applicant and the city shall resume inspections on the site no
later than the following business day.
   (D)   Fines. Any person that violates any provision of this chapter may be
given an administrative citation and be required to pay an administrative fine
pursuant to the administrative offense provision of the city code.
   (E)   Misdemeanor. Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine or
imprisonment as specified by state statute. The penalty may be imposed in
addition to an action against the financial security, a stop work order or
suspension or revocation of the permit by the city.
(Prior Code, § 1303.10)
CHAPTER 157: STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
Section
Illicit Discharge and Connections
   
157.001   Purpose and intent
   
157.002   Definitions
   
157.003   Applicability
   
157.004   Responsibility for administration
   
157.005   Ultimate responsibility
   
157.006   Discharge and connection prohibitions
   
157.007   Watercourse protection
   
157.008   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
157.009   Right of entry
   
157.010   Best management practices; prevent, control and reduce storm water
 
   
157.999   Penalty
ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTIONS
§ 157.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote, protect, and enhance the
natural resources within the city and provide for the health, safety and
general welfare of its citizens through the regulation of non-storm water
discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable as
required by federal and state law. This subchapter establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process.
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system by storm water discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, monitoring and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure
compliance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 912.01)
§ 157.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS).
      (1)   Schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, general good
housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and educational practices,
maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or reduce the
discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to storm water, receiving waters
or storm water conveyance systems. BMPs also include treatment practices,
operating procedures, and practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks,
sludge or water disposal or drainage from raw materials storage.
      (2)   STRUCTURAL BMPs are physical devices that are typically designed
and constructed to trap or filter pollutants from storm water runoff or reduce
runoff velocities.
      (3)   NON-STRUCTURAL BMPs are practices that typically focus on
preserving open space, protecting natural systems and incorporate other
existing landscape features to manage storm water runoff at its source.
   CITY. The City of Mounds View, Minnesota, and its elected officials,
officers, employees and agents.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre
or more. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL/ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge
to the storm drainage system, except as exempted in this subchapter.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, that
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drainage system including, but
not limited to, any conveyances that allow any non-storm water discharge of
sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the storm drainage system,
and any connections to the storm drainage system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether the drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted or approved by the city; and
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drainage system that has not been documented in plans,
maps or equivalent records and approved by the city.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial storm water
permits, as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). The system of conveyances
(including sidewalks, roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, human-made channels or storm drains) owned and
operated by the city and designed or used for collecting or conveying storm
water, and that is not used for collecting or conveying sewage.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drainage system that
is not composed entirely of storm water.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting either as the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; undiluted coal tar-based sealers or other products
containing polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs); non-hazardous liquid and
solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other
discarded or abandoned objects and accumulations, so that same may cause or
contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers;
hazardous materials and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved
and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which storm water is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A document which describes
the best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or
business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the
actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water
conveyance systems and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from any premises.
(Prior Code, § 912.02)
§ 157.003 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drainage system
generated on any premises unless explicitly exempted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 912.03)
§ 157.004 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation is the principal city
official responsible to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder to
designated persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the
employ of the city.
(Prior Code, § 912.04)
§ 157.005 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend or imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution or unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Prior Code, § 912.05)
§ 157.006 DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges. No person shall throw, drain or
otherwise discharge, cause or allow others under its control to throw, drain or
otherwise discharge into the MS4 any pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants, other than storm water.
   (B)   Exemptions to discharge prohibitions. The commencement, conduct or
continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm drainage system is
prohibited, except as described as follows:
      (1)   Discharges resulting from the following activities: water line
flushing; sump pump discharge; landscape irrigation; diverted stream flows;
rising ground waters; uncontaminated ground water infiltration; uncontaminated
pumped ground water; discharges from potable water sources, foundation drains,
air conditioning condensation, irrigation water, springs; water from crawl
space pumps, footing drains, lawn watering, individual residential car washing;
flows from riparian habitats and wetlands, dechlorinated swimming pool
discharges; and street wash water;
      (2)   Discharges or flow from firefighting, and other discharges
specified in writing by the city as being necessary to protect public health
and safety;
      (3)   Discharges associated with dye testing. Persons performing this
activity are required to verbally notify the city prior to the time of the dye
test; and
      (4)   Any non-storm water discharge permitted under an NPDES permit,
waiver or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under
the authority of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA);
provided that, the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of
the permit, waiver or order and other applicable laws and regulations; and,
provided that, written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm
drainage system.
   (C)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drainage system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
      (4)   Improper connections in violation of this chapter must be
disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to an approved on-site wastewater
management system or the sanitary sewer system upon approval of the city.
      (5)   Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm drainage system, shall
be located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written
notice of violation from the city requiring that the locating be completed. The
notice will specify a reasonable time period within which the location of the
drain or conveyance is to be determined, that the drain or conveyance be
identified as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other and that the outfall
location or point of connection to the storm sewer system, sanitary sewer
system or other discharge point be identified. Results of these investigations
are to be documented by qualified persons and provided to the city in a format
acceptable to the city.
   (D)   Prohibition of illegal disposal and dumping. No person shall throw,
deposit, place, leave, maintain or keep any pollutant or substance upon any
pavement, storm drain inlet or other areas exposed to precipitation that may
cause pollutant or substance to become an illicit discharge. The intentional
disposal of grass, leaves, dirt or other material into a water resource,
buffer, street or pavement, storm drain inlet, conveyance or other component of
the storm drainage system shall also be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 912.06) (Ord. 969, passed 12-09-2019) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.007 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or the
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately-owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Prior Code, § 912.07)
§ 157.008 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
storm water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of the permit.
Proof of compliance with the permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
city prior to the allowing of any discharges to the MS4.
   (B)   The operator of a facility, including construction sites, required to
have an NPDES permit to discharge storm water associated with industrial
activity shall submit a copy of the notice of intent to the city at the same
time the operator submits the original notice of intent to the EPA as
applicable.
   (C)   The copy of the notice of intent to discharge storm water may be
delivered to the city either in person or by mailing it to:
Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation
City of Mounds View
2401 County Highway 10
Mounds View, MN 55112
   (D)   A person commits an offense if the person operates a facility that is
discharging storm water associated with industrial activity without having
submitted a copy of the notice of intent to do so to the city.
(Prior Code, § 912.08)
§ 157.009 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect premises subject to
regulation under this chapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter. Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access
to enter and inspect premises is a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 912.09)
§ 157.010 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES; PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE STORM WATER.
   (A)   The city may adopt requirements identifying best management practices
for any activity, operation, or facility that may cause or contribute to
pollution or contamination of storm water, the storm drainage system or waters
of the United States. The owner or operator of the activity, operation or
facility shall provide, at his or her own expense, reasonable protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials, or other wastes into the storm
drainage system or watercourses using these structural and non- structural
BMPs.
   (B)   Further, any person responsible for a property or premises that is, or
may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at
the person’s expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent
the further discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance with all terms and
conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of storm water
associated with industrial activity, to the maximum extent practicable, shall
be deemed compliant with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be
part of a storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for
compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
(Prior Code, § 912.10)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   General. Any person violating any provision of §§
157.001 through
157.010 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Emergency cease and desist orders. When the city finds that any
person has violated, or continues to violate any provision of §§
157.001 through
157.010 of this chapter, or any order issued hereunder, or that the person’s
past violations are likely to recur, and that the person’s violation(s) has
(have) caused or contributed to an actual or threatened illicit discharge to
the MS4 or waters of the state, which reasonably appears to present an imminent
or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or to the
environment, the city may issue an order to the violator directing it to
immediately cease and desist all such violations.
      (3)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have his or her MS4
access terminated if the termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The suspension may also be imposed if it is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened illicit discharge that presents or may present imminent
and substantial danger.
      (4)   Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement
processes and penalties provided in §§
157.001 through
157.010 of this chapter, any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provision of §§
157.001 through
157.010 of this chapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, and
is declared and deemed a public nuisance, and may be summarily abated or
restored at the violator’s expense; and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or
otherwise compel the cessation of the nuisance may be taken by the city.
      (5)   Assessments. All costs and expenses, including attorney and
consultant fees, incurred by the city in abating any public nuisance under §§
157.001 through
157.010 of this chapter may be assessed against the premises at which the
violation exists as a special assessment or a charge under state statutes,
municipal code or City Charter.
(Prior Code, § 912.11)
   (C)   The remedies listed in §§
157.001 through
157.010 of this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies available under
any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the discretion of
the city to seek cumulative remedies. The city may recover all attorneys’ fees,
court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of §§
157.001 through
157.010 of this chapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Prior Code, § 912.12)
CHAPTER 158: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
158.001   Declaration of policy
   
158.002   Purpose
   
158.003   Application of provisions; scope
   
158.004   Rules and definitions
   
158.005   Enforcement
Plats and Procedures
   
158.020   Preliminary subdivision plan application
   
158.021   Fees and charges
   
158.022   Necessary data for preliminary plat
   
158.023   Conditions of preliminary plat approval
   
158.024   Necessary data for final plat
   
158.025   Soil tests
   
158.026   Final plat approval procedure
   
158.027   Registered land surveys; conveyance by metes and bounds
   
158.028   Copies of plats
   
158.029   Land division procedure
Design Requirements
   
158.040   Conformance with Comprehensive Plan
   
158.041   Street Plan
   
158.042   Pedestrianways
   
158.043   Easements
   
158.044   Blocks
   
158.045   Lots
   
158.046   Watercourses
   
158.047   Natural features
   
158.048   Monuments
   
158.049   Underground utilities
Public Parks and Playgrounds
   
158.060   Land acquisitions
   
158.061   Dedication of lands
Modifications, Variances and Exceptions
   
158.075   Planned unit developments
   
158.076   Variances
   
158.077   Application procedures
 
   
158.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.001 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   Each new subdivision becomes a permanent unit in the basic physical
structure of the future community, a unit to which the future community will,
of necessity, be forced to adhere. Piecemeal planning of such subdivisions,
without correlation to the Comprehensive Plan, may and often does bring a
disconnected patchwork of plats and poor circulation of traffic. In order to
promote an attractive, orderly, stable and wholesome community environment,
with adequate municipal services and efficient movement of traffic, any
platting, subdivision, rearrangement, development or improvement of land within
the jurisdiction of the city shall, in all respects, comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1201.01)
§ 158.002 PURPOSE.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these regulations
shall be the minimum requirements adopted for the protection of the public
health, safety and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 1201.01)
§ 158.003 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; SCOPE.
   (A)   Based upon authority provided in M.S. § 462.358, as it may be amended
from time to time, every plat of land proposed within the city shall be
submitted to the City Council for review and comment before being filed, and no
plat of land shall be filed unless and until the same shall be approved by
resolution of the City Council. The term PLAT OF LAND for the purpose of this
chapter shall be deemed to include townhouse development, planned unit
developments and any apartment building, common area or land coming within the
purview of the state’s Condominium Act, being M.S. §§ 515.01 et seq., as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (B)   The rules and regulations governing plats and subdivision of land
shall apply within the corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   Except in the case of resubdivison, these regulations shall not apply
to any lot or lots forming a part of subdivision plats recorded in the office
of the Register of Deeds of the county prior to 08-01-1959, nor is it intended
by these regulations to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way impair or
interfere with:
      (1)   Existing provisions of other laws or ordinances, except those in
conflict with these regulations;
      (2)   Private restrictions placed upon property by deed, covenant or
other private agreement which are equal to or more restrictive; and
      (3)   Restrictive covenants running with the land to which the
municipality is a party.
(Prior Code, § 1201.02) (Ord. 860, passed 10-06-2011)
§ 158.004 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of these regulations, the following terms, phrases, words
and their derivations shall have the meanings given in this section. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory
and not merely directory.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The official long-range planning guide as adopted and
revised, from time to time, by the Council.
   COUNCIL. The legally elected Council of the city.
   EASEMENT. A grant by an owner of land for the specific use of the land by
the public generally or to a person or persons.
   FINAL PLAT. The final map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider’s plan
of subdivision is presented to the Council for approval and which, if approved,
will be submitted to the County Recorder’s office or the County Examiner of
Titles.
   LOT. A parcel or portion of land in a subdivision or plat of land, separated
from other parcels or portions by description as on a subdivision or record of
survey map or by metes and bounds for the purpose of sale or lease or separate
use thereof.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot bordered on at least two adjacent sides by streets.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot, the opposite ends of which both abut on
streets.
   METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. The description of parcels of land by the use
of the notation of distances and directions describing a transverse and/or the
description of parts of government sections, quarter sections or government
lots.
   MINIMUM SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS. The guides, principles and
specifications for the preparation of subdivision plans indicating, among other
things, the minimum and maximum dimensions of the various elements set forth in
the preliminary plan.
   OUTLOT. Any parcel of land designated as an OUTLOT on any plat in the city.
OUTLOTS are used to designate land that is part of the subdivision, but is to
be final platted into lots and blocks at a later date, or land that is to be
used for a specific purpose as designated in a development agreement or other
agreement between the city and the subdivider. Private structures are not
permitted to be built on OUTLOTS.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient legal or
equitable interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceeding to subdivide the same under these regulations.
   PEDESTRIANWAY. The right-of-way across or within a block for use by
pedestrian traffic whether designated as a pedestrianway, crosswalk or however
otherwise designated.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate or partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The duly appointed Planning Commission of the city
pursuant to §§
33.001 through
33.011 of this code of ordinances.
   PLAT. The procedure prescribed in M.S. §§ 505.01 et seq., as they may be
amended from time to time.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary map, drawing or chart indicating the
proposed layout of a major subdivision to be submitted to the Council for its
consideration.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts entered into between private parties and
constitute a restriction on the use of all private property within a
subdivision for the benefit of the property owners and to provide mutual
protection against undesirable aspects of development which would tend to
impair stability of values.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The width, between property lines, of a road, street, alley,
pedestrianway or easement.
   STREETS AND ALLEYS.
      (1)   ALLEY is a minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service
access to the back or the side of properties abutting on a street.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET is a street which carries traffic from minor
streets to thoroughfares. It includes the principal entrance streets of a
residential development and streets for circulation within such a development.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC is a minor street with only one outlet and having a
turnaround.
      (4)   MINOR STREET is a street of limited continuity used primarily for
access to the abutting properties and the local needs of a neighborhood.
      (5)   SERVICE ROAD is a minor street which is parallel and adjacent to an
arterial highway and which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
      (6)   STREET is a way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a
street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, lane, place
or however otherwise designated.
      (7)   STREET WIDTH is the shortest distance between the lines delineating
the right-of-way of a street.
      (8)   THOROUGHFARE is a street where heavy volumes of fast-moving
vehicles are provided for. The streets have considerable continuity and are
used primarily as a traffic artery for intercommunication among large areas.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person commencing proceedings under these regulations to
effect a subdivision, platting or registered survey of land hereunder for
themselves or for another.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel(s) of land into two or more lots or
parcels. The term includes re-subdivision and, when appropriate to the context,
shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided. Any
change in property lines constitutes a SUBDIVISION.
(Prior Code, § 1201.03) (Ord. 972, passed 02-10-2020)
§ 158.005 ENFORCEMENT.
   Unless approved as provided herein, no subdivision shall be entitled to be
recorded with the county or have validity. The municipality shall not issue
building permits for any structure on a lot in any unrecorded subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 1201.04) (Ord. 972, passed 02-10-2020)
PLATS AND PROCEDURES
§ 158.020 PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAN APPLICATION.
   (A)   Platting requirements. Full platting shall be required for all
subdivision requests.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   The subdivider shall make application to the City Administrator for
a subdivision and pay the fees established herein. Prior to submitting a
preliminary plat, a sketch plan may be submitted by the subdivider for review
by the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation, Planning and Zoning
Commission and others. The purpose of reviewing such sketch plans shall be to
unofficially advise the subdivider of the extent to which the proposed
subdivision conforms to this chapter. Such unofficial advice shall not
constitute a waiver of rights or any statutory or ordinance requirement. The
sketch plan, in order to be most useful, shall include the following
information:
         (a)   Location and legal description;
         (b)   Name and address of owner, subdivider or any other party of
interest;
         (c)   Whether land is registered or abstract property;
         (d)   Date, north point and scale;
         (e)   Streets within and adjacent to parcel(s);
         (f)   Property dimensions existing and proposed;
         (g)   Location of physical features and any structures; and
         (h)   Any additional information requested by the Planning Department
or city staff deemed necessary to preserve neighborhood aesthetics or protect
the health, safety and welfare of neighboring landowners and the future
residents within the subdivision.
      (2)   At the time of application, the owner or subdivider shall indicate
the proposed use of the property to be subdivided, and if such proposed use
requires it, shall file a proper application for rezoning such property in
accordance with Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances. No subdivision shall be
approved unless and until the property has been rezoned in accordance with the
proposed use thereof. When filing a subdivision application, the subdivider
shall submit a title commitment or title opinion that establishes ownership of
the land or other documents that meets the city’s satisfaction and show the
parties of interest in the property to be subdivided.
      (3)   The application must include all contiguous land owned by the
subdivider or owner, unless the application is a replat of property that has
been previously platted. If only a portion of the property to be subdivided is
planned to be presently developed, the remainder of the land may be platted as
an outlot. The subdivider or owner must submit a schematic demonstrating how
the property that is not currently planned for development could be developed
consistent with the city’s regulations.
   (C)   Submittal of preliminary plat copies. Before any official action shall
be taken by the city, the subdivider shall submit 15 copies of a preliminary
plat of the proposed subdivision to the City Administrator. The preliminary
plat shall be in such form and contain such information as required instate law
or §
158.022 of this chapter.
   (D)   Review and comment submittals.
      (1)   Preliminary plats of subdivisions shall, for the purposes of review
and comment, be provided to the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation,
City Attorney and, if required by M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be amended from time
to time, to the County Engineer and the state’s Department of Transportation.
The County Engineer and the state’s Department of Transportation shall be
afforded 30 days to provide comments.
      (2)   Preliminary plats of major subdivisions, which conform to the Local
Water Management Plan, shall be submitted to the Rice Creek Watershed District
for its review and comment, if required. Preliminary plats which do not so
conform shall be revised by the subdivider according to the stipulations of the
Planning and Zoning Commission and Director of Public Works/Parks and
Recreation prior to submission to the Rice Creek Watershed District.
   (E)   Report of effect. After comments have been received from the
authorities indicated in division (D)(1) above or 30 days has passed since
requesting such comments, a report shall be prepared by the Community
Development staff and submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission with
copies of the preliminary plat or surveyor’s certificate. The report will
address how the proposed subdivision will affect traffic, utilities, drainage,
community facilities, public safety, neighboring land uses, natural features,
open spaces, the Comprehensive Plan and any other matters concerning public
health, safety and welfare.
   (F)   Agenda. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the subdivision
request on its agenda at its next regular meeting following receipt of the City
Administrator’s report. The subdivider or a representative shall be present at
this meeting.
   (G)   Planning and Zoning Commission recommendation. Upon receipt of the
subdivision request and the staff report, the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall recommend to the Council approval or disapproval of the subdivision. The
Planning and Zoning Commission may withhold action to so recommend until the
comments of the Rice Creek Watershed District have been received.
   (H)   Public hearing. Preliminary plats of subdivisions shall require a
public hearing. The Council shall conduct such hearing upon receipt of the
Planning and Zoning Commission recommendation. The City Administrator shall
cause notice of the hearing to be published in the official newspaper at least
ten days prior to the hearing.
   (I)   Council approval or disapproval. The Council shall, within 120 days of
receipt of a completed application, approve or disapprove the preliminary plat
of a subdivision regardless of whether it received a Planning and Zoning
Commission recommendation. The Council shall consider this recommendation and
any comments or objections brought forth during the public hearing or by the
city’s consultants or other public agencies.
   (J)   Denial of preliminary plat. If the Council does not approve the
preliminary plat or surveyor’s certificate, the reasons for the action shall be
recorded in the proceedings and transmitted to the applicant subdivider.
   (K)   Amendments to preliminary plat. If the subdivider wishes to amend the
preliminary plat of a subdivision as approved or disapproved by the Council,
the subdivider may submit an amended plat which shall follow the same
procedures, except the public hearing unless the amendment is, in the opinion
of the Council, of such scope as to constitute a substantial change in the
plat.
   (L)   Approval of preliminary plat. If the preliminary plat of a subdivision
is approved by the Council, the subdivider may begin preparation of the final
plat. Preliminary approval does not constitute waiver by the Council of any
statutory, ordinance or other rights.
(Prior Code, § 1202.01) (Ord. 548, passed 09-24-1994; Ord. 792, passed 05-29-
2007; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 860, passed 10-06-2011; Ord. 972,
passed 02-10-2020)
§ 158.021 FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Fees and deposits.
      (1)   Fee. To defray administrative and other costs of processing
subdivision requests, a fee shall be paid at the time an application is filed
consistent with and as identified in the Table of Special Ordinances of this
code of ordinances.
      (2)   Excess fees. Applicants are responsible for all costs in excess of
the application fee incurred by the city in the processing of the subdivision
application. The excess fees are to be paid upon receipt of statement from the
city. Excess fees may include, but shall not be limited to, photocopy costs,
staff time and fees for planning consultants, attorneys and engineers.
      (3)   Payments of costs. No official or agent of the city may sign or
approve any plat or deed accepting or approving the plat or deeds until any
additional costs over and above the deposits have been paid.
   (B)   Park and playground dedication. The subdivider shall make a land or
cash payment dedication to the municipality according to the provisions of §
158.061 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1202.02) (Ord. 754, passed 01-24-2005)
§ 158.022 NECESSARY DATA FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The preliminary plat or surveyor’s certificate of the proposed subdivision
shall contain or have attached thereto the following information.
   (A)   Identification and description.
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision;
      (2)   Legal description of property;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, surveyor, engineer
and designer of the plat;
      (4)   Graphic scale not less than one inch to 50 feet. Plat of ten acres
or larger may be drawn at a scale not less than one inch to 100 feet;
      (5)   North point; and
      (6)   Date of preparation and of any revisions.
   (B)   Existing conditions and features.
      (1)   Boundary line survey, including measured distances and angles which
shall be tied to the nearest quarter corner or section corner;
      (2)   Existing zoning classifications for land in and abutting the
subdivision;
      (3)   Total acreage of plat and square feet of lots;
      (4)   Location, right-of-way width and names of existing or platted
streets, other public ways and public easements, structures within the
preliminary plat and adjacent thereto shall also be indicated;
      (5)   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts or
other underground facilities within the preliminary plat area and to a distance
of 100 feet beyond;
      (6)   Boundary lines of adjoining land, within 100 feet, including all
contiguous land owned or controlled by the subdivider;
      (7)   If requested, topographic data, including contours at vertical
intervals of not more than two feet; except, where the horizontal contour
interval is 100 feet or more, a one-foot vertical interval shall be shown.
Watercourses, marshes, wooded areas and other significant features shall also
be shown. U.S.G.S. datum shall be used for all topographic mapping; and
      (8)   Soil tests, as specified by the Director of Public Works/Parks and
Recreation, if requested.
   (C)   Proposed conditions and features.
      (1)   If requested, layout of proposed street system on a county section
map;
      (2)   Layout of proposed streets, showing right-of-way widths and
proposed names and streets. The name of any street heretofore used in the city
or its environs shall not be used unless proposed street is an extension of an
already named street, in which event, the name shall be used;
      (3)   Locations and widths of proposed alleys, pedestrianways and utility
easements;
      (4)   Layout, numbers and preliminary dimensions of lots and blocks;
      (5)   Minimum building setback lines (Attention is directed to the
requirements of Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances.);
      (6)   Location of any proposed sanitary and storm sewer lines and water
mains;
      (7)   Proposed method of disposing of surface water drainage, including
proposed drainage easements;
      (8)   Centerline gradients of proposed streets; and
      (9)   Areas, other than streets, alleys, pedestrianways and utility
easement intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of the area or areas in acres.
   (D)   Other information.
      (1)   Such other information or requirements as may be requested by the
Planning and Zoning Commission, Council or city staff that are deemed necessary
to preserve neighborhood aesthetics or to protect the health, safety and
welfare of neighboring landowners and the future residents within the
subdivision;
      (2)   Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is being
proposed for the subdivision, the Planning and Zoning Commission may require
that the subdivider submit a preliminary plan of the remainder of the property
to show the possible relationships between the proposed subdivision and future
subdivisions. In any event, all subdivisions must be shown to relate well with
existing or potential adjacent subdivisions; and
      (3)   Submission of a title commitment or title opinion that establishes
ownership of the land that is satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 1202.03) (Ord. 792, passed 05-29-2007; Ord. 860, passed 10-06-
2011)
§ 158.023 CONDITIONS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Revisions. The Planning and Zoning Commission and Council may require
such revisions as they deem necessary for the health, safety, general welfare
and convenience of the municipality.
   (B)   Tentative approval. The approval of a preliminary plat of a
subdivision by the Council is tentative only, involving merely the general
acceptability of the layout as submitted. The Council shall not permit the
installation of any public improvements in the proposed plat unless the
preliminary plat is approved. Preliminary plat approval is conditioned upon
compliance with all requirements deemed necessary to preserve neighborhood
aesthetics or protect the health, safety and welfare of neighboring landowners
and the future residents within the subdivision.
   (C)   Subsequent approval.
      (1)   Subsequent approval will be required of the engineering proposals
pertaining to water supply, storm drainage, sewerage disposal and other
utilities.
      (2)   Subsequent approval of the preliminary plat will be required by
other public officials having jurisdiction prior to the approval of the final
plat by the municipality.
   (D)   Flooding or poor drainage facilities. No plan will be approved for a
subdivision which covers an area subject to periodic flooding or which contains
extremely poor drainage facilities and which would make adequate drainage of
the streets and lots impossible unless the subdivider agrees to make
improvements which will, in the opinion of the Council, make the area
completely safe for occupancy and provide adequate street and lot drainage.
   (E)   Partial subdivisions. Where an owner or subdivider proposes to
subdivide only a portion of owner’s or subdivider’s property, the Council may
require the owner or subdivider to submit a preliminary plan indicating the
proposal for subdividing the balance of the property so as to have proper
relationship of streets and lot orientations with the portion to be subdivided
and adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, § 1202.04) (Ord. 792, passed 05-29-2007; Ord. 972, passed 02-10-
2020)
§ 158.024 NECESSARY DATA FOR FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   General. The final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor who is
registered in the state and shall conform to all state and county requirements
and the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Information to be shown.
      (1)   All dimensions, including lot lines, shall be shown in feet and
hundredths of feet;
      (2)   Accurate radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent
bearings and lengths of all arcs and accurate lineal dimensions for all lines,
angles and curvatures used to describe boundaries, streets, alleys, easements,
areas to be reserved for public use;
      (3)   When lot lines are not at right angle to the street right-of-way
line, the width of the lot at the building setback line shall be indicated;
      (4)   A numbered identification system for all lots and blocks;
      (5)   A boundary line survey, including the measured distance and angles
and the true distance and bearing between a known point on the boundary and the
nearest official monument which shall be accurately described on the plat;
      (6)   Municipal, county and/or section lines accurately tied to the lines
of the subdivision by distances and angles;
      (7)   Name and location of all monuments;
      (8)   Accurate locations of all monuments;
      (9)   Graphic scale and north point;
      (10)   Names and right-of-way width of all streets and other rights-of-
way;
      (11)   Location of waterbodies and dedication of flowage rights;
      (12)   Accurate outlines and legal description of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use or for the exclusive use of property
owners within the subdivision with the purpose indicated therein;
      (13)   Certification by a registered surveyor in the form required by
state statutes;
      (14)   Execution of the certificate by all owners of any interest in the
land and any holders of a mortgage thereon shall include a dedication of the
utility easements and any other public areas in such form as shall be approved
by the City Attorney;
      (15)   Forms for approval by Council, the county and other authorities,
as required; and
      (16)   Any other information as may be required by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, Council or city staff that is deemed to be in the interest
of the public’s health, safety or welfare.
(Prior Code, § 1202.05) (Ord. 792, passed 05-29-2007)
§ 158.025 SOIL TESTS.
   Upon the advice of the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation, the
Council may require soil tests prior to the approval of the final plat. The
test holes, when ordered by the city authorities, shall be drilled at the
expense of the owner or developer, and the information disclosed shall be
furnished to the Council together with a copy of the proposed plat showing the
location of each test hole, the information as to the various types of soil
encountered and their depths, the level of the ground water and a seepage test
and may include additional information. The number of test holes to be drilled
and their location on the property which is proposed to be platted will be as
directed by the Council or its authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 1202.06)
§ 158.026 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Filing of final plat. The owner or subdivider of a subdivision shall
file 12 printed copies of the final plat not later than six months after the
date of approval of the preliminary plat; otherwise, the preliminary plat and
final plat will be considered void unless an extension is requested, in
writing, by the subdivider and for good cause granted by the Council. The final
plat shall be in such form and contain such information as required in state
law and §
158.024 of this chapter.
   (B)   Conformance to preliminary plat.
      (1)   The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat, as approved,
including any conditions thereof. The Council may allow the subdivider to
submit a final plat which includes only a portion of the approved preliminary
plat.
      (2)   City staff shall examine the final plat to determine whether it
conforms to the preliminary plat, as approved, including, but not limited to,
compliance with all requirements deemed necessary to preserve neighborhood
aesthetics or to protect the health, safety and welfare of neighboring
landowners and the future residents within the subdivision.
      (3)   City staff shall determine whether the final plat, as submitted,
conforms with the terms of the Council approval of the preliminary plat,
including, but not limited to, compliance with all requirements deemed
necessary to preserve neighborhood aesthetics and to protect the public health,
safety and welfare of neighboring landowners and future residents within the
subdivision, and shall report its findings to the Council. If city staff, in
its sole discretion, determines that a final plat contains significant
deviations from what was contemplated during preliminary review and
recommendation, which shall be forwarded to the Council together with the
recommendation from city staff.
   (C)   Approval or disapproval. Upon receipt of the recommendation from staff
and, if applicable, the Planning and Zoning Commission, the Council may approve
or disapprove the final plat and authorize that it be signed by the Mayor and
the City Administrator; provided that all other requirements are met.
   (D)   Plat opinion; title insurance. The final plat shall adhere to all
requirements of the City Attorney, including all requirements contained in the
City Attorney’s plat opinion, which shall be a prerequisite of the city’s
execution of the final plat. The subdivider shall also have issued, at its sole
expense, a title insurance policy in the name of the city in an amount
acceptable to the city so as to ensure for the dedications made on the final
plat.
   (E)   Recording of final plat. If the final plat is approved, the subdivider
shall, within six months, record it with the County Recorder’s office or the
county’s Examiner of Titles and, within ten days of recording, furnish the city
with a reproducible copy of the final plat showing evidence of the recording;
otherwise, the approval of the final plat shall be void, and the City
Administrator shall so notify the County Recorder’s office or the county’s
Examiner of Titles.
   (F)   Re-approval. In the event the plat is not recordable as approved or
the subdivider fails to record within the time prescribed herein, the Council
may re-approve the final plat upon payment of the plat reapproval fee as
specified in the Table of Special Ordinances of this code of ordinances and the
following terms and conditions:
      (1)   The subdivider proves to the satisfaction of the Council that the
delay was caused by conditions beyond the control of the subdivider;
      (2)   The extension of time requested has or will have no adverse effect
on the city or property owners of the city; and
      (3)   The Council shall set the time limit of the extension requested,
but in no event shall it exceed six months.
(Prior Code, § 1202.07) (Ord. 792, passed 05-29-2007; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010; Ord. 860, passed 10-06-2011; Ord. 972, passed 02-10-2020)
§ 158.027 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS; CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   All registered land surveys shall be filed subject to the same procedure as
required for the filing of a preliminary plat for platting purposes. The
standards and requirements set forth in this chapter shall apply to all
registered land surveys. Unless the Council shall approve the registered land
survey in accordance with this chapter, building permits of the tracts shall be
withheld, tracts set aside for street purpose shall not be accepted and no
public money shall be spent toward installing utilities or improvements. No
registered land survey shall receive final approval without the deeding of
streets to the city in a recordable form. No conveyance by metes and bounds
shall be permitted, except where mandated by specific provisions of state
statutes annotated or where allowed under minor subdivision procedures herein.
(Prior Code, § 1202.08) (Ord. 972, passed 02-10-2020)
§ 158.028 COPIES OF PLATS.
   Copies of all such plats of subdivisions, after the same have been submitted
and approved as provided in these regulations, shall be filed and kept by the
City Administrator among the records of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1202.09) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 860, passed 10-06-
2011)
§ 158.029 LAND DIVISION PROCEDURE.
   In any case where the division of a parcel of land into one or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development does
not come within the definition of subdivision, as defined by this chapter, a
certified survey and description of such land division shall be filed with the
City Administrator who shall submit copies of the division to the Planning and
Zoning Commission and Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation. No
building permit shall be issued until the description has been approved by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 1202.10) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
§ 158.040 CONFORMANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 1203.01)
§ 158.041 STREET PLAN.
   The arrangements, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets shall be considered in their relation to reasonable circulation of
traffic, to topographical conditions, to runoff of storm water, to public
convenience and safety and to the proposed uses of the land to be served by the
streets.
   (A)   Streets.
      (1)   Continuation of existing streets. The arrangement of streets in new
subdivisions shall make provision for the appropriate continuation of the
existing streets in adjoining areas.
      (2)   Future projection of streets. Where adjoining areas are not
subdivided, but may be subdivided, the arrangement of streets in a new
subdivision shall make provision for the proper projection of streets into
adjoining areas by carrying the new streets to the boundaries of the new
subdivision at appropriate locations.
      (3)   Widths. All street right-of-way widths shall conform to the
following minimum dimensions:
 
Collector streets 66 feet
Cul-de-sacs       65 foot radius
Local streets     60 feet
Minor arterial    80 feet
Service roads     50 feet
 
   (B)   Alleys.
      (1)   Restricted to certain zones. Alleys shall not be platted in
residential areas, but may be platted in industrial and business zones where
appropriate to the overall design.
      (2)   Widths. All alley rights-of-way shall be at least 24 feet in width.
(Prior Code, § 1203.02)
§ 158.042 PEDESTRIANWAYS.
   In blocks over 900 feet long, pedestrian crosswalks through the blocks and
at least ten feet wide of concrete or other surfacing may be required in
locations deemed necessary to public health, convenience and necessity.
(Prior Code, § 1203.03)
§ 158.043 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Provided for utilities.
      (1)   Easements at least ten feet wide, centered on rear and other lot
lines, shall be provided for utilities where necessary and shall be dedicated
to the public by appropriate language in the owner’s certificate.
      (2)   They shall have continuity of alignment from block to block and, at
deflection points, easements for pole-line anchors shall be provided, where
necessary.
   (B)   Provided for drainage. Easements shall be provided along each side of
the centerline of any watercourse or drainage channel, whether or not shown in
the Comprehensive Plan, to a width sufficient to provide proper maintenance of
storm sewers, and they shall be dedicated to the municipality by appropriate
language in the owner’s certificate. Additional easements may be required for
streets, parkways or park strips parallel to the watercourse, drainage channel
or storm sewer line.
(Prior Code, § 1203.04)
§ 158.044 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Factors governing dimensions. Block length and width or acreage within
bounding streets shall be such as to accommodate the size of residential lots
required in the area by
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances and to provide for convenient access,
circulation control and safety of street traffic.
   (B)   Arrangement. A block shall be so designed as to provide two tiers of
lots unless it adjoins a lake, stream, park or state or federal highway, where
it may have a single tier of lots.
(Prior Code, § 1203.05)
§ 158.045 LOTS.
   (A)   Location. All lots shall abut on a publicly dedicated street that has
received legal status as such.
   (B)   Size. The lot dimensions in subdivisions shall not be less than the
minimum dimensions required to secure the minimum lot area specified in
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances for the district within which the land is
located.
   (C)   Side lot lines. Side lines of lots shall be substantially at right
angles to the street line.
   (D)   Lot remnants. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
subdividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots, rather than
allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
(Prior Code, § 1203.06)
§ 158.046 WATERCOURSES.
   Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream shall have
an additional depth or width, as required, to assure that house sites are not
subject to flooding.
(Prior Code, § 1203.07)
§ 158.047 NATURAL FEATURES.
   In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown for all natural
features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots or similar
conditions, which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and stability to the
proposed developments.
(Prior Code, § 1203.08)
§ 158.048 MONUMENTS.
   Monuments of a permanent character shall be placed in locations on the
boundary of any subdivision and within it as required to permanently define all
property lines and street rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 1203.09) (Ord. 972, passed 02-10-2020)
§ 158.049 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
   (A)   Underground utilities requirements.
      (1)   All new electric distribution lines (excluding main line feeders
and high voltage transmission lines), telephone service lines and services
constructed within the confines of and providing service to customers in a
newly platted residential area shall be buried underground.
      (2)   The subdivider is responsible for complying with the requirements
of this section and shall submit to the Planning and Zoning Commission a
written instrument from the utilities showing that the necessary arrangements
with the utility involved for the installation of the facilities will be made.
   (B)   Exceptions. The foregoing requirements in division (A) above may be
waived by the Council if, after study and recommendation by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, either or both of the following are applicable to the
proposed subdivision:
      (1)   The placing of electric and telephone utilities underground would
not be compatible with the development planned; and
      (2)   Unusual topography, soil or other physical conditions make
underground installation unfeasible from an engineering viewpoint or the cost
impractical.
(Prior Code, § 1203.10)
PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
§ 158.060 LAND ACQUISITIONS.
   Where a proposed park, playground, school site or other public site, as
shown on the Comprehensive Plan or Open Space Master Plan, is embraced in part
or in whole by the boundary of a proposed subdivision and the public sites are
not dedicated to the municipality or Board of Education, the public ground
shall be reserved and no action taken toward approval of a subdivision for a
period not to exceed 90 days to allow the Council or Board of Education the
opportunity to consider and take action toward acquisition of the public ground
or park by purchase or other means.
(Prior Code, § 1204.01)
§ 158.061 DEDICATION OF LANDS.
   (A)   Dedication required.
      (1)   In all subdivisions to be developed for residential, commercial,
industrial or other uses or as a planned development which includes
residential, commercial and industrial uses or any combination thereof, a
subdivider shall dedicate a reasonable portion of the buildable land of the
proposed subdivision to the public or to be preserved for public use as parks,
recreational facilities, playgrounds, trails or public open space. For purposes
of this section, BUILDABLE LAND means the gross acreage of the subdivision
excluding designated wetlands and land set aside as open space in a manner
approved by the city.
      (2)   The city may, at its option, require a cash contribution in lieu of
dedication or require a portion of the required dedication be in land and a
cash contribution in lieu for the balance thereof. Cash payments received shall
be placed in a special fund and used only for the acquisition and development
or improvement of parks, recreational facilities, playgrounds, trails,
wetlands, public open space, redevelopment or rehabilitation of existing
facilities or sites or debt retirement in connection with land previously
acquired or improvements thereto previously constructed for such public
purpose. No funds shall be used for ongoing operation or maintenance of
existing parks or recreational facilities
or sites.
      (3)   In considering the portion to be dedicated or preserved or the
amount of the cash contribution, the city, must give due consideration to the
open space, park, recreational or common areas and facilities open to the
public which the subdivider has reserved for the subdivision; except that,
storm water holding areas or ponds, whether required by the city or any other
regulatory body, will not be taken into consideration.
   (B)   Determination of dedication procedure. Upon receipt of a qualifying
subdivision, the Council shall refer it to the Parks and Recreation Commission.
The Commission shall report to the Council its dedication recommendation. Upon
receipt of the recommendation, the Council shall call for either a land
dedication, a cash payment or a combination of the two, in size, location or
amount, as it determines. The Council may require a professional appraisal to
determine market value for purposes of a cash payment, the cost of which shall
be paid by the subdivider.
   (C)   Credit for existing single-family dwelling. The subdivider of any
parcel of land shall receive a credit for an existing single-family dwelling
unit by excluding the acreage of the occupied parcel remaining after
subdivision from the computation of dwelling units per acre if the parcel of
land is zoned for single-family residence and has located thereon one single-
family dwelling.
   (D)   Dedication amount.
      (1)   (a)   Dedication amount: up to 10% of the buildable land of the
proposed subdivision;
         (b)   Residential: $3,500 per dwelling unit; and
         (c)   Commercial/industrial: cash equivalent of up to 10% of the
estimated market value of buildable land based on fair market value.
      (2)   The exact portion of land or cash shall be established by the city
based on the following factors:
         (a)   Type of the proposed subdivision land use: residential,
industrial or commercial;
         (b)   The need for open space generated by the proposed subdivision;
         (c)   Existence of land dedicated for public use within the proposed
subdivision, excluding areas reserved as storm water holding ponds;
         (d)   Fair market value of the land; and
         (e)   Other relevant factors unique to a particular subdivision
supporting the need for dedication of lands for public use.
      (3)   If a cash fee from the subdivider for part or the entire portion
required to be dedicated is to be paid by the subdivider, such amount is due no
later than at the time of final approval of the proposed subdivision.
   (E)   Dedication for re-subdivision. For any subdivision of a parcel on
which a cash dedication for parks has previously been made but on which an
additional cash dedication is required due to re-subdivision, the amount of
cash dedication required on the re-subdivided parcel(s) shall be based on the
market value of the buildable land at the time of re-subdivision and the
factors set forth in subdivision division (D) above less any applicable credit
for the prior cash dedication.
   (F)   Right of appeal. Pursuant to M.S. §§ 462.358 and 462.361, as they may
be amended from time to time, a subdivider may appeal the imposition of
dedication fee to the district court within 60 days of the approval of the
subdivision application. The subdivider must give written notice to the city
regarding a proposed fee dispute prior to the final decision on the proposed
subdivision. Upon receiving the notice, the city shall place the disputed fee
amount in an escrow and shall continue processing the subdivision application
as if the fee had been paid. The city must not condition the approval of any
proposed subdivision on the subdivider’s waiver of the right to challenge the
dedication fee. If the subdivider fails to appeal the dedication fee within 60
days of the subdivision approval, or if the subdivider does not prevail on the
appeal, the funds paid into escrow will be transferred to the city.
(Prior Code, § 1204.02) (Ord. 474, passed 09-25-1989; Ord. 604, passed - -1997;
Ord. 745, passed 07-26-2004; Ord. 860, passed 10-06-2011; Ord. 960, passed 07-
22-2019)
MODIFICATIONS, VARIANCES
AND EXCEPTIONS
§ 158.075 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   Exceptions, variances or modifications of the strict application of this
chapter may be granted in case of planned unit developments; provided, the
Council, upon review and recommendation from the Planning and Zoning
Commission, shall find that the proposed development is fully consistent with
the purpose and intent of this chapter. A planned unit development shall be
considered any development which conforms to the definition and requirements
thereof in
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances. This provision is intended to provide
flexibility needed for new land planning and land development trends and
techniques.
(Prior Code, § 1205.01)
§ 158.076 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Council may grant a variance of these subdivision regulations in
any particular case where the subdivider can show that the strict compliance
with these regulations imposes practical difficulties to the subdivider in the
use of his or her land. PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES include, but are not limited to,
inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
   (B)   A variance may be granted only if the Council finds that all of the
following circumstances exist:
      (1)   The variance is in harmony with the general purposes and intent of
these regulations;
      (2)   The variance is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   The subdivider proposes to use the property in a reasonable manner
not permitted by these regulations or
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances;
      (4)   Unique circumstances apply to the property which do not apply
generally to other properties in the same zone or vicinity and result from lot
size or shape, topography or other circumstances over which the owner of the
property since the enactment of these regulations has had no control. The
unique circumstances do not result from the actions of the applicant;
      (5)   The variance does not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood;
      (6)   The variance requested is the minimum variance which would
alleviate practical difficulties. Economic conditions alone do not constitute
practical difficulties; and
      (7)   The Council may impose such conditions upon the premises benefitted
by the variance, as may be necessary to comply with the standards established
by this section or to reduce or minimize the effect of the variance upon other
properties in the neighborhood and to better carry out the intent of the
variance. The condition must be directly related to and must bear a rough
proportionality to the impact created by the variance.
(Prior Code, § 1205.02) (Ord. 861, passed 09-22-2011; Ord. 972, passed 02-10-
2020)
§ 158.077 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application and contents. Application for any exception, variance or
modification of the requirements of these subdivision regulations shall be
made, in writing, by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is
filed for consideration by the municipality, stating fully all facts relied
upon by the petitioner and shall be supplemented with maps, plans or other
additional data which may aid the Planning and Zoning Commission and Council in
the analysis of the proposed project.
   (B)   Plans. The plans for the development shall include the covenants,
restrictions or other legal provisions necessary to guarantee the full
achievement of the plan.
   (C)   Records. Any exception, variance or modification thus granted shall be
recorded in the minutes of the Council setting forth the reasons which
justified the action.
(Prior Code, § 1205.03)
§ 158.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or who
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter or who sells
or offers for sale or lease any lot or block of land herewith regulated before
all the requirements of these regulations have been complied with shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and each day that a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1201.05)
CHAPTER 159: WETLAND ZONING
Section
   
159.001   Short title
   
159.002   Findings of fact; purpose
   
159.003   Scope of provisions
   
159.004   Plan of execution
   
159.005   Definitions
   
159.006   Wetland zoning districts
   
159.007   District regulations
   
159.008   Permit requirements and procedures
   
159.009   Appeals
   
159.010   Development density and park land dedication credit transfers
   
159.011   Municipal land acquisitions
   
159.012   Special assessments
   
159.013   Liability for damage
 
   
159.999   Penalty
§ 159.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Wetlands Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 1010.01) (Ord. 505, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 159.002 FINDINGS OF FACT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Findings.
      (1)   The Council finds that wetlands within the city, as part of the
ecosystem, are critical to the present and future health, safety and general
welfare of the land, animals and people within the city, as well as within the
Rice Creek Watershed District, that existing and potential development within
the city and Rice Creek Watershed possess increasing ecological and economic
problems and demands, having the effect of potentially despoiling, polluting,
accelerating the aging, eliminating or negatively and irretrievably altering
both the wetlands and their functions (and the processes associated therewith)
which, if managed, will constitute important physical, educational, ecological,
aesthetic, recreational and economic assets for existing and future residents
of the community and the Rice Creek Watershed District. The City Council has in
mind its statutory obligation to comply with state law, the regulations of Rice
Creek Watershed District, regulations of the Department of Natural Resources,
including provisions for protected waters, the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., open space policies of the Metropolitan
Council and its guidelines encouraging protection and enhancement of marshes,
wetlands in the floodplain area and the public interest in preventing
irreparable destruction or deterioration of valuable natural resources.
      (2)   The public interest necessitates sound land use development, as
land is a limited and irreplaceable resource, and the land within the
municipality is a resource to be developed in a manner which will result in
minimum damage to the quality of life, property, threat to health and reduction
of private/public economic loss caused by drainage problems.
   (B)   Purposes. Therefore, recognizing the obligation to protect these
assets and natural resource gifts from destruction or deterioration and
pollution of all kinds, the purposes of this chapter are:
      (1)   To preserve wetlands in as natural a state as possible;
      (2)   To serve as natural retention and detention areas for surface
waters;
      (3)   To regulate the use of areas adjacent to the wetlands in order to
protect and enhance the natural function of the wetlands;
      (4)   To provide for the protection, preservation, proper maintenance,
use and enhancement of wetland zoning districts;
      (5)   To minimize the disturbance to them and to prevent or minimize
damage from excessive sedimentation, eutrophication or pollution;
      (6)   To prevent loss of aquatic organisms, wildlife and vegetation or
the habitats of the same;
      (7)   To provide for the protection of surface and ground water supplies
from the danger of drought, overdraft, pollution or mismanagement;
      (8)   To secure safety from floods;
      (9)   To reduce the financial burdens imposed upon the community through
rescue and relief efforts occasioned by the occupancy or use of areas subject
to periodic flooding;
      (10)   To prevent loss of life, property damage and the losses and risks
associated with flood conditions;
      (11)   To reduce erosion problems;
      (12)   To enhance and preserve quality; and
      (13)   To enhance and preserve the natural drainageways.
(Prior Code, § 1010.02) (Ord. 505, passed 04-27-1992; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-
2019)
§ 159.003 SCOPE OF PROVISIONS.
   The wetland zoning district shall overlay the zoning districts established
pursuant to
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances so that any parcel of land lying in a
wetland zoning district shall also lie in one or more of the established zoning
districts. Lands lying within a wetland zoning district shall be subject to the
requirements established by other applicable ordinances and regulations of the
city. Within each wetland zoning district, all uses shall be permitted in
accordance with the regulations for the underlying zoning district; provided,
however, that, the uses must also satisfy the additional requirements
established in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1010.03) (Ord. 505, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 159.004 PLAN OF EXECUTION.
   It is the intent of the city to effectuate the purposes of this chapter
through the following means:
   (A)   Adopt a map designating the wetlands protected by this chapter;
   (B)   Promote community education about the importance, function,
limitations and impact of urbanization upon the water resources of the
community;
   (C)   To preserve and enhance wetlands within the community through
implementation of development regulations that will ensure the design and
construction of adequate on-site storm water, sedimentation and retention and
detention basins, flow control devices and implementation of effective erosion
control techniques;
   (D)   To apply techniques such as density transfers to development proposals
in order to minimize ratios of impermeable surface to open space;
   (E)   To establish means by which certain wetlands may be placed in the
public domain for purposes of enhancement, preservation, protection and
maintenance;
   (F)   To provide means by which an applicant and the city will routinely
obtain advice and input from various governmental agencies and professionals in
the field of fresh water biology, hydrology and civil engineering; and
   (G)   To establish a system of permits and enforcement to effectuate the
intent of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1010.04) (Ord. 505, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 159.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   DEVELOPMENT. The construction, installation or alteration of any structure,
the extraction, clearing or other alteration of land or terrestrial or aquatic
vegetation or the course, current or cross-section of any water body or
watercourse or the subdivision of land into parcels pursuant to Ch. 158 of this
code of ordinances.
   DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS. A minimum/maximum setback yard requirements or
structure height or size established in
Ch. 158 and
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances.
   DRAINAGEWAY.
      (1)   Any natural, altered or artificial watercourse which has definable
beds and banks capable of conducting confined runoff from adjacent lands.
Watercourse beds not clearly defined shall be delineated to include that area
which would be inundated by runoff, calculated in accordance with provisions in
the Local Water Management Plan, from a storm event having a recurrence
interval of once in ten years;
      (2)   An altered watercourse is that which has been affected by human-
made changes in straightening, deepening, narrowing or widening the original
channel; and
      (3)   An artificial watercourse is that which has been artificially
constructed by humans where there was no previous natural watercourse. The
limits of the watercourse bed are confined to that area which would be
inundated by runoff, calculated in accordance with provisions in the Local
Water Management Plan, from a storm event having a recurrence interval of once
in ten years.
   ENHANCE/ENHANCEMENT. To heighten the value of city’s wetlands with respect
to the purposes of this chapter.
   LOCAL WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. A Local Water Management Plan has been prepared
for the city in accordance with M.S. Ch. 103B, as it may be amended from time
to time. The plan identifies the goals and policies of the city in providing
for future development while minimizing surface water problems.
   MANAGED. To control the use of the city’s wetland resources in a manner
which is consistent with the purposes of this chapter. MANAGEMENT of wetlands
includes conservation maintenance and enhancement.
   PERMIT. An official document or certificate issued by the city authorizing
performance of a specified activity.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other
private or governmental entity.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner.
   WATER QUALITY. The degree of excellence of water, including, but not limited
to, phosphorus concentrations, sediment load and concentration of metals.
   WETLAND. Those areas greater than one acre in size that are inundated or
saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to
support and that under normal circumstances do support hydrophytic vegetation,
hydric soils and wetland hydrology, as delineated on the Wetland Zoning
District Map.
   WETLAND BUFFER AREA. Areas abutting and within 100 feet, measured
horizontally, of a wetland.
   WETLAND DRAINAGE DISTRICT. The area tributary to the wetland zoning district
as delineated on the Wetland Zoning District Map.
   WETLAND ZONING DISTRICT. The areas delineated on the Wetland Zoning District
Map which include the wetlands and wetland buffer areas.
(Prior Code, § 1010.05) (Ord. 505, passed 04-27-1992; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-
2019)
§ 159.006 WETLAND ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Application of provisions. This chapter shall apply to wetland zoning
districts which are specifically identified on the zoning map entitled, Wetland
Zoning District Map, an official copy of which shall be on file in the office
of the City Administrator and shall be available for inspection and copying
upon the terms and conditions as established by the city.
   (B)   Modification of district. A wetland zoning district may be modified or
eliminated by four-fifths affirmative vote of the Council after public hearing
and notice as set forth in Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances. Wetland zoning
districts may not be eliminated unless it can be shown that the original
designation is in error or that conditions have changed. When modifying or
removing a wetland zoning district, the Council shall use the criteria and
methods established in the Federal Manual for Identifying and Delineating
Jurisdictional Wetlands, dated January, 1989, as amended from time to time.
   (C)   Map established. Pursuant to division (A) above, the wetland zoning
districts delineated in the referenced Wetland Zoning District Map are hereby
established.
   (D)   Legal descriptions. Pursuant to division (A) above, the properties
described in App. A to Ord. 505, the ordinance codified herein, on file in the
office of the City Administrator, are hereby designated as wetlands.
   (E)   Districts established. The wetland zoning districts designated in
divisions (C) and (D) are hereby established as wetland zoning districts for
the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1010.06) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 159.007 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Required permits. A wetland alteration permit or a wetland buffer
permit shall be required for any development in a wetland zoning district as
provided in §
159.008(B).
   (B)   Dedication of lands. Whenever a wetland or drainageway is located on
lands that are being subdivided, the subdivider shall dedicate such wetland
and/or drainageway to the public as allowed per M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be
amended from time to time, and shall dedicate an easement to the public as
required for purposes of improving, maintaining or protecting the area for
drainage, water quality enhancement or other purposes expressed in this
chapter.
   (C)   Subdivision regulations. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances, the following shall apply to all lands
proposed to be subdivided pursuant to
Ch. 158 of this code of ordinances and lying within a wetland zoning district:
the following regulations are required to control the density of development in
wetland zoning districts. The purpose of controlling development density is to
reduce the financial burdens imposed on the community through rescue and relief
efforts occasioned by the occupancy or use of areas subject to periodic
flooding, to minimize loss of life, property damage and the losses and risks
associated with flood conditions and to minimize the detrimental effects of
urbanization on the wildlife habitat, water quality enhancement, recreational
and aesthetic values of wetlands:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 20,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 125 feet as measured at the building setback
line;
      (3)   Building setback: all buildings, including accessory buildings, as
defined in
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances, shall be set back at least 100 feet from
the wetland, except as allowed by an approved wetland alteration permit or
approved wetland buffer permit as provided in §
159.008 of this chapter.
   (D)   Existing non-conforming buildings and parcels. Any building or
structure situated on an existing parcel of record, as of the original date of
enactment of this chapter, that does not meet the requirements of this chapter
shall be considered non-conforming pursuant to the provisions of §§
160.375 through
160.382 of this code or ordinances and will require a variance from the Council
to build or rebuild.
      (1)   Non-conforming parcels. A non-conforming parcel shall exist:
         (a)   Where any portion of the parcel is contained in a wetlands
district; or
         (b)   Where 20% of a parcel or at least 2,000 square feet of the
parcel, whichever is less, shall be contained within the wetland buffer area.
      (2)   Non-conforming buildings. A non-conforming building shall exist:
         (a)   Where it does not meet building or structure setback
requirements; and
         (b)   Where it does not meet floor elevation requirements.
(Prior Code, § 1010.07) (Ord. 505, passed 04-27-1992; Ord. 602, passed 08-25-
1997)
§ 159.008 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Activities requiring permits. The following activities in or upon a
wetland zoning district shall require either a wetland alteration permit or a
wetland buffer permit, as provided in division (B) below:
      (1)   The digging, dredging, filling, draining or in any way altering or
removing any material from a wetland;
      (2)   The alteration of vegetation within the wetland or the destruction
of vegetation within the wetland zoning district, except to abate a public
nuisance;
      (3)   The construction, alteration or removal of any structure;
      (4)   The altering of any embankment or ponding area or the changing of
the flow of water or ponding capacity;
      (5)   The storing of materials which would interfere with the flow of
water and/or ponding capacity;
      (6)   Disposing of waste materials, including, but not limited to,
demolition debris and yard waste; and
      (7)   Installation or maintenance of essential services.
   (B)   Types of permits required. The following permits shall be required for
any development in a wetland zoning district.
      (1)   Wetland alteration permit. No development shall be allowed within
that portion of a wetland zoning district which is delineated as a wetland on
the Wetland Zoning District Map without first having obtained a wetland
alteration permit from the city as provided for in this section.
      (2)   Wetland buffer permit. No development shall be allowed in the area
defined as the wetland buffer area as shown on the Wetland Zoning District Map
without first having obtained a wetland buffer permit from the city as provided
for in this section.
      (3)   Development overlapping wetland and wetland buffer area; authority
for approval with combinations of activities having different approval
authorities. Where a proposed development includes area in both the wetland and
wetland buffer area, the applicant shall only be required to apply for a
wetland alteration permit which shall cover the entire development area. Where
a proposed development includes activities subject to City Council approval,
and activities subject to administrative approval, the permit shall cover all
activities and shall be reviewed and approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Exceptions to permit requirements.
      (1)   Emergencies. Upon the declaration of an emergency by the city,
emergency work necessary to preserve life or property shall be permitted in a
wetland zoning district.
      (2)   Repairs. Upon application and approval by the City Council, a
person may repair or maintain any lawful use of land existing on the effective
date hereof.
      (3)   Recreation areas or parks. Notwithstanding any other provision of
this code to the contrary, a person may develop a municipally-owned recreation
area or park facility on city-owned lands which will involve the development
within a wetland zoning district as part of an integrated plan, comprising not
less than 75 acres, where the development would reasonably conserve, preserve
and enhance the environment by providing facilities that would protect the
public health, safety and welfare.
      (4)   City or city agent work. When the city or agents working on behalf
of the city are engaged in or otherwise undertaking activities requiring
permits, as provided for in division (A) above, the city or its agents shall
not be required to obtain any of the permits provided in division (B) above.
      (5)   Public nuisance abatement. Ordinary, normal and reasonable
maintenance activities undertaken by owners of private and public properties
located within a Wetland Zoning District shall not require a wetland alteration
permit or a wetland buffer permit so long as this maintenance is in keeping
with the purposes described in §
159.002(B) of this chapter. Examples of ordinary, normal and reasonable
property maintenance that is in keeping with the purposes of the wetland zoning
regulations include, but are not limited to, chemical-free buckthorn removal
and lawn care.
   (D)   Standards for approval of permits. No permit shall be issued unless
the city finds and determines that the proposed development complies with the
standards as stated in this division (D). Approval of either a wetland
alteration permit or wetland buffer permit shall constitute approval of a
variance to the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   Minimum alteration in ecological and hydrological characteristics.
A minimum alteration of a wetland may be allowed when necessary for the use of
property, but only when it will not have a substantially or significantly
adverse effect, as determined by the city, upon the ecological and hydrological
characteristics of the wetland. However, in no case shall the restrictions set
out in divisions (D)(1)(a) through (D)(1)(f) below be exceeded. Since the
extent of alteration which can be permitted is limited, the city, when
considering a permit application, shall consider equal apportionment of
alteration opportunity. The alteration opportunity within the wetland shall be
allocated among property owners in proportion to the area of wetland located
within each property.
         (a)   Any alteration shall not cause a reduction in the flood storage
capacity of the wetland. Flood storage capacity shall be determined by analysis
of the runoff from the entire developed wetland drainage district resulting
from both the two-year and 100-year frequency, 24-hour SCS Type I distribution
storms.
         (b)   An alteration shall not reduce the existing water quality
enhancement value of a wetland under conditions of ultimate development, during
both the two-year and 100-year frequency, 24-hour SCS Type I distribution
storms. Water quality enhancement value of a wetland shall be determined using
methods approved by the city.
         (c)   Any alteration shall not reduce the existing wildlife habitat
value of a wetland as measured using methods approved by the city.
         (d)   Alterations shall be carried out so as to minimize the impact on
vegetation. Removal of vegetation within a wetland zoning district shall be
permitted only when reasonably required for the placement of structures and use
of property.
         (e)   Alterations shall not adversely affect the water flow
characteristics within the wetland as determined by the city.
         (f)   Storm water runoff from a development may be directed to the
wetland when in conformance with the Local Water Management Plan and only when
substantially, as determined by the Council, free of sediment, debris and
chemical pollutants and only at rates which will not substantially disturb
vegetation or increase turbidity as determined by the city.
         (g)   The proposed action shall not cause storm water runoff from the
development to take place at a rate which would exceed the rate or volume of
runoff as anticipated by the city’s Local Water Management Plan.
         (h)   The quality of water infiltrated to the water table or aquifer
shall remain substantially, as determined by the city, unchanged by the
alteration of the site.
         (i)   No part of any sewage disposal system requiring on-land or in-
ground disposal of waste shall be located closer than 100 feet from the
wetland. All on-land or in-ground sewage disposal systems shall meet criteria
set out in Minn. Rules Ch. 6, MCAR 4.8040, Individual Sewage Treatment System
Standard.
         (j)   Waste which would normally be disposed of at a solid or
hazardous waste disposal site or which would normally be discharged into a
sewage disposal system or sewer shall not be, directly or indirectly,
discharged to a wetland.
      (2)   Soil conditions; control of erosion.
         (a)   Construction erosion control measures and retention facilities
shall be designed to limit soil loss from the development site to not more than
five tons per acre per year. Plans and supporting documentation for such
measures and facilities shall be developed and approved by the city prior to
commencement of construction.
         (b)   The applicant for the wetland alteration permit shall be
required to demonstrate that, after the development is completed, the
conditions on the site will be stabilized such that the yearly soil loss from
the site will not be greater than five-tenths ton per acre per year.
         (c)   Sediment and soil loss shall be determined utilizing the
Universal Soil Loss Equation as defined by the U.S. Department of Agriculture
Soil Conservation Service Technical Field Guide, as amended from time to time,
as provided for Ramsey Soil and Water Conservation District.
         (d)   Only fill substantially free of chemical pollutants and wastes,
as determined by the city, may be used.
         (e)   A building’s minimum elevation permitted in a wetland zoning
district shall be as defined in the Local Water Management Plan.
         (f)   No alteration shall be allowed which will endanger the health,
safety or welfare of persons or which may result in unusual road maintenance
costs or utility line breakages due to soil limitations, including high frost
action.
      (3)   Scheduling of work. Work in the wetland will not be performed
during the breeding season of water fowl or fish spawning season.
      (4)   Size of area. The size of the altered area shall be limited to the
minimum required for the proposed action.
   (E)   Standards for denial of permits. No wetland alteration or wetland
buffer permit may be granted which would allow any use that is prohibited in
the zoning district in which the property is located or which will:
      (1)   Result in incompatible land uses or which would be detrimental to
surface and ground water resources;
      (2)   Increase the financial burdens imposed on the community through
increasing floods and overflow of water onto land areas within the city or onto
land areas adjacent to Rice Creek;
      (3)   Be not in keeping with land use plans and planning objectives for
the city or which will increase or cause danger to life or property;
      (4)   Be inconsistent with the objectives of encouraging land uses
compatible with the preservation of the natural land forms, vegetation and
wetlands within the city; and
      (5)   Include development of land and water areas essential to continue
the temporary withholding of rapid runoff of surface water which contributes to
downstream flooding or water pollution or development of land and water areas
which provide ground water recharge or development which diminishes the land or
water which are necessary to carry increased flows of storm water following
periods of heavy precipitation.
   (F)   Permit issuing authority. The issuing authority for wetland alteration
permits shall be as set forth hereinafter.
      (1)   Administrative authority. The Director of Community Development or
designee shall have the authority to issue wetland alteration or wetland buffer
permits which meet the standards in this chapter for the following types of
activities:
         (a)   Repair or maintenance of any lawful use of land existing on the
effective date hereon;
         (b)   Public and/or private utility work on existing facilities;
         (c)   Alterations within the wetland buffer if they do not extend into
or create an adverse impact the adjacent wetland as follows:
            1.   Installation and maintenance of fences;
            2.   Landscaping, and impervious surfaces which surfaces do not
exceed 1,264 square feet;
            3.   Detached garages, accessory buildings and driveways, and
additions thereto which do not require a conditional use permit;
            4.   Grading which does not adversely alter storm water storage
capacity, storm water flow direction or runoff intensity;
            5.   Temporary structures not requiring permanent foundations or
pads for support; and
            6.   Building and structural additions to a principal building
which addition does not exceed 1,264 square feet.
      (2)   City Council authority. The City Council may issue permits which
meet the standards in this chapter and are beyond the scope of the
administrative authority stated in division (F)(1) above or those that are
appealed to the Council after having been reviewed and denied by city staff.
   (G)   Application and review procedures.
      (1)   Submittal materials required. The following drawings and exhibits
may be required with a permit application, unless specific items are waived by
the Director of Community Development based on the scope of the proposed
development:
         (a)   The name and address of the subdivider, developer and owner or
any other party of interest;
         (b)   A legal description of the proposed site with a map showing its
location with indications of private access roads and existing or proposed
public roadways within and surrounding the development site;
         (c)   A full and adequate description of all phases of the operation
and/or proposed physical changes;
         (d)   A soil survey map of the proposed development site;
         (e)   A topographic map of the development area with contour
information at two-foot intervals or spot elevations at 200-foot intervals and
at a horizontal scale of one inch to 100 feet or larger;
         (f)   A detailed site plan of the proposal showing proposed drainage,
grading and landscaping:
            1.   Information on existing drainage and vegetation of all lands
within the site and to a distance of 500 feet surrounding the site or to the
wetland drainage district boundary, whichever is shorter;
            2.   The location of existing and future human-made features within
the site and to a distance of 500 feet surrounding the site or to the wetland
drainage district boundary, whichever is shorter; and
            3.   Proposed drainage, grading and landscaping.
         (g)   The time period for com- mencement and completion of the
development, including time for staging of development, if applicable;
         (h)   Design specification and plan for all sediment and erosion
control measures as well as all grading and drainage appurtenances and
practices;
         (i)   Engineering data related to computations of existing and
proposed hydrology, water quality, hydraulics and soil loss; and
         (j)   Such additional information as necessary to evaluate the permit
application.
      (2)   Processing of application.
         (a)   The permit application shall be submitted to the city. The city
shall process the permit application according to the provisions of this
section. For permits requiring City Council action, the Community Development
Department shall prepare a report and recommendation for consideration by City
Council prior to the City Council taking action on the permit application. The
Community Development Department or the City Council may refer the permit
application to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its recommendation prior
to action being taken on the permit application.
         (b)   A wetland alteration permit may be processed concurrently with
any other application for use permit approval that may be required under other
provisions of the municipal code.
      (3)   Action on permit; conditions.
         (a)   Compliance with standards. No wetland alteration or wetland
buffer permit shall be approved, except it meet the standards set forth in this
section. A permit may be approved subject to conditions reasonable and
necessary to ensure compliance with the aforementioned standards in division
(D) above. Such conditions may, among other matters:
            1.   Provide for the enhancement of storm water storage, fish and
wildlife habitat, and water quality enhancement functions of wetland zoning
districts;
            2.   Provide for enhancement of recreation and education
opportunities in wetland zoning districts;
            3.   Limit the size, kind or character of the proposed work;
            4.   Require the construction of storm water detention facilities
or other structures;
            5.   Require replacement of vegetation;
            6.   Establish required monitoring or maintenance procedures,
including the payment of costs for such procedures;
            7.   Stage the work over time and increments of land to be
developed;
            8.   Require the alteration of the site design to insure buffering;
            9.   Require posting of sufficient surety to guarantee conformance
to the purposes of the permit and all laws regulating the activity; or
            10.   Require the conveyance to the city of certain lands or
interest therein.
         (b)   Modification of zoning requirements. The dimensional
requirements of the underlying zoning ordinance may be modified in furtherance
of the purposes of this chapter.
         (c)   Considerations in granting of approval. The city shall consider
all relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter, as well as
the following:
            1.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and the impact of the proposed use on the wetlands in the surrounding area; and
            2.   The impact of the proposed wetland alteration on the surface
water storage, fish and wildlife habitat and water quality enhancement values
of the wetland.
         (d)   Action by resolution or by written notice. Action on permits
shall be by the City Council or by the Director of Community Development, as
provided in division (F) above. A permit approval may include such terms and
conditions as is deemed necessary by the approval body to protect the public
health, safety and welfare and to meet the standards set forth in this chapter.
For permits requiring City Council action, the City Council shall take action
to approve, approve with conditions or deny a permit application by resolution.
For permits allowing action by the Director of Community Development, the
Director shall notify the applicant in writing of the decision on the permit.
   (H)   Expiration; extensions and renewals. A permittee shall begin the work
authorized by the permit within 90 days from the date of issuance of the permit
unless otherwise set forth in the permit. The permittee shall complete the work
authorized by the permit within the time limit specified on the permit which
shall in no event exceed more than 12 months from the date of issuance unless
such time limit is extended by the approval authority. The permittee shall
notify the city at least 48 hours prior to the commencement of work. Should the
work not be commenced as specified herein, the permit shall become void.
(Prior Code, § 1010.08) (Ord. 505, passed 04-27-1992; Ord. 602, passed 08-25-
1997; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-2019)
§ 159.009 APPEALS.
   An applicant may appeal the denial of a wetland alteration or wetland buffer
permit by the Director of Community Development to the City Council. An appeal
shall be filed in writing no more than 14 days following the date of the
decision by the Community Development Director. The appeal shall be scheduled
for consideration by City Council at the next regular City Council meeting
which is at least seven days from the date of the appeal. Consideration of
appeals shall be in accordance with the standards and procedures set forth in
this chapter. A decision by the City Council shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 1010.09) (Ord. 602, passed 08-25-1997)
§ 159.010 DEVELOPMENT DENSITY AND PARK LAND DEDICATION CREDIT TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Credit for undevelopable lands. When land to be developed includes
wetlands, the developer thereof may receive a credit for the undevelopable
portion of the wetland, either:
      (1)   Toward the dedication of land requirements under §
158.061 of this code of ordinances not exceeding the amount of the developable
lands in the development proposal;
      (2)   The development may be intensified so as not to exceed twice the
allowable land use densities prescribed under
Ch. 158 and
160 of this code of ordinances; provided, however, that the intensified land
use must be consistent with street dedication dimensions, parking requirements
and screening, fencing and landscaping regulations of the city;
      (3)   The building square footage requirements of the municipal code may
be intensified, but not to exceed 5%; or
      (4)   Any combination of divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) and (A)(3) above as
agreed upon by developer and city, keeping in mind that the public health,
safety and welfare of the community is paramount.
   (B)   Conveyance of lands. Upon receipt of any of the credits herein, the
developer shall convey any wetlands designated by this chapter, for which a
credit has been given, to and may be accepted by the city free and clear of all
encumbrances.
(Prior Code, § 1010.10) (Ord. 505, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 159.011 MUNICIPAL LAND ACQUISITIONS.
   The municipality may acquire, pursuant to law, fee title or easement rights,
by dedication, gift, purchase, eminent domain, tax forfeiture, leasehold
estates, part or all of any wetlands or land adjacent, abutting, contiguous or
affecting wetlands, for the purpose of preserving such lands and protecting the
public health, safety and welfare. Charges authorized by §
36.020 and
Ch. 158 of this code of ordinances or by other applicable law may be used to
finance the acquisitions authorized herein. The Council may abate those taxes
and assessments within wetlands as authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 1010.11) (Ord. 505, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 159.012 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The property within a designated wetland which is restricted hereby or for
which a development or other restrictive easement is conveyed to the
municipality shall not be subject to future special assessments for the costs
of public improvements for which the assessments are authorized pursuant to §
36.020 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1010.12) (Ord. 505, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 159.013 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE.
   Neither the issuance of a permit nor compliance with the conditions thereof
nor with the provisions of this chapter shall relieve any person from any
responsibility otherwise imposed by law for damages to persons or properties,
nor shall the issuance of any permit hereunder serve to impose any liability on
the municipality or its officers or employees for injury or damage to persons
or property. A permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall not relieve the
permittee of the responsibility of complying with any other requirements
established by law, regulation or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1010.13) (Ord. 505, passed 04-27-1992)
§ 159.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day during which the violation exists is a separate offense.
Any violation of this chapter is a public nuisance and may be enjoined by civil
action. Costs of any civil enforcement shall be assessed against the property
so enjoined. Any person who, in violation of this chapter, alters, changes or
modifies any wetlands shall restore the wetlands to their original condition.
Whenever any alteration, change or modification of any wetlands is being done
contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the city may order the alteration,
change or modification of any wetlands stopped by notice, in writing, served on
any persons engaged in doing or causing the alteration, change or modification
of any wetlands, and any person shall forthwith stop the alteration, change or
modification until authorized by the city to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 1010.14) (Ord. 786, passed 05-23-2007)
CHAPTER 160: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
160.001   Short title
   
160.002   Authority
   
160.003   Intent and purpose
   
160.004   Relation to Comprehensive Municipal Plan
   
160.005   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
160.006   Interpretation
   
160.007   Conformance with provisions
   
160.008   Uses not provided for within zoning districts
   
160.009   Effect of provisions
   
160.010   Separability
   
160.011   Rules of construction
   
160.012   Definitions
   
160.013   Fees
   
160.014   Enforcement
General Building Requirements
   
160.025   Purpose
   
160.026   Dwelling unit restrictions
   
160.027   Platted and unplatted property
   
160.028   Accessory buildings, uses and equipment
   
160.029   Drainage
   
160.030   Fencing, screening and landscaping
   
160.031   Glare
   
160.032   Smoke, dust and odors
   
160.033   Noise
   
160.034   Refuse
   
160.035   Storage of equipment and materials
   
160.036   Liquid or solid wastes
   
160.037   Toxic or noxious matter
   
160.038   Explosives
   
160.039   Underground storage tanks
   
160.040   Satellite dish antennas
   
160.041   Cargo containers
General Zoning Provisions
   
160.055   Yard requirements
   
160.056   Area and building size regulations
   
160.057   Interim uses
   
160.058   Temporary health care dwellings
Zoning Districts and Map
   
160.070   Districts established
   
160.071   Zoning map
   
160.072   Annexations
   
160.073   District boundaries
R-1, Single-Family Residential District
   
160.085   Purpose
   
160.086   Permitted uses
   
160.087   Accessory uses
   
160.088   Conditional uses
R-2, Single- and Two-Family Residential District
   
160.100   Purpose
   
160.101   Permitted uses
   
160.102   Zero lot line subdivision
   
160.103   Accessory uses
   
160.104   Conditional uses
R-3, Medium Density Residential District
   
160.115   Purpose
   
160.116   Permitted uses
   
160.117   Accessory uses
   
160.118   Conditional uses
R-4, High Density Residential District
   
160.130   Purpose
   
160.131   Permitted uses
   
160.132   Accessory uses
   
160.133   Conditional uses
R-5, Mobile Home District
   
160.145   Purpose
   
160.146   Permitted uses
   
160.147   Accessory uses
   
160.148   Conditional uses
   
160.149   Mobile home and manufactured home park development
   
160.150   Operation of mobile home or manufactured home park
   
160.151   Location
   
160.152   Temporary permits
B-1, Neighborhood Business District
   
160.165   Purpose
   
160.166   Permitted uses
   
160.167   Accessory uses
   
160.168   Conditional uses
   
160.169   Interim uses
B-2, Limited Business District
   
160.180   Purpose
   
160.181   Permitted uses
   
160.182   Accessory uses
   
160.183   Conditional uses
   
160.184   Interim uses
B-3, Highway Business District
   
160.195   Purpose
   
160.196   Permitted uses
   
160.197   Accessory uses
   
160.198   Conditional uses
   
160.199   Interim uses
B-4, Regional Business District
   
160.215   Purpose
   
160.216   Permitted uses
   
160.217   Accessory uses
   
160.218   Conditional uses
   
160.219   Interim uses
I-1, Industrial District
   
160.230   Purpose
   
160.231   Permitted uses
   
160.232   Accessory uses
   
160.233   Conditional uses
   
160.234   Compliance with other provisions
   
160.235   Interim uses
CRP, Conservancy, Recreation and
Preservation District
   
160.250   Purpose
   
160.251   Procedure
   
160.252   Submission requirements
   
160.253   Accessory uses
   
160.254   Conditional uses
PS, Pawnshop Overlay Districts
   
160.265   Purpose
   
160.266   Permitted uses
   
160.267   Other requirements
   
160.268   District area
County Road 10 Corridor Overlay District
   
160.280   Purpose
   
160.281   Permitted uses
   
160.282   District area defined
   
160.283   Other requirements
   
160.284   Standards
   
160.285   Existing uses and structures
PUD, Planned Unit Development District
   
160.300   Purpose
   
160.301   Permitted uses
   
160.302   Special procedures
Planned Unit Developments
   
160.315   Purpose and intent
   
160.316   General requirements and standards
   
160.317   Special requirements and standards
   
160.318   Procedure
   
160.319   Submittals
Off-Street Parking
   
160.330   Purpose
   
160.331   Application
   
160.332   Definition
   
160.333   Site plan requirement
   
160.334   Use and occupancy requirements
   
160.335   Reduction of parking area
   
160.336   Parking for disabled persons
   
160.337   Calculating space
   
160.338   Stall, aisle and driveway design
   
160.339   Maintenance
   
160.340   Location
   
160.341   Use of required area
   
160.342   Schedule of off-street parking requirements
   
160.343   Proof of parking
   
160.344   Joint facilities and driveways
Off-Street Loading
   
160.355   Purpose
   
160.356   Location
   
160.357   Surfacing
   
160.358   Accessory use, parking and storage
   
160.359   Screening
   
160.360   Size
   
160.361   Schedule of off-street loading requirements
Non-Conforming Buildings, Structures and Uses
   
160.375   Purpose
   
160.376   Continuance of non-conforming uses
   
160.377   Discontinuance of non-conforming uses
   
160.378   Change of non-conforming uses
   
160.379   Repairs and maintenance
   
160.380   Alterations
   
160.381   Damage and destruction
   
160.382   Moving buildings
Wireless Telecommunications Facilities
   
160.395   Purpose
   
160.396   Definitions
   
160.397   Allowance for towers and antennas by zoning district
   
160.398   Co-location requirements
   
160.399   Siting and design requirements
   
160.400   Procedural requirements
   
160.401   Non-conforming wireless telecommunication antennas and towers
Tree Preservation and Landscaping
   
160.415   Purpose
   
160.416   Definitions
   
160.417   General tree protection requirements
   
160.418   Tree removal on lots with construction or grading activity
   
160.419   Landscaping
   
160.420   Plan review process
   
160.421   Appeal process
Renewable Energy Systems
   
160.435   Purpose
   
160.436   Definitions
   
160.437   Solar energy sources and systems
   
160.438   Geothermal energy sources and systems
   
160.439   Wind energy conversion systems
Amendments and Conditional Uses
   
160.450   Procedure
   
160.451   Initiation of amendments
   
160.452   Conditional use permit
Variances and Appeals
   
160.465   Board of Adjustment
   
160.466   Criteria for granting variances
   
160.467   Appeals
   
160.468   Procedures
   
160.469   Lapse of variance or appeal
   
160.470   Administrative variance process
Certificate of Occupancy
   
160.485   Application
   
160.486   Procedure
   
160.487   Building permits
Watershed District Rules Adopted
   
160.500   Rules adopted
   
160.501   Incorporation; conflicts
 
   
160.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 160.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Mounds View
Zoning Code”, except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as “this
chapter”.
(Prior Code, § 1101.01)
§ 160.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the Municipal
Planning Act, M.S. §§ 462.351 to 462.365, inclusive, as they may be amended
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1101.02)
§ 160.003 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and
general welfare of the community and its people through the establishment of
minimum regulations governing development and use. This chapter shall divide
the city into use districts and establish regulations in regard to location,
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and use of structures and
land. The regulations are established to protect the use areas; to promote
orderly development and redevelopment; to provide adequate light, air and
convenience of access to property; to prevent congestion in the public right-
of-way; to prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures
by regulating land, buildings, yards and density of population; to provide for
compatibility of different land uses; to provide for administration of this
chapter; to provide for amendments; to prescribe penalties for violation of
such regulations; and to define powers and duties of the city staff, the Board
of Adjustment and Appeals, the Planning and Zoning Commission and the City
Council in relation to the Zoning Code.
(Prior Code, § 1101.03)
§ 160.004 RELATION TO COMPREHENSIVE MUNICIPAL PLAN.
   It is the policy of the city that the enactment, amendment and
administration of this chapter be accomplished with due consideration for the
recommendations contained in the Comprehensive Municipal Plan as developed and
amended, from time to time, by the Planning and Zoning Commission of the city.
The Council recognizes the Comprehensive Municipal Plan as the Planning and
Zoning Commission’s recommendations for responsibility to regulate land use and
development in accordance with the policies and purpose herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 1101.04)
§ 160.005 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   If the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter are either more
or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other code, rule
or regulation of the city, the code, rule or regulation which imposes the more
restrictive conditions, standards or requirements shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 1101.05)
§ 160.006 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 1101.06)
§ 160.007 CONFORMANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
altered, and no structure or land shall be used for any purpose, nor in any
manner which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Except as herein provided, no building, structure or premises shall
hereafter be used or occupied and no building permit shall be granted that does
not conform to the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1101.07)
§ 160.008 USES NOT PROVIDED FOR WITHIN ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Whenever in any zoning district a use is neither specifically permitted, nor
denied, the use shall be considered prohibited. In such case, the City Council
or the Planning and Zoning Commission, on its own initiative or upon request,
may conduct a study to determine if the use is acceptable and, if so, what
zoning district would be most appropriate and the determination as to
conditions and standards relating to development of the use. The City Council,
Planning and Zoning Commission or property owner, upon receipt of the staff
study, shall, if appropriate, initiate an amendment to the Zoning Code to
provide for the particular use under consideration or shall find that the use
is not compatible for development within the city.
(Prior Code, § 1101.08)
§ 160.009 EFFECT OF PROVISIONS.
   The Council intends this chapter to be a comprehensive amendment to Title
1100 of the previous city code. Except as otherwise provided herein, the
provisions of this chapter are not intended to alter, diminish or increase or
otherwise modify any rights or liabilities existing on its effective date. Any
act done, offense committed or rights accruing or accrued or liability, penalty
incurred or imposed prior to the effective date hereof is not affected by its
enactment.
(Prior Code, § 1101.09)
§ 160.010 SEPARABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city that the several
provisions of this chapter are separable in accordance with the following.
   (A)   Sections of code. If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge
any provision of this chapter to be invalid, the judgment shall not affect any
other provisions of this chapter not specifically included in the judgment.
   (B)   Property and structures. If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge invalid the application of any provision of this chapter to a
particular property, building or other structure, the judgment shall not affect
the application of the provision to any other property, building or structure
not specifically included in the judgment.
(Prior Code, § 1101.10)
§ 160.011 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction.
   (A)   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   (B)   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses and the
future the present.
   (C)   The word “shall” is mandatory, while the word “may” is permissive.
   (D)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   (E)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this chapter, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition
thereof; other words or terms shall be construed as having their common
meaning.
   (F)   All measured distances expressed in feet shall be to the nearest one-
tenth of a foot.
(Prior Code, § 1102.01)
§ 160.012 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. A subordinate building or use which is located on
the same lot on which the main building or use is situated and which is
reasonably necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary use of the
building or main use.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way with a width not exceeding 24 feet, nor less
than 16 feet, which affords a secondary means of access to abutting property.
   AMUSEMENT CENTER. Any building, structure or tract of land which has as its
principal use or activity the providing of any of the amusements listed in §
111.020 of this code of ordinances and conforms to the definition of amusement
center as provided for in §
111.020 of this code of ordinances.
   ANIMAL BOARDING FACILITY. A commercial establishment in which domesticated
animals are housed for a fee or compensation. Domesticated animals include
dogs, cats or rodents such as rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, gerbils or other
animals that are typically confined to a cage or other enclosure.
   AUTO REDUCTION YARD. An open lot or yard where two or more unlicensed motor
vehicles or the remains thereof are kept for the purpose of dismantling, sale
of parts, sale of scrap, storage or abandonment.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning
engines, motor vehicles or trailers, collision service, including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair, overall painting or paint job and vehicle
steam cleaning.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Minor repairs, including body and fender work,
minor painting and upholstering service, replacement of parts and engine
service to passenger vehicles and trucks not exceeding a one-ton chassis
design.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground, but having
less than one-half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of
the adjoining ground.
   BOARDING (HOUSE) HOME or FOSTER CHILDREN. A family dwelling where children
out of their own homes are cared for.
   BOARDING HOUSE (ROOMING HOUSE). A dwelling or part thereof occupied by a
single housekeeping unit where meals and/or lodging are provided for three or
more persons, but not to exceed eight persons, for compensation by previous
arrangement, but not transients.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. Building height is to be measured from the average ground
level at the building line, to the highest roof surface.
   BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited, rented or sold or which occupies time, attention, labor and/or
materials or where services or goods are offered for compensation.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. Has the same meaning as in M.S. § 342.01.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION BUSINESS. A business with a cannabis cultivator
license, medical cannabis cultivator license, or cultivation endorsement from
the State of Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS DELIVERY BUSINESS. A business with a cannabis delivery service
license or delivery service endorsement from the State of Minnesota Office of
Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS MANUFACTURING BUSINESS. A business with a cannabis manufacturer
license or manufacturing endorsement from the State of Minnesota Office of
Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS RETAILER. A business with a cannabis retailer license, medical
cannabis retailer license, lower-potency hemp edible retailer license, or
retail endorsement from the State of Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS TESTING BUSINESS. A business with a cannabis testing facility
license or testing endorsement from the State of Minnesota Office of Cannabis
Management.
   CANNABIS TRANSPORTATION BUSINESS. A business with a cannabis transporter
license or transportation endorsement from the State of Minnesota Office of
Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS WHOLESALING BUSINESS. A business with a cannabis wholesaler license
or wholesaling endorsement from the State of Minnesota Office of Cannabis
Management.
   CARGO CONTAINER. An article of transport equipment which falls into any of
the following categories:
      (1)   Originally, specifically or formerly designed for or used in the
parking, shipping, movement, transportation or storage of freight, articles,
goods or commodities;
      (2)   Designed for or capable of being:
         (a)   Mounted or moved on a rail car;
         (b)   Mounted on a chassis or bogie for movement by a truck trailer;
or
         (c)   Loaded on to a ship.
      (3)   A prefabricated metal structure designed for use as an individual
shipping container or a metal structure designed and built for use as an
enclosed truck trailer.
   CARPORT. An accessory building open on one or more sides, utilized only for
the covered parking or storage of operable motor vehicles, all-terrain
vehicles, snowmobiles and trailers.
   CELLAR. The portion of the building having more than one-half of the clear
floor-to-ceiling heights below the average grade of the adjacent ground.
   CLUB or LODGE. A non-profit association of persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues.
   COCKTAIL ROOM. A microdistillery licensed by the state’s Department of
Public Safety; and is licensed by the city for on-sale and/or off-sale of
distilled liquor produced by the distiller for consumption on the premises of
or adjacent to one distillery location owned by the distiller. A COCKTAIL ROOM
may include a restaurant at the microdistillery.
   COLUMBARIUM. A place for the usually public storage of urns holding a
deceased’s cremated remains. COLUMBARIA can be either free-standing units, or
part of a mausoleum or another building.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which, because of special problems of control the use
presents, requires reasonable, but special, unusual and extraordinary
limitations peculiar to the use for the protection of the public welfare and
the integrity of the municipal land use plan.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Council in accordance with
procedures specified in this chapter as a flexibility device to enable the
Council to assign dimensions to a proposed use or conditions surrounding
functions and the special problems which the proposed use presents.
   CONDOMINIUM. A multiple dwelling containing individually-owned dwelling
units and jointly owned and shared areas and facilities, subject to the state’s
Condominium Law, M.S. Ch. 515, as it may be amended from time to time, and the
Uniform Condominium Act, M.S. Ch. 515A, as it may be amended from time to time.
   CONVENIENCE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which serves food in or on
disposable or edible containers in individual servings for consumption on or
off the premises.
   COOPERATIVE (HOUSING). A multiple-family dwelling owned and maintained by
the residents. The entire structure and real property is under common ownership
as contrasted to a condominium dwelling where individual units are under
separate individual occupant ownership.
   COURT. An unoccupied open space other than a yard which is bounded on two or
more sides by the walls of the buildings.
   DAY CARE, ADULT. A non-residential facility or program that provides care or
activities for elderly and/or handicapped individuals.
   DAY CARE, GROUP FAMILY. The use of residence for the care of 14 or fewer
preschool and school-age children during established business hours for less
than 24 hours per day, and which is licensed and approved by the state.
   DAY CARE CENTER, GROUP NURSERY. A facility for the care and supervision of
more than ten preschool and school-age children during established business
hours for periods of less than 24 hours per day, and which is licensed and
approved by the state. Also includes preschools and nursery schools.
   DAY CARE; HOME. The use of a residence for the care of ten or fewer
preschool and school-age children during established business hours for less
than 24 hours per day, and which is licensed and approved by the state.
   DENSITY BONUS. A bonus that may be granted in planned unit developments for
an increase of the number of dwelling units allowed within the respective
zoning district. The increase may not exceed 10%.
   DEPARTMENT STORE. A business which is conducted under a single owner’s name
wherein a variety of unrelated merchandise and services are exhibited and sold
directly to the customer for whom the goods or services are furnished.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city for which the regulations and
provisions governing the use of buildings and land are uniform for each class
of use permitted therein.
   DOG/CAT KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any premises where more than four dogs/cats over
six months of age are owned, boarded, bred or offered for sale.
   DOG/CAT KENNEL, RESIDENTIAL. Any premises where more than two, but not more
than four, dogs/cats over six months of age are owned, boarded, bred or offered
for sale.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. An establish- ment which accommodates the patron’s
automobile from which the occupants may receive a service or in which products
purchased from the establishment may be consumed.
   DRIVEWAY. A private road giving access from a public way to a building or
abutting grounds.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof occupied or intended to be occupied
exclusively for residence purposes, but not including rooms in motels, hotels,
nursing homes, rooming houses or tourist homes or a trailer, tent, cabin or
trailer coach.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A dwelling which is joined to other dwellings at both
sides by party walls, as one of a series of not more than eight dwellings
arranged in a row, including the semi-detached dwellings at the ends.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A residential building which is entirely surrounded by
open space on the same lot.
   DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
transportation after fabrication on streets or highways on its own wheels or on
flatbed or other trailers and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied
as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental
unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or other temporary or
permanent foundations, connections to utilities and the like. A travel trailer
is not to be considered as a MOBILE HOME.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building designed with three or more dwelling units
exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living independently of
each other.
   DWELLING, SEMI-DETACHED. A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling at
one side only by a party wall.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling unit designed exclusively for
occupancy by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other, also known as double bungalow,
duplex, side-by-side two-family dwellings. An accessory dwelling unit is not a
TWO-FAMILY DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY. A dwelling unit that is located on the same lot as
a single-family dwelling to which it is accessory to, and is internal or an
addition onto the principal dwelling.
   DWELLING UNIT. Residential accommodation, including complete kitchen
facilities, permanently installed, which are arranged, designed, used or
intended for use exclusively as living quarters for one family and not more
than an aggregate of two roomers or boarders. Where a private garage is
structurally attached, it shall be considered as a part of the building in
which the DWELLING UNIT is located.
   EFFICIENCY APARTMENT. A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room
exclusive of bathroom, hallway, closets or dining alcove.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance of
underground or aboveground gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or
distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems by
public utilities, municipal or other governmental agencies, but not including
buildings.
   FAMILY. One or more persons, each related to the other by blood, marriage or
adoption, or a group of not more than four persons not all so related, together
with their domestic servants or gratuitous guests, maintaining a common
household and using common cooking and kitchen facilities.
   FLOOR AREA. (For the purpose of determining off-street parking and off-
street loading requirements.) The sum of the gross horizontal FLOOR AREA of the
various floors of a building measured in square feet and from inside walls,
with the area devoted primarily to storage, aisles, fitting rooms, off-street
parking and/or loading not included.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. A figure used to determine the floor area ratio,
conversion of existing structures and maximum size of business establishments.
The sum of the gross horizontal area of the various floors of a building,
measured in square feet, and from the exterior wall in each case; cellars and
space devoted to off-street parking shall not be included.
   FURNITURE SHOWROOM. A retail facility used for the sole purpose of
displaying items for selection, but not inventoried on site.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An enclosed detached accessory building or portion of the
principal building, which is used for storing vehicles.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion of a building, except any herein
defined as a private garage used as a repair garage, used for the storage of
motor vehicles or where any such vehicles are kept for remuneration or hire and
in which any sale of gasoline, oil and accessories is only incidental to the
principal use.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. Any building, accessory building or portion thereof which is
used for repair of motor vehicles for remuneration or hire.
   GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION). The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the
building and the property line or when the property line is more than five feet
from the building, between the building and a line five feet from the building.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The lot area covered by a building measured from the
exterior faces of exterior walls, but excluding open terraces and garages.
   GUEST ROOM. A room occupied by one or more guests, for compensation, in
which no provision is made for cooking, but not including rooms in a dormitory
for sleeping purposes primarily.
   HEALTH AND BEAUTY SERVICES. Services performed for the purpose of promoting
and maintaining personal health and beauty, including hair salons, fingernail
salons, nutrition and diet centers, meditation and yoga clinics, spa treatments
(such as facials, body wrap treatments, and chemical peels) and alternative
wellness services (including such activities as aromatherapy, acupuncture and
hypnosis), excluding therapeutic massage or other businesses otherwise defined
or regulated by this code.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any gainful occupation engaged in by occupants of the
dwelling when occupation is conducted within the principal structure or the
principal structure becomes the base of operation. Subject to stipulations as
laid down in §
160.087(C) of this chapter.
   HOTEL. Any building or portion thereof occupied as the more or less
temporary abiding place of individuals and containing six or more guest rooms
used, designated or intended to be used, let or hired out to be occupied or
which are occupied by six or more individuals for compensation, whether the
compensation be paid directly or indirectly.
   IMPROVED SURFACE. A driveway or parking area constructed of asphalt,
concrete, brick or a parking area of gravel construction (according to §
160.338(G) of this chapter).
   IMPROVED SURFACE, PERMANENT. Permanent improved surfaces are those
constructed of asphalt, concrete or brick.
   JUNK YARD. An area where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, stored, boiled, cleaned, packed, disassembled or handled,
including but not limited to scrap iron and other materials, paper, rags,
rubber products, bottles and lumber. Storage of such material in conjunction
with a manufacturing process when within an enclosed area or buildings meeting
the requirements of §
160.030 of this chapter shall not be included.
   LANDSCAPING. The aesthetic and physical improvement of land by the addition
of berms, trees, shrubs, ground cover, crushed rock, wood chips, retaining
walls and other functional, ornamental or decorative features.
   LOADING SPACE. A space, accessible from a street, alley or way, in a
building or on a lot, for the use of trucks while loading and unloading
merchandise or materials.
   LODGING ROOM. A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities. In a suite of rooms without cooking facilities, each room
which provides sleeping accommodations shall be counted as one LODGING ROOM.
   LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, together with such open spaces as are required under the provisions
of these zoning regulations, having not less than the minimum area required by
this chapter for a building site in the district in which the lot is situated
and having its principal frontage on a street or a proposed street approved by
the Council.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane within the lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in an alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which does not exceed 135 degrees.
   LOT, DEPTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line measured from a 90-degree angle from the street right-of-way
within the lot boundaries.
   LOT INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single ownership;
except that, where any portion of a lot extends into the abutting public street
or alley, the LOT LINE shall be deemed to be the street or alley line, except
for purposes of taxation or assessment.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts a street, and in the case
of a corner lot, it shall be the shortest dimension on a public street; should
the dimensions be equal, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line.
If the REAR LOT LINE is less than ten feet in length or if the lot forms a
point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be deemed to be a line ten feet in
length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the lot
line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two
substantially parallel streets and which is not a corner lot. On a THROUGH LOT,
both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines; but, in case of two or more
contiguous THROUGH LOTS, there shall be a common front yard.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot,
measured within the lot boundaries. In the case of irregularly shaped lots
located on a cul-de-sac or curved street, LOT WIDTH shall be measured at the
required front and rear setback lines.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. One that is defined by M.S. Ch. 327, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   MEDICAL AND DENTAL CLINIC. A structure intended for providing medical and
dental examinations and service available to the public. This service is
provided without overnight care available.
   MICROBREWERY. A facility operated by a person licensed by the state’s
Department of Public Safety as a Minnesota microbrewer, small Minnesota brewer
or Minnesota brewer producing not more than 250,000 barrels of malt liquor
annually.
   MICRODISTILLERY. A distillery operated within the state producing premium
distilled spirits in total quantity not to exceed 40,000 proof gallons in a
calendar year.
   MOBILE HOME COURT or MOBILE HOME PARK. Any park, trailer park, trailer
court, trailer camp, court, camp, site, lot, parcel or tract of land designed,
maintained or intended for the purpose of supplying a location or
accommodations for any mobile home(s) and upon which any mobile home(s) is
parked and shall include all buildings used or intended for use as part of the
equipment thereof whether a charge is made for the use of the mobile home park
and its facilities or not. Automobile or mobile home sales lots on which
unoccupied mobile homes are parked for purposes of inspection and sale shall be
excluded from this definition.
   MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT. A mobile home which is constructed to utilize a
public water and sewer system, an external source of electric service and an
external source for heating and shall be equipped with a stool, shower or tub
and laundry facilities and shall also include manufactured homes, as defined
herein.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A section of land within a mobile home park designated as
the location for the placement of one mobile home and other such uses accessory
to the use of a mobile home residence as permitted by this chapter.
   MOTEL/MOTOR HOTEL. A building or group of detached, semi-detached or
attached buildings containing guest rooms or units, each of which has a
separate entrance directly from the outside of the building or corridor, with
garage or parking space conveniently located to each unit and which is
designed, used or intended to be used primarily for the accommodation of
transient guests.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL (TRUCK TERMINAL). A building in which freight brought
by motor truck is assembled and sorted for routing in intrastate and interstate
shipment.
   MOTOR FUEL STATION. A place where gasoline (stored only in underground
tanks), kerosene, motor oil, lubricants or grease, for operation of
automobiles, are retailed directly to the public on premises and including
minor accessories and services for automobiles, but not including major repairs
and rebuilding of automobiles.
   NEIGHBORHOOD MOTOR FUEL STATION. A place where gasoline (stored only in
underground tanks), kerosene, motor oil, lubricants or greases, for operation
of automobiles, are retailed directly to the public on premises with a small
number of fuel dispensing pumps.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE. Any structure or use which, prior to zoning
use change, does not, even though lawfully established, conform to the
applicable conditions if the structure or use was to be erected under the
guidance of this chapter.
   NOXIOUS MATTER. Material which is capable of causing injury or malaise to
living organisms or is capable of causing detrimental effect upon the health or
the social or economic well-being of human beings.
   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE. A space accessible from the street, alley or way
in a building or on the lot for the use of trucks while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials. The space shall be of a size as to accommodate one
truck of the type typically used in the particular business.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Any open land used or occupied for the purpose of buying,
selling and/or renting merchandise for storing of same prior to sale.
   OUTLOT. A parcel of land included in a plat or subdivision which is:
      (1)   Smaller than the minimum lot size and therefore unbuildable until
combined through platting or subdivision with additional land;
      (2)   Not presently proposed for development and therefore subject to
future platting or subdivision prior to development; or
      (3)   Designated for public or private open space, right-of-way,
utilities or other similar purpose.
   OUT-PATIENT CARE. Medical examination or service available to the public in
a hospital. This service is provided without overnight care and shall be
considered a separate, independent, principal use when combined or operated in
conjunction with a hospital.
   PARKING AREA. An area separate from public rights-of-way designed and
surfaced for the parking of motor vehicles including parking spaces, drive
aisles and associated access and egress routes. PARKING AREAS shall also
include emergency access lanes and loading areas.
   PARKING RAMP. An accessory structure designed and used for the storage of
motor vehicles at, below and/or above grade.
   PARKING SPACE. An improved surface and permanently maintained area meeting
the requirements of §
160.338(E)(5) of this chapter, either within or outside of a building of
sufficient size to store one standard automobile.
   PAWNBROKER.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, PAWNBROKER means a person
engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of
pledged goods left in pawn, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal
property to be left in pawn on the condition that it may be redeemed or
repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time.
      (2)   The following are exempt from the definition of PAWNBROKER: any
bank regulated by the state, the Comptroller of the Currency of the United
States, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System or any other federal or state authority and their
affiliates; any bank or savings and loan whose deposits or accounts are
eligible for insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any
successor to it and affiliates of those banks and savings and loan
associations; any state or federally chartered credit union; any industrial
loan and thrift company or regulated lender subject to licensing and regulation
by the Department of Commerce.
   PAWNSHOP. The location at which or premises in which a pawnbroker regularly
conducts business. A PAWNSHOP may only be located within a Pawnshop Overlay
District created by this chapter.
   PERMANENT. A period of time that exceeds six months.
   PERMITTED USE. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts; provided, it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and performance standards (if any) of the districts.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
organization of any kind.
   PET STORE. A structure intended for the sale of small domesticated animals.
The provision of services for pets, such as grooming, may also be available.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The main or primary building containing the principal
use of a property as distinguished from an accessory building.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either permitted or
conditional.
   RECREATION FIELD OR BUILDING. An area of land, water or any building in
which amusement, recreation or athletic sports are provided for public or semi-
public use, whether temporary or permanent, except a theater, whether provision
is made for the accommodation of an assembly or not. A golf course, arena,
baseball park, stadium, circus or gymnasium is a RECREATION FIELD OR BUILDING
for the purpose of this chapter.
   RECREATION VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle designed and primarily used for
recreational purposes.
   RECUPERATIVE HOME. Any institution, place, building or structure in which
any accommodation is maintained, furnished or offered for the recuperation of
human beings, which is the care required by a person because of emotional
problems brought about by the use of drugs, alcohol, mental problems or other
causes of emotional difficulties.
   RENTAL STORE. A business engaging in the rental of supplies or equipment.
RENTAL means the normal rental of supplies or equipment for use by customers as
distinguished from the sale of such items.
   RENTAL VENDING KIOSK. Fully automated self-service machines that dispense
and accept products in a rent and return process.
   REST HOME (NURSING HOME). A private home for the care of children or the
aged or infirm or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment which serves food in or on non-disposable
dishes to be consumed primarily while seated at tables or booths within the
building.
   RETAINING WALL. A wall or structure constructed of stone, concrete, wood or
other materials, used to retain soil, as a slope transition or edge of a
planting area.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a building and street or
lot line.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device or combination of devices, structure or part of a
device that transforms direct solar energy into thermal, chemical or electrical
energy.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy (direct, diffuse and reflected) received from
the sun.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A complete design or assembly consisting of a solar
energy collector, an energy storage facility (where used) and components to the
distribution of transformed energy.
   SOLAR SKYSPACE. The space between a solar energy collector and the sun which
must be free of obstructions that shade the collector to an extent which
precludes its cost-effective operation.
   SOLAR SKYSPACE EASEMENT. A right, expressed as an easement, covenant,
condition or other property interest in any deed or other instrument executed
by or on behalf of any landowner, which protects the solar skyspace of an
actual or designated solar energy collector at a described location by
forbidding or limiting activities or land uses that interfere with access to
solar energy. The SOLAR SKYSPACE must be described as the three-dimensional (3-
D) space in which obstruction is prohibited or limited or as the time of day
during which direct sunlight to the solar collector may not be obstructed or as
a combination of the two methods.
   SOLAR STRUCTURE. A structure designed to utilize solar energy as an
alternate for or supplement to a conventional energy system.
   STORY.
      (1)   The portion of a building included beneath the upper surface of a
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above; except that, the topmost
STORY shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling of the roof above.
      (2)   If the finished floor level directly above a basement or cellar or
unused underfloor space is more than six feet above grade, as defined herein,
for more than 50% of the total perimeter or is more than 12 feet above grade,
as defined herein, at any point, the basement, cellar or unused underfloor
space shall be considered as a STORY.
   STREET. Any public or private way set aside as a permanent right-of-way for
vehicular access 40 feet or more in width if it exists prior to 05-09-1960, and
any such public right-of-way 50 feet or more in width after 05-09-1960.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, other than incidental repairs, in the
supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders or any substantial change in the roof or
exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Any thing erected, the use of which requires more or less
permanent locations on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground.
   TAPROOM. A microbrewery licensed by the state’s Department of Public Safety;
and is licensed by the city for on-sale and/or off-sale of malt liquor produced
by the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one brewery
location owned by the brewer. A TAPROOM may include a restaurant at the
microbrewery.
   TEMPORARY. A period of time that does not exceed six months.
   TOWNHOUSE. Single-family owner-occupied attached units in structures housing
three to eight dwelling units, contiguous to each other, only by the share of
common walls, and each dwelling unit shall have separate and individual front
and rear entrances; the structures to be of the row or cluster house types as
contrasted to multiple dwelling apartment type structures.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A non-motorized drawn vehicle designed to serve wherever
parked as a temporary dwelling and/or place of business.
   UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS. Underground storage tanks, other than residential
septic tanks, are defined as tanks that are placed underground for the storage
of regular gasoline, unleaded gasoline, diesel fuel or any other products.
   USABLE OPEN SPACE. A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which is
graded, developed, landscaped and equipped, intended and maintained for either
active or passive recreation or both, available and accessible to and usable by
all persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot and their
guests. The areas shall be grassed and landscaped or covered only for a
recreational purpose. Roofs, driveways and parking areas shall not constitute
USABLE OPEN SPACE.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained and shall include the performance of the activity as defined by the
performance standards of this chapter.
   VARIANCE. The waiving by Board action of the literal provisions of this
chapter in instances where their strict enforcement would cause practical
difficulties because of unique circumstances related to the individual property
under consideration.
   VETERINARY OR ANIMAL CLINIC. A structure intended for providing medical
examinations and treatment to animals. Services would be limited to small
animals and may include boarding of animals.
   YARD. A required open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed
from its lowest level to the sky, except as otherwise permitted in this
chapter. A YARD shall extend along a lot line and at right angles to such lot
line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the district in
which such lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between side lot lines and from the abutting front street right-of-way to the
front building line in depth.
   YARD, REAR. That portion of the yard on the same lot with the principal
building, located between the rear building line as specified in the yard
regulations for the district in which the lot is located and the rear lot line
and extending the full width of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending along a side lot line between the front and
rear yards, having a width specified in the yard regulations for the district
in which the lot is located.
(Prior Code, § 1102.02) (Ord. 441, passed 05-23-1988; Ord. 448, passed 09-26-
1988; Ord. 487, passed 06-25-1990; Ord. 548, passed 09-24-1994; Ord. 590,
passed 11-25-1996; Ord. 595, passed 04-14-1997; Ord. 620, passed 07-27-1998;
Ord. 685, passed 08-27-2001; Ord. 711, passed 11-10-2003; Ord. 773, passed 08-
14-2006; Ord. 787, passed 04-09-2007; Ord. 788, passed 05-14-2007; Ord. 828,
passed 10-08-2009; Ord. 832, passed 10-08-2009; Ord. 861, passed 09-22-2011;
Ord. 867, passed 03-08-2012; Ord. 879, passed 07-22-2013; Ord. 899, passed 05-
11-2015; Ord. 917, passed 05-23-2016; Ord. 926, passed 08-22-2016; Ord. 927,
passed 08-22-2016; Ord. 970, passed 01-13-2020; Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 160.013 FEES.
   (A)   Base fee. To defray administrative and other costs of processing
applications for rezoning, variances or conditional use permits, a non-
refundable base fee shall be paid at the time an application is filed with the
city. The minimum base fee shall be per the city’s approved fee schedule.
   (B)   Deposit.
      (1)   An additional deposit shall be paid to cover all costs of public
notices, materials and staff or consultant time spent in review, research or
preparation of material for the application in excess of the base fee. The
applicant shall be given an estimate of these costs in excess of the base fee
and shall deposit such amount with the city. An additional deposit shall be
paid whenever the City Administrator determines that additional costs will be
incurred beyond those initially estimated. No action on the application shall
be taken by the city until the fees and deposits have been paid as required.
      (2)   Any portion of the deposit not spent or encumbered shall be
refunded to the applicant within 30 days after consideration of the application
is completed. Whenever an application is withdrawn prior to referral to the
Planning and Zoning Commission, a refund shall be made of any portion of the
deposit that has not been so spent or encumbered.
      (3)   No building permit or activity, for which purpose the application
is intended, may be issued or allowed until an additional cost over and above
the deposits has been paid.
(Prior Code, § 1125.04) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 160.014 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the City Administrator or
a designee as approved by the City Council, who is hereby designated as the
Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator may institute in the name of the
city any appropriate actions or proceedings against a violator as provided by
statute, Charter or code.
(Prior Code, § 1125.05) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
GENERAL BUILDING REQUIREMENTS
§ 160.025 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish general development
performance standards. These standards are intended and designed to assure
compatibility of uses, to prevent urban blight, deterioration and decay and to
enhance the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the
community.
(Prior Code, § 1103.01)
§ 160.026 DWELLING UNIT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No cellar, garage, tent, recreational vehicle, travel trailer or
accessory building shall at any time be used as an independent residence or
dwelling unit, temporarily or permanently, except as permitted pursuant to §
160.087(I) of this chapter.
   (B)   Basements or cellars, if used as habitable rooms as a portion of
residential dwellings, must conform to all Building Codes.
   (C)   Tents, playhouses or similar structures may be used for play or
recreational purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1103.02) (Ord. 927, passed 08-22-2016)
§ 160.027 PLATTED AND UNPLATTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Survey. Any person desiring to improve property shall submit to the
Building Official a survey of the premises and information on location and
dimensions of existing and proposed buildings, location of easements crossing
the property, encroachments and any other information which may be necessary to
ensure conformance to city codes.
   (B)   Placement of buildings. All buildings shall be placed so that they
will not obstruct future streets which may be constructed by the city in
conformity with existing streets and according to the system and standards
employed by the city.
   (C)   Buildable lots.
      (1)   A lot or parcel of land for which a deed has been recorded in the
office of the county’s Register of Deeds upon or prior to 05-09-1960 shall be
deemed a buildable lot; provided, it has frontage on a public right-of-way, and
the space requirements for the district in which it is located can be
maintained or adjusted to conform as follows:
         (a)   A platted lot or parcel of land of record on or prior to 05-09-
1960, which does not meet the requirements of this chapter as to area, width or
other open space may, if it is properly zoned, be utilized for single-family
detached dwelling purposes; provided, the measurements of the area, width or
open space are within 70% of the requirements under the terms of this chapter,
but the lot or parcel shall not be more intensively developed. The existing
lots that fall within 70% of the requirements and have lot widths less than
required by this chapter shall be permitted to have side yard setbacks in the
same percentage proportion as the lot width reaches the requirements of this
chapter. In no case shall a side yard setback be less than five feet.
         (b)   Where two or more contiguous vacant lots are held in common
ownership within a subdivision which was duly recorded prior to 05-09-1960,
which lots are individually not of the required minimum area or width for the
district in which they are situated, building permits will be issued; provided
that, the lots shall be combined in a way as to provide the minimum lot
frontage and area required for each structure.
      (2)   The purpose of this provision is to permit utilization of recorded
lots which lack adequate width or area, as long as reasonable living standards
can be provided, and to widen substandard size vacant lots wherever practicable
so that they will be in harmony with the existing or projected character of the
neighborhood in which they are situated.
   (D)   Principal buildings. Except in the case of planned unit developments
as provided for in §§
160.315 through
160.319 of this chapter, not more than one principal building shall be located
on a lot. The words PRINCIPAL BUILDING shall be given their common, ordinary
meanings; in case of doubt or on any question or interpretation, the decision
of the Building Official shall be final, subject to the right of appeal to the
Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council.
   (E)   Front lot lines. On a through lot (a lot fronting on two parallel
streets), pursuant to the definition of through lot in §
160.012 of this chapter, both street lines shall be front lot lines for
applying the yard and parking regulations of this chapter.
   (F)   Building permits. Before a building permit may be issued under §§
150.050 through
150.054 of this code of ordinances for any new construction on unplatted land,
the land shall be platted under the provisions of
Ch. 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1103.03) (Ord. 970, passed 01-13-2020)
§ 160.028 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, USES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Connection to principal building. An accessory building shall be
considered an integral part of the principal building if it is connected to the
principal building by a covered passageway.
   (B)   Location in yards.
      (1)   No accessory building, other than a garage, shall be erected or
located within any required yard other than the rear yard.
      (2)   Accessory uses or equipment must be located in the rear yard,
except those expressly allowed in side yards in §
160.055(E) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1103.06) (Ord. 453, passed 02-27-1989) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.029 DRAINAGE.
   In the case of all residential apartment, business and industrial
developments, the drainage plans shall be submitted to the Director of Public
Works/Parks and Recreation for review, and the final drainage plan shall have
the Director’s written approval. All drainage plans shall conform to Local
Surface Water Management Plan. The requirements of
Ch. 154 and
159 of this code or ordinances shall be met.
(Prior Code, § 1103.07) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.030 FENCING, SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Height. No fence shall exceed eight feet in height, and in the case of
grade separation, such as the division of properties by a retaining wall, the
height shall be determined on the basis of measurement from the average point
between the highest and lowest grade.
   (B)   Intersections. No structures or plantings 30 inches or more in height,
or fences shall be permitted within 30 feet of any corner formed by the
intersection of street property lines or the right-of-way of a railway
intersecting a street, except properly constructed chain link fences. The chain
link fences shall not exceed 48 inches in height from the grade level at the
lot line and shall have openings in the wire mesh of not less than one and
five-eighths inches, nor more than two and one-fourth inches. The fences may
follow the lot line to the lot corner. The 30-foot restriction noted above
shall consist of the triangle formed by connecting the two points on
intersecting lot lines that are each  30 feet from the lot corner (see
Diagram A).
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B) above, fences not to exceed 48
inches in height may be located on any part of a lot. Fences not to exceed 96
inches in height may be erected on any part of a lot behind the front line of
the principal building. The City Council may require or approve fencing up to
96 inches in height in a front yard to satisfy a buffer or screening condition
of a development review or conditional use permit (see
Diagram A).
      (2)   A fence or retaining wall shall be installed on the applicant’s
property. The fence or retaining wall shall not be installed directly over the
property line, but shall not otherwise be subject to a setback requirement,
except as provided in division (C)(3) below.
      (3)   Fences on corner lots whose side yard abuts a roadway may be six
feet in height beginning at the front building line of the principle structure.
Diagram A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2893.png]
   (D)   Landscaping required. In all zoning districts, the lot area remaining
after providing for off-street parking, off-street loading, sidewalks,
driveway, building site and/or other requirements shall be planted and
maintained in grass, sodding, shrubs or other acceptable vegetation or
treatment generally used in landscaping. The requirements of §
160.419 of this chapter must be met for all new developments in the R-3, R-4,
B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, I-1 and PUD Districts.
   (E)   Surface of fences.
      (1)   Any fence shall be so constructed that the surface facing adjoining
properties or public rights-of-way shall be of finished construction.
      (2)   No fence or wall shall obstruct natural drainage or impede the
function and flowage within a dedicated drainage easement.
      (3)   Fences located on public and semi-public properties may be erected
to a height of eight feet anywhere on the property.
   (F)   Required screening. The fencing and screening required by this chapter
shall be subject to divisions (A) through (E) above and shall consist of either
a fence or a green belt planting strip the height of which shall be sufficient
to adequately shield the activity from the abutting properties.
      (1)   A green belt planting strip shall consist of evergreen ground cover
and shall be of sufficient width and density to provide an effective screen.
This planting strip shall contain no structures or other use. The planting
strips shall not be less than eight feet in height. Earth mounding or berms may
be used but shall be limited to an average of five feet of the height of the
required screen. The planting plan and type of shrub shall require the approval
of the Planning and Zoning Commission based upon a recommendation of the
Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation and Building Inspector.
      (2)   A required screening fence shall be constructed of masonry, brick,
wood or steel. The fence shall provide a solid screening effect and not exceed
eight feet in height or be less than six feet in height. The design and
materials used in constructing a required screening fence shall be subject to
the approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission based upon a recommendation
by the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation and Building Inspector.
      (3)   Ground cover shall be established within six months, weather
permitted, following issuance of the building permit. Ground cover material
shall be of a type as to control erosion.
   (G)   Prohibited materials.
      (1)   Barbed wire, razor wire or other materials which could cause bodily
harm shall be prohibited, and no fence or property shall be wired and designed
to conduct and emit an electrical charge, except as allowed for below.
      (2)   Facilities providing essential services or municipal and
governmental services may erect barbed wire, or other materials having a
similar deterrence, upon notice to properties within 350 feet and upon approval
of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1103.08) (Ord. 658, passed 08-14-2000; Ord. 773, passed 08-14-
2006; Ord. 785, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 909, passed 11-09-2015; Ord. 1035,
passed 4-14-2025)  Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.031 GLARE.
   Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area, sign or other
structure shall be arranged as to deflect light away from any adjoining
residential zone or from the public streets. Direct or sky-reflected glare,
where from floodlights or from high temperature processes, such as combustion
or welding, shall not be directed into any adjoining property. The source of
lights shall be hooded or controlled in some manner so as not to light adjacent
property. Bare incandescent light bulbs shall not be permitted in view of
adjacent property or public right- of-way. Any light or combination of lights
which cast light on a public street shall not exceed one foot-candle (meter
reading) as measured from the centerline of the street. Any light or
combination of lights which cast light on residential property shall not exceed
four-tenths foot-candles (meter reading) as measured from the property.
(Prior Code, § 1103.09) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.032 SMOKE, DUST AND ODORS.
   As established in Minn. Rules Ch. 7001 through 7028, as amended from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 1103.10) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.033 NOISE.
   (A)   All noise shall be muffled so as not to be objectionable due to
intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness and, as measured at any property
line, shall not exceed the intensity in relation to sound frequency as
established in Minn. Rules Ch. 7030 as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   The following are exceptions to standards established in division (A)
above:
      (1)   Noises not directly under the control of the property owner;
      (2)    Noises emanating from construction and maintenance activities
between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on weekdays; and
      (3)   The noise of safety signals, warning devices and emergency pressure
relief valves.
(Prior Code, § 1103.11) (Ord. 1035, passed 4-14-2025) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.034 REFUSE.
   All materials stored outside in violation of
Ch. 50 of this code or ordinances are considered refuse and shall be disposed
of within ten days of notice from the municipality. All vehicles shall comply
with the provisions of
Ch. 91 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1103.12) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.035 STORAGE OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   All materials and equipment, except as provided for in §§
160.085 through
160.088,
160.100 through
160.104,
160.115 through
160.118,
160.130 through
160.133,
160.145 through
160.152,
160.165 through
160.169,
160.180 through
160.184,
160.195 through
160.199,
160.215 through
160.219,
160.230 through
160.235 and
160.250 through
160.254 of this chapters or listed below, shall be stored within a building or
fully screened so as not to be visible from adjoining properties.
   (B)   Storage in the front yard shall not be allowed:
      (1)   Clothesline, pole and wires;
      (2)   Off-street parking as regulated by
Ch. 71 of this code of ordinances; and
      (3)   Construction and landscaping material currently being used on the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 1103.13) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.036 LIQUID OR SOLID WASTES.
   There shall be no discharges, at any point, into any public sewer, private
sewage disposal system or stream or into the ground, except in accordance with
standards approved by the Department of Health of the state or standards
equivalent to those approved by the Department for similar uses or any
materials of a nature or temperature as can contaminate any water supply or
otherwise cause the emission of dangerous or offensive elements.
(Prior Code, § 1103.14) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.037 TOXIC OR NOXIOUS MATTER.
   No use shall, for any period of time, discharge across the boundaries of the
lot wherein it is located toxic or noxious matter of a concentration as to be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare or
cause injury or damage to property, business or persons.
(Prior Code, § 1103.15) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.038 EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   General restrictions. No activities involving the storage, utilization
or manufacture of materials or products which could decompose by detonation
shall be permitted, except such as are specifically authorized by the City
Council or allowed below. The materials shall include, but not be confined to:
all primary explosives, such as lead oxide and lead sulphate; all high
explosives and boosters, such as TNT, RDS, tetryl and ammonium nitrate,
propellants and components thereof, such as nitrocellulose, ammonium
perchlorate and nitroglycerine; blasting explosives, such as dynamite, powdered
magnesium, potassium chlorate, potassium permanganates and potassium nitrate;
and nuclear fuels and reactor elements, such as uranium 235 and plutonium.
   (B)   Storage of black powder. The possession and storage of no more than
one pound of black sporting powder and no more than 20 pounds of smokeless
powder shall be allowed; provided, it is stored in its original container.
(Prior Code, § 1103.16) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.039 UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS.
   (A)   Underground gas storage tanks shall satisfy state and federal laws.
   (B)   If a lot has one or more underground storage tanks and the business on
that lot is closed for one year, the underground storage tanks shall be
removed.
   (C)   If the closed business fails to remove the underground storage tanks
after notification by the city, in writing, the city shall have the right to
remove the tank.
   (D)   The cost of the work shall be assessed to the property.
(Prior Code, § 1103.17) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.040 SATELLITE DISH ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Residential districts. The installation of satellite dish antennas
over 36 inches in diameter in R-1, R-2 and R-5 Residential Districts shall meet
the following requirements:
      (1)   The maximum dish diameter shall be 12 feet;
      (2)   A dish with a diameter larger than three feet shall not be
installed on any structure, building, garage or accessory building, but shall
be ground mounted;
      (3)   A dish shall not be installed in a front yard or side yard;
      (4)   The location of a dish shall satisfy building setback requirements
hereof and solar skyspace easement requirements hereof;
      (5)   The total height of the installation shall not exceed 15 feet;
      (6)   A building permit is required prior to installation; and
      (7)   The installation shall comply with Federal Communication Commission
regulations.
   (B)   Other zoning districts. Installation of satellite dish antennas in
other zoning districts shall meet the following requirements: the location of a
dish shall satisfy building setback requirements hereof and solar sky space
easement requirements hereof.
   (C)   All zoning districts. Installation of satellite dish antennas 36
inches or less in diameter shall meet the following requirements: a satellite
dish shall not be installed in a public right-of-way, public easement or
wetland.
(Prior Code, § 1103.18) (Ord. 831, passed 09-03-2009) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.041 CARGO CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Permitted locations and prohibitions.
      (1)   Cargo containers may not be placed, stored or used permanently on
any property zoned for residential use. Cargo containers with alterations, such
as cosmetic or structural changes done in order for the container to appear
more like a typical accessory building, are not allowed permanently on
residential property.
      (2)   Cargo containers may be placed, stored or used for temporary
storage on property zoned for residential use. Each residential property may
use only one cargo container at a time.
   (B)   Standards. The following standards shall apply to all cargo
containers.
      (1)   Cargo containers shall not be stacked on one another.
      (2)   Cargo containers shall not be used for human habitation or
commercial purposes, and shall not be provided with refrigeration, heating,
electricity or plumbing.
      (3)   Refuse and debris shall not be stored in, against on or under the
cargo container.
      (4)   The cargo container may not occupy any required off-street parking
spaces or loading/unloading areas or fire lanes in any district.
      (5)   The cargo container shall not block, obstruct or reduce in any
manner any required exits, windows, vent shafts, parking spaces and/or access
driveways.
      (6)   The cargo container shall be placed on an asphalt or concrete
surface and be located a minimum of 15 feet from the edge of the street.
      (7)   (a)   The cargo container shall be structurally sound, stable and
in good repair. Any cargo container that becomes unsound, unstable or otherwise
dangerous shall be immediately repaired or removed from the property.
         (b)   The city shall provide notice to the owner of the property where
the cargo container is located of any condition in violation of this section.
         (c)   After notice to the property owner, any cargo container stored
or kept in a manner deemed a dangerous condition and a public nuisance as
determined by the city may be immediately removed by the city. Any cost or
expense associated with the removal shall be the responsibility of the property
owner where the cargo container is located.
   (C)   Current violations; time to comply.
      (1)   Cargo containers located on residential property prior to the
effective date of this chapter are considered illegal.
      (2)   All property owners within the city shall have 12 months from the
effective date of this chapter to bring the properties, which currently contain
cargo containers or accessory storage structures that are in violation of the
terms of this chapter, into full compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1103.19) (Ord. 879, passed 07-22-2013) Penalty, see §
160.999
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
§ 160.055 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section identifies minimum yard spaces and areas to be
provided for in each zoning district.
   (B)   Reduction of yard space. No lot, yard or other open space shall be
reduced in area or dimension so as to make such lot, yard or open space less
than the minimum required by this chapter and, if the existing yard or other
open space, as existing, is less than the minimum required, it shall not be
further reduced. No required open space provided about any building or
structure shall be included as a part of any open space required for another
structure.
   (C)   Setbacks for principal buildings. The setback distances listed in the
table below apply to principal buildings, except as otherwise provided for
conditional uses in specific zoning districts. All setback distances shown
shall be measured from the appropriate lot line. The numbered footnotes
correspond to divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4) and (C)(5) below.
         Front Yard Side Yard           Rear Yard
District Minimum    Minimum When Abuts  Minimum When Abuts Residential
                            Residential
         Front Yard       Side Yard           Rear Yard
District Minimum          Minimum When Abuts  Minimum When Abuts Residential
                                  Residential
R-1      30 (1), (4), (5) 10 (2)              30 (4)
R-2      30 (1), (4), (5) 10 (2)              30 (4)
R-3      30               10 (2)  20 (3)      30      40
R-4      30 (5)           20 (3)  20 (3)      30      50
R-5      As required under §
         160.149 of this chapter
B-1      30               10 (3)  20 (3)      20      30
B-2      30               10 (3)  20 (3)      20      30
B-3      30               10 (3)  20 (3)      20      40
B-4      30               10 (3)  30          30      40
I-1      40               20 (3)  40          40      40
         As required under §§
PUD      160.315 through
         160.319 of this chapter
 
      (1)   Where principal buildings in existence on lots within the same
block on the same side of the street have front yard setbacks different from
those required, the minimum front yard setback for any new principal buildings
shall be the minimum front yard setback in existence for any one lot. In no
case shall the front yard setback be less than 30 feet. For purposes of this
division (C)(1), a BLOCK shall be defined as that group of lots lying along a
street between the two closest intersecting streets; except that, where the
length of the street frontage between the two intersecting streets is greater
than 1,400 feet, the block shall be the lots within 650 feet on either side of
the lot in question, or to an intersecting street whichever is less.
      (2)   Not less than 30 feet from the lot line if lot is on corner and the
lot line abuts a street. The side yard setback may be reduced to five feet
between an interior side lot line and that side of a principal building which
is constructed as a garage. Where an attached garage is placed between the
five-foot and the ten-foot side yard setback which applies to principal
buildings, that portion of the garage at ten feet or less to the side lot line
shall not be converted into living space or another use.
      (3)   Not less than 30 feet from lot line if lot is on corner and lot
line abuts a street.
      (4)   Where a lot is a through lot, the minimum setback for principal
buildings from the lot line abutting the street at the rear of the lot shall be
the same as the front setback.
      (5)   Not less than 24 feet from the front line for the covered front
porch attached to the principal building. The front porch shall not be enclosed
by walls, windows, screens or similar materials.
   (D)   Minimum setbacks for accessory buildings, driveways and parking areas.
      (1)   Accessory buildings (detached from a principal building):
         (a)   R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5:
            1.   Front: no accessory building shall be located between the
front of the principal building and the front lot line;
            2.   Side: five feet, except the minimum setback shall be 30 feet
from any lot line abutting a public street; and
            3.   Rear, including street frontages at the rear of through lots:
five feet.
         (b)   All other districts:
            1.   Front: no accessory building shall be located between the
front of the principal building and the front lot line;
            2.   Side: same as principal building; and
            3.   Rear: same as principal building, except accessory buildings
having 400 square feet or less and not abutting property in a residential
district or a street, may have a minimum rear setback of ten feet.
      (2)   Driveways.
         (a)   Driveways shall have a minimum setback of five feet from any lot
line, except as permitted in §
160.344(B) of this chapter. Driveways shall be permitted to cross a required
setback area in order to establish access between the lot and a public street.
Where a driveway would encroach into an easement, the property owner shall
obtain an encroachment permit if required by the city prior to construction of
the driveway. Drive aisles and driveways which are within the boundaries of a
parking area shall conform to the setbacks required for parking areas.
         (b)   Driveways which do not conform to the provisions of this
chapter, may continue subject to the provisions of §
152.002(B) of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   Parking areas.
         (a)   R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5:
            1.   Residential uses: parking lots and driveways shall be set back
five feet. Where a parking area would encroach into an easement, the property
owner shall obtain approval for an encroachment permit if required by the
appropriate authority prior to construction of the driveway; and
            2.   Non-residential uses: parking lots and driveways shall be set
back five feet, except where non-residential uses abut property in a
residential district, the setback for parking areas from the common property
line shall be as follows:
               a.   For sites having two and one-half acres or less: 20 feet;
and
               b.   For sites having more than two and one-half acres: 30 feet.
         (b)   B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4 (parking areas and loading docks):
            1.   Front: 30 feet; and
            2.   Side and rear: five feet, except where a non-residential use
abuts a property in a residential district, the setback for parking areas from
the common property line shall be as stated in division (D)(3)(a)2. above.
         (c)   I-1 (parking areas and loading docks):
            1.   Front: 40 feet; and
            2.   Side and rear: five feet, except where a non-residential use
abuts a property in a residential district, the setback for parking areas from
the common property line shall be as stated in division (D)(3)(a)2. above.
         (d)   Parking areas which do not conform to the provisions of this
chapter, may continue subject to the provisions of §§
160.375 through
160.382 of this chapter.
   (E)   Encroachments. The following shall not be considered as encroachments
on yard setback requirements:
      (1)   Awnings, chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters,
lintels, ornamental features, cornices, eaves, gutters and the like; provided,
they do not project more than two feet into a yard;
      (2)   Bay window not to exceed three feet in depth; provided that, the
feature does not occupy more than one-third of the length of the building wall
on which it is located;
      (3)   Terraces, steps, stoops or similar features; provided, they do not
extend above the height of the ground floor level of the principal structure or
to a distance less than two feet from any lot line;
      (4)   In rear yards only: balconies and detached outdoor living rooms and
garages;
      (5)   In side yards not abutting a public street and rear yards:
recreational vehicles and equipment and laundry drying equipment; and
      (6)   In side and rear yards only: fire escapes may project a distance
not exceeding four and one-half feet, arbors and trellises, air conditioning or
heating equipment and breezeways.
(Prior Code, § 1104.01) (Ord. 524, passed 02-22-1993; Ord. 590, passed 11-25-
1996; Ord. 620, passed 07-27-1998; Ord. 642, passed 01-10-2000; Ord. 752,
passed 09-13-2004; Ord. 756, passed 01-24-2005; Ord. 827, passed 09-03-2009;
Ord. 829, passed 09-03-2009; Ord. 941, passed 04-09-2018)
§ 160.056 AREA AND BUILDING SIZE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section identifies minimum area and building size
requirements to be provided for in each zoning district.
(B)   Lot dimensions. Lot width and area shall not be less than the following:
      (1)   Width.
 
R-1 interior lot                 75 feet
R-1 corner lot, R-2, R-3 and R-4 100 feet
 
   (2)   Minimum lot area.
      (a)   Computations for lot area shall not include land beyond a depth of
150 feet on lots having less than 100-foot frontage.
      (b)   Lots having equal to or greater than 100-foot frontage may use
depths not exceeding one and one-half times the frontage in computing lot area.
      (c)   Minimum lot area requirement shall be as stated in the table below.
The lot area per dwelling unit requirements for townhouses, condominiums,
planned unit developments and multiple-family developments shall be calculated
on the basis of the total area in the project and as controlled by an
individual and/or joint ownership:
District/Type of Lot Minimum Lot Size (in square Minimum Lot Area Per Dwelling
                     feet)                       Unit (in square feet)
District/Type Minimum Lot
of Lot        Size (in     Minimum Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit (in square feet)
              square feet)
R-1, Interior
Single-Family 11,000       11,000 (no more than 1 unit per lot regardless of lot size)
Detached
R-1, Corner
Lot Single-   12,500       12,500 (no more than 1 unit per lot regardless of lot size)
Family
Detached
R-1, R-2, R-
3, R-4, R-5,
non-
residential
uses listed
as
conditional
uses, except
for
governmental  43,560 (1     
and public    acre)
utility
buildings and
structures
necessary for
the health,
safety and
general
welfare of
the community
R-2, Single-
Family                     •   12,500 for single-family detached dwellings (no more than one unit per lot
Detached;     12,500       regardless of lot size)
Two-Family                 •   6,250 for each unit in a two-family dwelling (no more than two units per lot
Attached                   regardless of lot size
Dwellings
R-3, R-
4 Single-
Family
Detached;
Two-Family                 •   Single-family detached: 11,000
Attached;                  •   Two-family: 6,250
Townhouses;                •   Townhouse: 6,500
Condominiums;              •   Multiple family: 2,500
Planned Unit
Developments;
Multiple
Family
I-1           43,560 (1     
              acre)
              No minimum;
              must allow
B-1, B-2, B-  for setbacks  
3, B-4        and parking
              requirements
              to be met
 
         (d)   Each multiple-family dwelling site shall contain at least 625
square feet of usable open space as defined by §
160.012 of this chapter for each dwelling unit contained therein.
   (C)   Height limitations.
      (1)   R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-5 Districts: no building or structure shall
have a height greater than two and one-half stories or 45 feet.
      (2)   R-4 District: no building or structure shall have a height greater
than three stories.
      (3)   B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, I-1 Districts: no building or structure shall
have a height greater than three stories.
      (4)   Exceptions: the building height limits established herein for
districts shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   Belfries;
         (b)   Chimneys or flues;
         (c)   Church spires;
         (d)   Cooling towers;
         (e)   Cupolas and domes which do not contain usable space;
         (f)   Elevator penthouses;
         (g)   Flagpoles;
         (h)   Monuments;
         (i)   Parapet walls extending not more than three feet above the
limiting height of the building;
         (j)   Water towers;
         (k)   Poles, towers and other structures for essential services;
         (l)   Necessary mechanical and electrical appurtenances; and
         (m)   Television and radio antennas not exceeding 20 feet above roof.
      (5)   No excluded roof equipment or structural element extending beyond
the limited height of a building may occupy more than 25% of the area of the
roof, nor exceed ten feet unless otherwise noted.
      (6)   The height of any accessory building or structure shall not exceed
18 feet or that of the principal structure, whichever is less.
   (D)   Minimum floor area per dwelling unit.
      (1)   One-family dwellings: the minimum first floor area for each
dwelling unit type shall be as follows:
 
One-story dwelling 960 square feet
Two-story dwelling 780 square feet
 
      (2)   Two-family dwellings: the minimum first floor area for each
dwelling unit type shall be as follows:
 
One-story per dwelling unit, two or less 960 square feet
bedrooms per unit
Two stories per dwelling unit, two or    630 square feet
less bedrooms per unit
Two bedrooms per unit                    An additional 120 square feet for each
                                         additional bedroom
 
      (3)   Multiple dwelling units: living units classified as multiple
dwellings shall have the following minimum floor areas per unit:
 
Less than One-bedroom unit  520 square feet
One-bedroom unit            630 square feet
Two-bedroom unit            750 square feet
More than two-bedroom units An additional 120 square feet for each additional
                            bedroom
 
      (4)   Townhouses: the minimum first floor area for each dwelling unit
type shall be as follows:
 
One-story dwellings, two or less 960 square feet
bedrooms
Two-story dwellings, twp or less 630 square feet
bedrooms
More than two bedrooms           An additional 120 square feet for each
                                 additional bedroom
 
   (E)   Building design standards.
      (1)   The length of all residential structures in R-1 Zones shall not
exceed three times the width, excluding garage.
      (2)   A permanent foundation of concrete, concrete block or wood and
anchoring system as approved by the Uniform Building Code, Ch. 291, is required
for all R-1 residential structures with frost footings of at least a 42-inch
depth below grade.
      (3)   All residential structures in R-1 Zones, including manufactured
homes, must comply with the state’s Building Code for single-family homes.
      (4)   All manufactured homes shall have available for inspection,
manufacturer’s instructions specifying how the home is to be situated on a
permanent foundation.
      (5)   Unless located in a designated mobile home park, all mobile homes
or manufactured homes shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1104.02) (Ord. 590, passed 11-25-1996; Ord. 828, passed 10-08-
2009; Ord. 829, passed 09-03-2009; Ord. 959, passed 07-08-2019)
§ 160.057 INTERIM USES.
   Pursuant to the authority of M.S. § 462.3597, as it may be amended from time
to time, the Council, by ordinance, may allow interim uses of property in any
district within the city, and may establish and impose conditions by ordinance,
permit or both, on any interim use.
(Prior Code, § 1126.01) (Ord. 657, passed 03-27-2000)
§ 160.058 TEMPORARY HEALTH CARE DWELLINGS.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, subd. 9, as it may be
amended from time to time, the city hereby opts out of the requirements of M.S.
§ 462.3593, as it may be amended from time to time, which defines and regulates
temporary family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 921, passed 07-11-2016)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 160.070 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   The following zoning classifications are hereby established within the city:
   (A)   Residential districts:
      (1)   R-1, Single-Family Residential District;
      (2)   R-2, Single- and Two-Family Residential District;
      (3)   R-3, Medium Density Residential District;
      (4)   R-4, High Density Residential District; and
      (5)   R-5, Mobile Home District.
   (B)   Business districts:
      (1)   B-1, Neighborhood Business District;
      (2)   B-2, Limited Business District;
      (3)   B-3, Highway Business District; and
      (4)   B-4, Regional Business District.
   (C)   Industrial district: I-1, Industrial District; and
   (D)   Special districts:
      (1)   CRP, Conservancy, Recreation and Preservation District;
      (2)   PS, Pawn Shop Overlay District; and
      (3)   PUD, Planned Unit Development District.
(Prior Code, § 1105.01) (Ord. 793, passed 01-30-2008; Ord. 829, passed 09-03-
2009)
§ 160.071 ZONING MAP.
   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this chapter are
hereby set forth on the zoning map entitled “Zoning Map of Mounds View”, as
amended from time to time. The map is on file with the City Administrator, and
is hereinafter referred to as the “zoning map”, which map and all of the
notations, references and other information shown thereon shall have the same
force and effect as if fully set forth herein and is hereby made a part of this
chapter by reference.
(Prior Code, § 1105.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 970, passed 01-13-
2020)
§ 160.072 ANNEXATIONS.
   Annexed territory shall be in the R-1 District unless special action is
taken to place it in another district.
(Prior Code, § 1105.03)
§ 160.073 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Zoning district boundary lines of this chapter follow lot lines, railroad
right-of-way lines, the center of watercourses of the corporate limit lines,
all as they exist upon the effective date hereof.
   (A)   Appeals and questions. Appeals and questions of doubt concerning the
exact location of a zoning district boundary line shall be heard by the
Planning Commission serving as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
   (B)   Vacated streets and alleys. When any street, alley or other public
right-of-way is vacated by official action of the city, the zoning district
abutting the centerline of the alley or other public right-of-way shall not be
affected by the proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 1105.04)
R-1, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 160.085 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-1, Single-Family District is to provide for low density
single-family detached residential dwelling units and directly related,
complementary uses.
(Prior Code, § 1106.01)
§ 160.086 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in an R-1 District:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings.
      (1)   Each applicant for a building permit to construct any dwellings
shall be required to provide off-street parking spaces for at least two
automobiles per family in addition to any garage spaces to be used.
      (2)   Every dwelling house hereafter erected shall be so located on the
lot so that at least a two-car garage, either attached or detached, can be
located on the lot.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued for the construction of a residential
dwelling unless the driveway servicing the property is to be improved with a
permanent surfacing material so as to control dust, drainage and erosion,
according to the requirements as set forth in §
152.999 of this code of ordinances; except that, the property owner may provide
a signed, notarized statement in which the property owner agrees to improve the
driveway in conjunction with the desired construction activities or within six
months of the commencement of such activities, in a form acceptable to the City
Attorney. For the purposes of this chapter, permanent surfacing materials are
defined as concrete, asphalt or brick.
   (B)   Permitted single-family uses allowed under M.S. § 462.357, subd. 7, as
it may be amended from time to time, as follows:
      (1)   A state licensed residential facility serving six or fewer persons,
except as provided in division (C) below;
      (2)   A licensed day care facility serving 12 or fewer persons;
      (3)   A group family day care facility licensed under Minn. Rules parts
9502.0315 to 9501.0445 to serve 14 or fewer children; and
      (4)   Residential facilities whose primary purpose is to treat juveniles
who have violated criminal statutes relating to sex offenses or have been
adjudicated delinquent on the basis of conduct in violation of criminal
statutes relating to sex offenses shall not be considered a permitted use.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B)(1) above, foster family
homes as defined in Minn. Rules 9560.0020, subp. 4, which relate to the
Department of Human Services and group homes and group foster homes as defined
in Department of Correction Rules, extracted from Minn. Rules Ch. 2925, part
2925.0100, subp. 9, shall be allowed as permitted uses to serve not more than
eight children per home, not including the foster family’s own children;
   (D)   Essential services; and
   (E)   Public parks and playgrounds.
(Prior Code, § 1106.02) (Ord. 575, passed 07-15-1996; Ord. 596, passed 03-10-
1997; Ord. 620, passed 07-27-1998; Ord. 664, passed 08-14-2000)
§ 160.087 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in an R-1 District:
   (A)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings, including garages, carports,
tool houses and sheds, whether attached or detached.
      (1)   Every R-1 zoned property improved with a single-family dwelling is
allowed a maximum of 1,800 square feet of combined accessory building area,
subject to the requirements noted herein.
      (2)   Accessory buildings shall not exceed 18 feet or that of the
principal structure, whichever is less, in height, shall be five feet or more
from all lots lines of adjoining lots and shall have a pitch or slope of at
least 2-12, but no steeper than 12-12. Rounded, dome or geodesic dome roofs are
not allowed on accessory buildings. Accessory buildings 120 square feet or
under shall be three feet or more from any other building or structure.
Accessory buildings over 200 square feet shall meet the minimum fire separation
distance as required by the state’s Building Code.
      (3)   No accessory building in an R-1 District shall exceed 952 square
feet in area, except by conditional use permit.
      (4)   The combined square footage of accessory buildings in a rear yard
shall not exceed 20% of the rear yard.
      (5)   An outdoor living room or patio shall not be used for storage of
automobiles or trucks.
      (6)   No permit shall be issued for the construction of more than three
accessory buildings in any R-1 District. One of the three permits must be for a
garage.
      (7)   Accessory buildings shall have a weather resistant, treated or
finished exterior. Structures composed of tubular metal and canvas or exposed
plywood, particle board or similar materials shall not be permitted. The city
does not allow cloth, canvas, plastic sheets and tarps or similar materials as
primary exterior materials on accessory buildings (except for green houses).
The exterior finish of carports may include sheet, ribbed or corrugated metal,
fiberglass or polycarbonate panels, and shall remain open on one or more sides.
      (8)   If any accessory building is to be utilized for the storage of
frequently-used vehicles, it shall be serviced by an improved driveway so as to
control dust, drainage and erosion, according to the requirements as set forth
in §
152.999 of this code of ordinances.
      (9)   The roof of all accessory buildings (excluding carports) exceeding
250 square feet in size shall:
         (a)   Match or be similar to the character and style of the roof of
the principal structure; and
         (b)   Have a pitch or slope of at least 2-12.
   (B)   Outdoor, uncovered parking spaces.
      (1)   Parking spaces for residential vehicles as regulated by Ch. 71, §§
91.006 and
160.330 through
160.344 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Storage of recreational vehicles and equipment leased or owned by
the resident as regulated by
Ch. 72 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Home occupations. The regulation of home occupations within
residential structures and accessory buildings is intended to ensure that the
occupational use is clearly accessory or secondary to the principal dwelling
use and that compatibility with surrounding residential uses is maintained. No
home occupation shall be allowed which:
      (1)   Involves employees other than persons residing on the premises;
      (2)   Involves alteration or construction features not customarily found
in dwellings or accessory buildings;
      (3)   Has an exterior display or sign in excess of one square foot. The
sign, for identification purposes only, shall be located on either the
principal structure or garage. Any sign existing prior to 12-29-1972 shall not
be enlarged, but may be continued at the size and location upon the date,
except as hereinafter specified or subsequently amended. Any sign erected after
12-29-1972, but prior to the effective date hereof shall come into compliance
herewith by 04-01-1983;
      (4)   Involves exterior storage of equipment or materials;
      (5)   Generates any on-street parking. All vehicles associated with a
home occupation shall be parked off-street and in compliance with the city’s
parking requirements;
      (6)    Results in violation of the provisions of
Ch. 91 of this code of ordinances; or
      (7)   Involves activity visible from the public streets.
      (8)   Massage therapy is permitted as a home occupation, subject to the
requirements of
Ch. 114 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Day care center, group nursery or adult day care operating as a
secondary or accessory use in a public or semi-public recreational building,
neighborhood or community center, public and private educational institution
limited to elementary, junior high and senior high schools, and religious
institutions, such as churches, chapels, temples and synagogues; subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   No overnight facilities are provided for the persons served. The
individuals shall be transported to and from the facility daily.
      (2)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
meet the requirements of
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   The distance between any outdoor play yard for a day care center or
group nursery and the Highway 10 right-of-way line shall be a minimum of 200
feet, except as provided in §
160.376(A)(3) of this chapter.
      (4)   No day care center or group nursery shall be permitted where the
distance from the property line for the day care center or group nursery to a
premises requiring a liquor license, as provided in
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances, or a license for an adult establishment, as
provided in
Ch. 116 of this code of ordinances, is 500 feet or less; except that, the 500-
foot requirement shall not apply to any liquor establishment receiving at least
60% of its annual gross sales revenue from the sale of food.
      (5)   The operator shall secure all necessary county or state licenses
and approvals.
   (E)   Recreational facilities. Swimming pools, patios, decks, gazebos, swing
sets, play systems and play houses, outdoor living rooms, tennis courts and
other recreational facilities which are operated for the enjoyment and
convenience of the residents of the principal use and their guests. The
facilities shall be set back five feet or more from a property line, except
swimming pools, which shall be set back ten feet or more from a property line.
   (F)   Boarding. Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than two roomers or
boarders.
   (G)   Other uses. Other allowed uses incidental to the dwelling unit,
including but not limited to: clothes lines and poles; lawn and garden
ornaments and other landscaping features; and pet house, facility or kennel. A
pet house, facility or kennel shall be set back five feet or more from a
property line.
   (H)   Solar energy sources and systems and the like. Solar energy sources
and systems and geothermal energy sources and systems as regulated by §§
160.435 through
160.439 of this chapter.
   (I)   Columbaria. Columbarium as an accessory use to a religious
institution; subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The religious institution must own the property on which the
columbarium is placed.
      (2)   The exterior of the columbaria must be stone, brick, bronze,
stainless steel or aluminum.
      (3)   The combined square footage of all accessory buildings, including
columbaria, shall not exceed 1,800 square feet.
      (4)   Columbaria shall only be placed in a side yard or rear yard area.
      (5)   Columbaria shall have a minimum side yard and rear yard setback of
five feet.
      (6)   Columbaria height shall not exceed 18 feet or that of the principal
structure, whichever is less.
      (7)   If the religious institution ceases operation, all urns and remains
must be removed from the property within three months.
   (J)   Accessory dwelling unit (internal).
      (1)   One accessory dwelling unit may be located on a lot occupied by a
single-family home (principal dwelling). The lot must comply with minimum
dimensional standards. The accessory dwelling unit shall be located within the
existing single-family home. and shall not require any exterior modifications
to the existing home, excluding doors and windows;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2582.jpg]
 
      (2)   The single-family home or the accessory dwelling unit shall be
occupied by the property owner. The property shall be homesteaded;
      (3)   An internal accessory dwelling unit shall have a minimum gross
floor area of 300 square feet and a maximum gross floor area not to exceed the
area of the floor above or below it (excluding floor overhangs);
      (4)   A minimum of one off-street parking space shall be provided tor the
accessory dwelling unit;
      (5)   Accessory dwelling units shall be licensed as a rental dwelling,
and comply with
Ch. 119 of this code of ordinances;
      (6)   Accessory dwelling units shall use the same water and sanitary
sewer connections and water meter as the single-family home;
      (7)   Accessory dwelling units with an exterior entrance different than
the single-family home’s shall have a different address (such as, 2401-A).
Addressing shall be compliant with §§
150.020 through
150.022 of this code of ordinances;
      (8)   If the mailbox post is owned and maintained by the city, then the
property owner shall reimburse the city for any alterations or replacement; and
      (9)   The property owner is responsible for additional quarterly utility
fees upon creation of an accessory dwelling unit, to include the following:
sewer service charge; surface water management utility fee; and street lighting
utility fee.
(Prior Code, § 1106.03) (Ord. 442, passed 07-11-1988; Ord. 620, passed 07-27-
1998; Ord. 664, passed 08-14-2000; Ord. 672, passed 01-22-2001; Ord. 693,
passed 03-25-2002; Ord. 828, passed 10-08-2009; Ord. 832, passed 10-08-2009;
Ord. 870, passed 04-19-2012; Ord. 879, passed 07-22-2013; Ord. 896, passed 01-
26-2015; Ord. 899, passed 05-11-2015; Ord. 904, passed 07-13-2015; Ord. 917,
passed 05-23-2016; Ord. 927, passed 08-22-2016; Ord. 975, passed 04-12-2021;
Ord. 1033, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 160.088 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in an R-1 District (requiring a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
160.450 through
160.452 of this chapter):
   (A)   Public or semi-public recreational buildings and neighborhood or
community centers, public and private educational institutions limited to
elementary, junior high and senior high schools and religious institutions;
provided that:
      (1)   Front yard depths shall be a minimum of 35 feet;
      (2)   Side yards shall be no less than 30 feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot area shall be no less than one acre, or as provided in
§
160.056(B)(2)(c) of this chapter;
      (4)   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping
is provided in compliance with §
160.030 of this chapter;
      (5)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site or
on lots directly abutting or directly across a public street to the principal
use in compliance with §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter and that such parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
160.030 of this chapter;
      (6)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided and
regulated where applicable by §§
160.355 through
160.361 of this chapter;
      (7)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met; and
      (8)   Day care center, group nursery or adult day care operating as a
secondary or accessory use in a public or semi-public recreational building,
neighborhood or community center, public and private educational institution
limited to elementary, junior high and senior high schools, and religious
institutions; subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   No overnight facilities are provided for the persons served. The
individuals shall be transported to and from the facility daily;
         (b)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall meet the requirements of
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
         (c)   The distance between any outdoor play yard for a day care center
or group nursery and the Highway 10 right-of-way line shall be a minimum of 200
feet, except as provided in §
160.376(A)(3) of this chapter;
         (d)   No day care center or group nursery shall be permitted where the
distance from the property line for the day care center or group nursery to a
premises requiring a liquor license, as provided in §§
110.015 through
110.030 of this code of ordinances, or a license for an adult establishment as
provided in Ch. 116 of this code of ordinances, is 500 feet or less; except
that, the 500-foot requirement shall not apply to any liquor establishment
receiving at least 60% of its annual gross sales revenue from the sale of food;
and
         (e)   The operator shall secure all necessary county or state licenses
and approvals.
   (B)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures necessary for
the health, safety and general welfare of the community; provided that:
      (1)   Conformity with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained and
required setbacks and side yard requirements are met;
      (2)   Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with no
outside storage;
      (3)   Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with §
160.030 of this chapter; and
      (4)   The provisions of subdivision §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (C)   Residential planned unit development as regulated by §§
160.315 through
160.319 of this chapter;
   (D)   Model homes;
   (E)   Accessory building exceeding 952 square feet.
      (1)   The accessory building must conform with §§
160.028 and
160.087(A) of this chapter;
      (2)   The combined square footage of all accessory buildings on one lot
cannot exceed 1,800 square feet;
      (3)   The building shall be designed and maintained to provide a uniform
appearance with the dwelling unit;
      (4)   The width of the building cannot exceed 35 feet;
      (5)   The building shall be a permanent structure; and
      (6)   Should the use for which the permit was granted be changed, the
permit shall be subject to reconsideration, revocation or other action
regulated by §§
160.450 through
160.452 of this chapter.
   (F)   Wireless telecommunications towers and antennas subject to the
provisions established in §§
160.395 through
160.401 of this chapter;
   (G)   Dynamic display signs subject to the standards in §
160.038(I) of this code of ordinances; and
   (H)   Accessory dwelling unit (addition).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2584.jpg]
 
      (1)   One accessory dwelling unit may be located on a lot occupied by a
single-family home. The lot must comply with minimum dimensional standards. The
accessory dwelling unit shall be located within an addition onto an existing
single-family home;
      (2)   The single-family home or the accessory dwelling unit shall be
occupied by the property owner. The property shall be homesteaded;
      (3)   An accessory dwelling unit shall have a minimum gross floor area of
300 square feet and a maximum gross floor area of 800 square feet. The exterior
design of the accessory dwelling unit shall be consistent with the character of
the single-family home;
      (4)   A minimum of one-half off-street parking space shall be provided
for the accessory dwelling unit;
      (5)   Accessory dwelling units shall be licensed as a rental dwelling,
and comply with
Ch. 119 of this code of ordinances;
      (6)   Accessory dwelling units shall use the same water and sanitary
sewer connections, and water meter as the single-family home;
      (7)   Accessory dwelling units with an exterior entrance different than
the single-family home’s shall have a different address (such as, 2401-A).
Addressing shall be compliant with §§
150.020 through
150.022 of this chapter.
      (8)   If the mailbox post is owned and maintained bv the city, then the
property owner shall reimburse the city for any alterations or replacement; and
      (9)   Property owner is responsible for additional quarterly utility fees
upon creation of an accessory dwelling unit, to include the following: sewer
service charge; surface water management utility fee; and street lighting
utility fee.
(Prior Code, § 1106.04) (Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997; Ord. 590, passed 11-25-
1996; Ord. 620, passed 07-27-1998; Ord. 664, passed 08-14-2000; Ord. 701,
passed 09-09-2002; Ord. 774, passed 08-14-2006; Ord. 818, passed 04-16-2009;
Ord. 832, passed 10-08-2009; Ord. 900, passed 05-26-2015; Ord. 927, passed 08-
22-2016)
R-2, SINGLE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 160.100 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-2, Single- and Two-Family Residential District is to
provide for low to moderate density one- and two-unit dwellings and directly
related, complementary uses.
(Prior Code, § 1107.01)
§ 160.101 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in an R-2 District:
   (A)   All permitted uses allowed in an R-1 District; and
   (B)   Two-family dwelling units.
(Prior Code, § 1107.02)
§ 160.102 ZERO LOT LINE SUBDIVISION.
   Subdivision of side-by-side, two-family dwellings (zero lot line
subdivision).
   (A)   Purpose. To provide standards and guidelines for subdividing side-by-
side two-family dwellings.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   The subdivisions cannot create lots or structures which are in
violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Each resulting dwelling unit shall have separate utility services.
      (3)   Each resulting dwelling unit shall meet existing building codes.
   (C)   Specific requirements for resulting dwelling units.
      (1)   Area requirements: 6,250 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width: 50 feet per dwelling unit.
      (3)   Setback requirements:
         (a)   Front yard: 30 feet;
         (b)   Rear yard: 30 feet; and
         (c)   Side yard (where applicable):
            1.   Ten feet; and
            2.   Thirty feet on street side of corner lot.
      (4)   Driveway widths: the width of the driveway servicing one dwelling
unit shall not exceed the width of that dwelling unit’s garage, unless garages
are situated side-by-side, then not to exceed the combined width of the
garages; provided that, the affected property owners have filed a right-of-way
and maintenance agreement with the county, according to the provisions of §
160.344(B) of this chapter pertaining to joint driveways.
      (5)   Curb cut width: the width of a curb cut servicing one dwelling unit
shall not exceed 20 feet. In the event of a common or joint driveway servicing
both units, the width of the curb cut shall not exceed 36 feet.
   (D)   Deed restrictions. Deed restrictions shall be recorded with the
property to include the following.
      (1)   If one dwelling unit is burned or destroyed, it shall be
reconstructed in a uniform appearance.
      (2)   If both dwelling units are burned or destroyed, minimum lot widths
shall then prevail as for single-family homes.
      (3)   A double dwelling unit may be rebuilt meeting the original
conditions of this chapter.
      (4)   A uniform exterior appearance, in terms of color, design and
maintenance shall be maintained.
   (E)   Disputes. Any disputes must be submitted to binding arbitration
according to the rules of the state’s arbitration association.
   (F)   Development controls. 
Ch. 150 of this code of ordinances shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1107.03) (Ord. 642, passed 01-10-2000)
§ 160.103 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in an R-2 District: all accessory
uses as allowed in an R-1 District.
(Prior Code, § 1107.04)
§ 160.104 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in an R-2 District (requiring a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
160.450 through
160.452 of this chapter):
   (A)   All conditional uses, subject to the same conditions as allowed in an
R-1 District; and
   (B)   Day care center, group nursery; provided that:
      (1)   No overnight facilities are provided for the children served.
Children are delivered and removed daily;
      (2)   The front yard depth shall be a minimum of 35 feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot area shall be no less than one acre, or as provided in
§
160.056(B)(2)(c) of this chapter;
      (4)   Not less than 40 square feet of outside play space per child shall
be provided and that the space be suitably fenced and/or screened in accordance
with conditions as specified by the City Council;
      (5)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided in compliance
with §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter;
      (6)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided in
compliance with §§
160.355 through
160.361 of this chapter;
      (7)   The site and related parking and service entrances shall be served
by an arterial or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the
traffic which will be generated;
      (8)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
      (9)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met;
      (10)   The distance between any outdoor play yard for a day care center
or group nursery and the Highway 10 right-of-way line shall be a minimum of 200
feet, except as provided in §
160.376(A)(3) of this chapter; and
      (11)   No day care center or group nursery shall be permitted where the
distance from the property line for the day care center or group nursery to a
premises requiring a liquor license, as provided in §§
110.015 through
110.030 of this code of ordinances, or a license for an adult establishment, as
provided in Ch. 116 of this code of ordinances, is 500 feet or less; except
that, the 500-foot requirement shall not apply to any liquor establishment
receiving at least 60% of its annual gross sales revenue from the sale of food.
(Prior Code, § 1107.05) (Ord. 590, passed 11-25-1996; Ord. 595, passed 04-14-
1997)
R-3, MEDIUM DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 160.115 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-3, Medium Density Residential District is to provide
for medium density housing in multiple-family structures ranging up to and
including six units and directly related complementary uses.
(Prior Code, § 1108.01)
§ 160.116 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in an R-3 District:
   (A)   All permitted uses allowed in an R-2 District;
   (B)   Townhouses up to six units as regulated herein;
   (C)   Boarding houses as defined in §
160.012 of this chapter and limited to not more than eight persons;
   (D)   Boarding (house) home; foster children: restricted to a family
dwelling in which children out of their own homes, ages 16 years or under, or
in the case of mental retardation, age 21 or under, are cared for 24 hours a
day for a period of 30 days. The number to be cared for in one foster child
boarding (house) home shall not exceed 12, including the foster family’s own
children;
   (E)   Day care home:
      (1)   Restricted to a family dwelling in which foster care, supervision
and training for children of school or preschool age out of their own home is
provided during part of a day (less than 24 hours) with no overnight
accommodations or facilities and children are delivered and removed daily.
      (2)   The number to be cared for in one day care home shall not exceed
12, including the family’s own children;
   (F)   Public parks and playgrounds; and
   (G)   Essential services.
(Prior Code, § 1108.02) (Ord. 698, passed 04-22-2002)
§ 160.117 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in an R-3 District:
   (A)   All permitted accessory uses allowed in an R-2 District;
   (B)   Enclosed garage stalls, the number of which shall not exceed the
number of dwelling units in the principal building. Individual stalls shall not
exceed 250 square feet each and shall be attached to one another by common
interior walls which meet the state’s Building Code requirements. All setback
requirements as specified in §
160.055(D) of this chapter shall be met; and
   (C)   Off-street loading.
(Prior Code, § 1108.03) (Ord. 620, passed 07-27-1998)
§ 160.118 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in an R-3 District (requiring a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
160.450 through
160.452 of this chapter):
   (A)   All conditional uses allowed in an R-2 District;
   (B)   Multi-family dwelling structures containing six or less dwelling
units; and
   (C)   Multi-family dwelling expansion.
      (1)   A conditional use permit (CUP) shall be required prior to any
proposed multiple-family residential expansion. (For the purposes of this
section, expansion shall mean an increase in the building foot print or an
increase in the number of dwelling units in the building.) Developments having
already obtained a CUP shall go through the amendment process as identified in
§§
160.450 through
160.452 of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition to the criteria outlined in §§
160.450 through
160.452,
160.465 through
160.470 and
160.485 through
160.487 of this chapter, all proposed expansions shall satisfy all relevant
zoning, building and parking code requirements.
(Prior Code, § 1108.04) (Ord. 698, passed 04-22-2002; Ord. 716, passed 06-23-
2003)
R-4, HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL  DISTRICT
§ 160.130 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-4, High Density Residential District is to provide for
high density residential uses and directly related complementary uses.
(Prior Code, § 1109.01)
§ 160.131 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in R-4 District:
   (A)   All permitted uses allowed in an R-3 District; and
   (B)   Townhouses up to eight units as regulated herein.
(Prior Code, § 1109.02) (Ord. 698, passed 04-22-2002)
§ 160.132 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in an R-4 District: all permitted
accessory uses allowed in an R-3 District.
(Prior Code, § 1109.03)
§ 160.133 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in an R-4 District (requiring a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
160.450 through
160.452,
160.465 through
160.470 and
160.485 through
160.487 of this chapter):
   (A)   All conditional uses, subject to the same conditions as allowed in an
R-3 District;
   (B)   Nursing homes and other senior congregate housing, but not including
hospitals, sanitariums or similar institutions; provided that:
      (1)   Side yards double the minimum requirements established for this
District and are screened in compliance herewith;
      (2)   Minimum lot area shall be no less than one acre, or as provided in
§
160.056(B)(2)(c) of this chapter;
      (3)   Only the rear yard shall be used for play or recreational area. The
area shall be fenced and controlled and screened in compliance herewith;
      (4)   The site shall be served by an arterial or collector street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate traffic which will be generated;
      (5)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
      (6)   All state laws and statutes governing such use are strictly adhered
to, and all required operating permits are secured;
      (7)   One off-street loading space in compliance with §§
160.355 through
160.361 of this chapter is provided; and
      (8)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met. The required
parking ratio shall be one stall per employee on the shift having the most
personnel present, plus one stall for every three beds or fraction thereof.
   (C)   Parking facilities for adjacent commercial or multiple dwelling
establishments; provided that:
      (1)   The parking is in excess of that required on the lot upon which the
principal use is located;
      (2)   Applicable conditions of §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter are satisfactorily met and fully complied with;
      (3)   When parking is the principal use, adequate screening from abutting
residential uses and landscaping is provided in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (4)   The site of the principal use and its related parking is served by
an arterial or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the
traffic which will be generated; and
      (5)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered satisfactorily met.
   (D)   Multiple-family dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 1109.04) (Ord. 590, passed 11-29-1996; Ord. 639, passed 09-27-
1999; Ord. 698, passed 04-22-2002)
R-5, MOBILE HOME DISTRICT
§ 160.145 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-5, Mobile Home District is to provide for the planned
regulation of mobile homes. The homes are grouped together due to their
particular space requirements, construction and style.
(Prior Code, § 1110.01)
§ 160.146 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in an R-5 District:
   (A)   Mobile home and manufactured home parks;
   (B)   Public parks and playgrounds; and
   (C)   Essential services.
(Prior Code, § 1110.02)
§ 160.147 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Permitted accessory uses for mobile home and manufactured home parks
are limited to:
      (1)   Entryway airlock up to 50 square feet;
      (2)   Entryway airlock exceeding 25 square feet must bear the State
Building Inspector’s Seal of Code compliance;
      (3)   Detached accessory building (216 square foot maximum);
      (4)   Deck;
      (5)   Patio; and
      (6)   Room addition, up to 200 square feet, bearing the State Building
Inspector’s Seal of Code compliance.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses for R-5 District uses other than mobile home
and manufactured home parks: all permitted accessory uses in an R-4 District.
(Prior Code, § 1110.03)
§ 160.148 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in an R-5 District (requiring a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
160.450 through
160.452,
160.465 through
160.470 and
160.485 through
160.487 of this chapter):
   (A)   Improvement, enlargement, extension or alteration of an existing
mobile home park;
   (B)   Public or semi-public recreational buildings and neighborhood or
community centers; public and private educational institutions limited to
elementary, junior high and senior high schools; and religious institutions;
provided that:
      (1)   Front yard depths shall be a minimum of 35 feet;
      (2)   Side yards shall be no less than 30 feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot area shall be no less than one acre, or as provided in
§
160.056(B)(2)(c) of this chapter;
      (4)   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping
is provided in compliance with §
160.030 of this chapter;
      (5)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site or
on lots directly abutting or directly across a public street to the principal
use in compliance with §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter and that such parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
160.030 of this chapter;
      (6)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided and
regulated where applicable by §§
160.355 through
160.361 of this chapter; and
      (7)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (C)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures necessary for
the health, safety and general welfare of the community; provided that:
      (1)   Conformity with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained, and
required setbacks and side yard requirements are met;
      (2)   Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with no
outside storage;
      (3)   Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with §
160.030 of this chapter; and
      (4)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (D)   Residential planned unit development as regulated by §§
160.315 through
160.319 of this chapter;
   (E)   Model homes;
   (F)   Townhouses as regulated herein;
   (G)   Day care center, group nursery; provided that:
      (1)   No overnight facilities are provided for the children served.
Children are delivered and removed daily;
      (2)   The front yard depth shall be a minimum of 35 feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot area shall be no less than one acre, or as provided in
§
160.056(B)(2)(c) of this chapter;
      (4)   Not less than 40 square feet of outside play space per child be
provided and that such space be suitably fenced and/or screened in accordance
with conditions as specified by the City Council;
      (5)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided in compliance
with §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter;
      (6)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided in
compliance with §§
160.355 through
160.361 of this chapter;
      (7)   The site and related parking and service entrances shall be served
by an arterial or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the
traffic which will be generated;
      (8)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
      (9)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met;
      (10)   The distance between any outdoor play yard for a day care center
or group nursery and the Highway 10 right-of-way line shall be a minimum of 200
feet, except as provided in §
160.376(A)(3) of this chapter; and
      (11)   No day care center or group nursery shall be permitted where the
distance from the property line for the day care center or group nursery to a
premises requiring a liquor license, as provided in §§
110.015 through
110.030 of this code of ordinances, or a license for an adult establishment, as
provided in
Ch. 116 of this code of ordinances, is 500 feet or less; except that, the 500-
foot requirement shall not apply to any liquor establishment receiving at least
60% of its annual gross sales revenue from the sale of food.
   (H)   Nursing homes or similar group housing but not including hospitals,
sanitariums or similar institutions; provided that:
      (1)   Side yards are double the minimum requirements established for this
district and are screened in compliance with §
160.030 of this chapter;
      (2)   Minimum lot area shall be no less than one acre, or as provided in
§
160.056(B)(2)(c) of this chapter;
      (3)   Only the rear yard shall be used for play or recreational areas.
The area shall be fenced and controlled and screened in compliance with §
160.030 of this chapter;
      (4)   The site shall be served by an arterial or collector street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate traffic which will be generated;
      (5)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
      (6)   All state laws and statutes governing such use are strictly adhered
to, and all required operating permits are secured;
      (7)   One off-street loading space in compliance with §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter is provided; and
      (8)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (I)   Parking facilities for adjacent commercial or multiple dwelling
establishments; provided that:
      (1)   The parking is in excess of that required on the lot upon which the
principal use is located;
      (2)   Applicable conditions of §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter are satisfactorily met and fully complied with;
      (3)   When parking is the principal use, adequate screening from abutting
residential uses and landscaping is provided in compliance with §
160.030 of this chapter;
      (4)   The site of the principal use and its related parking is served by
an arterial or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the
traffic which will be generated; and
      (5)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and subject to the provisions
established satisfactorily met.
   (J)   Wireless telecommunications towers and antennas subject to the
provisions established in §§
160.395 through
160.401 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1110.04) (Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997; Ord. 590, passed 11-25-
1996; Ord. 595, passed 04-14-1997; Ord. 900, passed 05-26-2015)
(Prior Code, § 1110.01)
§ 160.149 MOBILE HOME AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Application. In order to obtain approval for a mobile home or
manufactured home park, the property owner shall first apply, in writing, to
the City Administrator on such form as the City Administrator may, from time to
time, designate. The application shall include a development plan and a plat
plan prepared by and bearing the seal of a state-registered surveyor or
engineer, showing the following:
      (1)   Name and address of owner and developer(s);
      (2)   The existing plat or a proposed preliminary plat of the site;
      (3)   Location and size of all individual lots, storage areas, recreation
areas, laundry drying areas, roadways, parking sites, central office and
shelters;
      (4)   Location and size of all streets abutting the park and all proposed
driveways from such streets to the park;
      (5)   Street construction and surfacing plans and specifications;
      (6)   Plans for sanitary sewage disposal, surface water drainage, water
supply systems, electrical service and gas service;
      (7)   Setback dimensions;
      (8)   Plans for any and all structures;
      (9)   Detailed landscaping plans and specifications;
      (10)   Lighting plans and specifications;
      (11)   Location and width of sidewalks;
      (12)   Description of the method of disposing of garbage and refuse;
      (13)   Detailed description of maintenance procedures and grounds
supervision;
      (14)   Proposed development schedule, including proposed deadlines for
completion of each stage; and
      (15)   Such other information as required by the City Council or Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Design standards. All mobile home or manufactured home park site plans
shall conform to the following standards:
      (1)   Park site:
         (a)   Shall be drained and properly graded and meet criteria set out
in the municipal code for storm or other waters; and
         (b)   Shall have at least two points of ingress and egress for
vehicles.
      (2)   Individual lots:
         (a)   Each home lot shall contain at least 4,950 square feet of land
area for the exclusive use of the occupant:
            1.   Width: no less than 45 feet; and
            2.   Depth: no less than 110 feet.
         (b)   Each mobile home lot shall have frontage on an approved roadway,
and the corner of each mobile home lot shall be marked, and each site shall be
numbered.
         (c)   A concrete slab or surface patio shall be constructed on the
ground beside each parking space. The slab or patio shall be not less than 160
square feet and shall be a minimum of four inches thick.
      (3)   Setbacks:
            (a)   A mobile home or manufactured home park site shall have a
minimum setback from adjacent properties of at least 30 feet, and this area
shall be landscaped. Screening and buffer zones shall be established on the
perimeter of the mobile home park in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
            (b)   There shall be an unused area not less than 30 feet in depth
along each street or roadway, and this area shall be sodded and landscaped.
            (c)   No mobile home or manufactured home shall be parked closer
than five feet to the side lot lines nor closer than 20 feet to the front lot
line or within ten feet of the rear lot line.
            (d)   There shall be an open space of at least ten feet between the
side of adjacent mobile or manufactured homes.
            (e)   Off-street automobile parking spaces shall not be nearer than
five feet from any lot line.
      (4)   Off-street automobile parking:
            (a)   Each lot shall have off-street parking space for one
automobile;
            (b)   Each park shall maintain a hard surfaced off-street parking
lot for guests of occupants in the amount of one space for each five sites; and
            (c)   Access drives from roadways to all parking spaces and sites
shall be hard surfaced.
      (5)   Utilities:
            (a)   All mobile or manufactured homes shall be connected to a
public water and sanitary sewer system or a private water and sewer system
approved by the state’s Department of Health and the Director of Public Works/
Parks and Recreation;
            (b)   Disposal of surface storm water shall conform to the city’s
Storm Water Management Plan and shall be approved by the City Council;
            (c)   All utility connections shall be approved by the city;
            (d)   The source of fuel for cooking, heating or other purposes at
each site shall be as approved by the city;
            (e)   All utilities shall be underground, including those for
street and exterior lighting purposes. There shall be no overhead wires or
supporting poles;
            (f)   No obstruction shall be permitted that impedes the inspection
of plumbing, electrical facilities and related mobile and manufactured home
equipment.
            (g)   The method of garbage, waste and trash disposal must be
approved by the city;
            (h)   Owner shall pay all required sewer connection fees to the
city; and
            (i)   Fire hydrants shall be installed throughout the park in such
locations and to such specifications as required by the Fire Chief.
      (6)   Internal roadways, streets and sidewalks:
            (a)   Roadways shall be hard surfaced to meet the standards for at
least a seven-ton street;
            (b)   All roads shall have hard surfaced, mountable, roll type
curbs and gutters;
            (c)   All streets shall have a roadbed of not less than 30 feet in
width. No parking shall be permitted on the street unless the roadbed shall be
at least 40 feet in width;
            (d)   All streets and ways are hereby declared public to the extent
that they shall be under the supervision and control of the police enforcement
powers of the city with respect to traffic laws and such other laws as shall be
applicable to public ways and places; and
            (e)   A cement sidewalk, not less than 30 inches wide shall be
constructed adjacent to the concrete curb of all streets. This sidewalk shall
be connected to each lot patio by a cement walk not less than 24 inches in
width.
      (7)   Landscaping:
            (a)   Each individual lot shall be properly landscaped with hedges,
grass sodding, fences, windbreaks and at least one tree of two inches in
diameter;
            (b)   A compact hedge, privacy fence or landscaped area conforming
to the provisions of §
160.030 of this chapter shall be installed around each mobile home or
manufactured home park and be maintained at all times; and
            (c)   All areas shall be landscaped in accordance with a plan
approved by the Council.
      (8)   Recreation: the owner(s) of all mobile or manufactured home parks
shall improve, for the use of occupants, at least 10% of the park’s total land
areas for recreational use (tennis courts, children’s play equipment, swimming
pool, golf green and the like).
      (9)   Lighting:
            (a)   Artificial light shall be maintained during all hours of
darkness in all public or community buildings; and
            (b)   The park grounds shall be lighted as approved by the City
Council from sunset to sunrise.
      (10)   Shelters: each park shall include suitable storm and disaster
shelter facilities constructed below ground to accommodate the number of people
established by the following formula:
Shelter space (number of people) = 0.75 x number of lots x 2.5
(Prior Code, § 1110.05) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 160.150 OPERATION OF MOBILE HOME OR MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
   The owner of a mobile home or manufactured home park shall be responsible
for assuring that the following regulations are complied with by the park and
its occupants.
   (A)   Cleanliness. All areas of the park shall be properly drained, kept
free from dust and maintained clean and free from refuse and debris.
   (B)   Owner occupied. All individual mobile or manufactured homes shall be
owner occupied; except that, each owner may lease their mobile or manufactured
home to a lessee for a period not to exceed five months in any calendar year.
The park owner shall maintain a record of all such leases.
   (C)   Placement on lots. The placement of more than one mobile or
manufactured home on any single lot unit shall not be permitted.
   (D)   Residential uses. Mobile or manufactured homes shall not be used for
residential purposes if they:
      (1)   Do not conform to the requirements of the Vehicle Code of the
state;
      (2)   Are in an unsanitary condition or have an exterior in bad repair;
      (3)   Are structurally unsound and do not protect the inhabitants against
all elements; and
      (4)   Do not conform to the requirements of §§
150.085 and
160.086 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Registry. The operator of every mobile or manufactured home park shall
maintain a registry of the park showing:
      (1)   The name and address of each resident mobile or manufactured home
owner;
      (2)   The make, type and license number of each mobile home and the make
and type of each manufactured home;
      (3)   Forwarding address of all mobile homes leaving park; and
      (4)   Date of arrival and departure of each mobile home.
   (F)   Map. A map of the park shall be displayed near the entrance to the
park and shall be illuminated during all hours of darkness.
   (G)   Established sites. No persons shall be allowed to reside in a park,
except those occupying mobile or manufactured homes on established individual
sites or a central office or caretaker building.
   (H)   Number of occupants. No mobile or manufactured home may be inhabited
by a greater number of occupants than that for which it was developed.
   (I)   Tie downs. Each mobile home installed after 05-01-1977, shall have a
ground support system and tie downs meeting the requirements of M.S. §§ 327.31
to 327.34, as they may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   Any such homes installed during the period beginning November 15
and ending March 31 shall conform to this requirement no later than April 1.
      (2)   Any such homes installed during the period beginning April 1 and
ending November 14 shall conform to this requirement immediately upon
installation.
   (J)   Enclosed area. The area beneath each mobile home shall be enclosed;
except that, such enclosure must have access for inspection.
   (K)   Loudspeakers. No public address or loudspeaker system shall be
permitted in such park.
   (L)   Animals. Dogs and animals shall not run at large within the park.
   (M)   Laundry. Laundry and clothing shall be hung out to dry only on lines
located in areas established and maintained exclusively for that purpose.
   (N)   Storage of boats and equipment. No boats, hauling trailers or other
equipment shall be stored upon the streets of the park or upon the patios or
open spaces of any individual lot.
   (O)   Building permits. The installation or construction of any structures
or improvements within a park shall require a building permit as provided under
§§
150.050 through
150.054 of this code of ordinances. All plans for the installation or
construction shall meet the requirements of the state’s Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 1110.06)
§ 160.151 LOCATION.
   (A)   Compliance with provisions. It shall be unlawful within the city for
any person to park any mobile home or manufactured home on any street or
highway or other public place or on any tract of land owned by any person,
occupied or unoccupied within the city, except as provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   Emergency stopping and parking. Emergency or temporary stopping or
parking is permitted on any street or highway for not longer than three hours,
subject to any other and further prohibitions and parking regulations or
ordinances for that street or highway.
   (C)   Parking or occupying mobile homes. No person shall park or occupy any
mobile home or manufactured home which is situated outside of an approved
mobile home park; except that, the parking and storage of no more than one
mobile home in an accessory private garage building or in a rear yard in any
district is permitted; providing that, no living quarters shall be maintained,
nor any business practiced in the mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 1110.07)
§ 160.152 TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   Temporary mobile home permits may be issued by the City Council for the
temporary use of a mobile home as a temporary office when the mobile home is
located outside of an authorized mobile home park. The City Council may
establish such conditions for the mobile home as it deems appropriate to ensure
the health, safety and general welfare. The temporary mobile home permit shall
be limited to periods of not more than 90 days. Upon written application, the
City Council may renew such permit. A fee as set forth in the city’s fee
schedule must accompany each application for a temporary mobile home permit and
a fee as set forth in the city’s fee schedule for each renewal thereof. Each
temporary mobile home permit shall be displayed in a conspicuous location on
the outside of the mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 1110.09)
B-1, NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 160.165 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the B-1, Neighborhood Business District is to provide for the
establishment of local centers for convenient, limited office, retail or
service outlets which deal directly with the customer for whom the goods or
services are furnished. These centers are to provide services and goods for the
surrounding neighborhoods and are not intended to draw customers from the
entire community.
(Prior Code, § 1112.01)
§ 160.166 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The following are permitted uses in a B-1 District:
      (1)   Barber shops;
      (2)   Beauty parlors;
      (3)   Convenience grocery stores (not supermarket type);
      (4)   Essential services;
      (5)   Laundromat, self-service washing and drying;
      (6)   Thrift or second-hand store;
      (7)   Retail business for local or neighborhood needs subject to the
following limits:
            (a)   The sale of dry goods, clothing, notions and variety
merchandise; and
            (b)   The sale of books, magazines, newspapers, gifts, jewelry,
music, stationery or office supplies.
      (8)   Dry cleaning and laundry receiving and pick-up stations (with no
cleaning or pressing done on site);
      (9)   Florist shop;
      (10)   Candy and ice cream stores (shall not include drive-through and/or
window pick-up services);
      (11)   Tailor shop, dress making, clothing rental store;
      (12)   Professional and service business offices such as accountant,
architect, broker, engineer, attorney, realtor, appraiser, finance agency,
insurance agency, investment agency, travel agency, mortgage company;
      (13)   Medical, dental, chiropractic, counseling or other health-related
office or clinic; and
      (14)   Repair store that provides services for the repair of home,
garden, yard and personal use appliances, tool or equipment (except for
motorized vehicles or gas-powered equipment). All repair work shall be done
inside the building and there shall not be any outdoor sales or storage.
   (B)   The city will allow uses similar to those listed above in this section
if the proposed use would not create a nuisance and if the use would not be
noxious or hazardous. The City Council shall review uses that are not clearly
similar to those listed in this section for a determination of compatibility.
(Prior Code, § 1112.02) (Ord. 845, passed 06-24-2010)
§ 160.167 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in a B-1 District:
   (A)   Commercial or business buildings and structures for a use accessory to
the principal use, but such use shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor space
of the principal use;
   (B)   Off-street parking as regulated by §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter, but not including semi-trailer trucks;
   (C)   Off-street loading as regulated by §§
160.355 through
160.361 of this chapter;
   (D)   Signs as regulated by
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
   (E)   Temporary open or outdoor services, sales and rental as an accessory
use and including sales in or from motorized vehicles, trailers or wagons,
subject to the following.
      (1)   The activity shall not continue for a period greater than ten
consecutive days or for more than three ten-day periods per year. Permit
periods must be separated by a minimum of 30 days;
      (2)   Notwithstanding Art. 13, § 7, of the Minnesota Constitution, a
permit issued by the city shall be obtained prior to commencing the activity;
      (3)   A permit will not be issued without the written consent of the
property owner;
      (4)   The sales area shall be grassed or surfaced to control dust;
      (5)   The activity shall not take up parking space as required for
conformity of this chapter; and
      (6)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light source
shall not be visible from the public right-of-way or from neighboring
residences and shall be in compliance with §§
160.030 and
160.031 of this chapter.
   (F)    Outdoor vending kiosks; provided that:
      (1)   The kiosks shall accept only electronic forms of payment;
      (2)   The kiosks may be placed only at retail stores, motor fuel stations
and restaurants;
      (3)   The kiosk shall be placed immediately adjacent to the host
business’s building;
      (4)   No loss of parking or interference with the flow of traffic,
accessibility or egress shall occur due to the placement of a vending kiosk.
   (G)   Solar energy sources and systems and geothermal energy sources and
systems as regulated by §§
160.435 through
160.438 of this chapter; and
   (H)   Temporary outdoor food sales as an accessory use and including sales
in or from motorized vehicles, trailers or wagons, subject to the following.
      (1)   The activity shall not continue on the same property for a period
greater than 21 consecutive days.
      (2)   A license issued by the city shall be obtained prior to commencing
the activity if otherwise required by Title XI of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   A permit will not be issued without the written consent of the
property owner.
      (4)   The sales area shall be grassed or surfaced to control dust.
      (5)   The activity shall not take up parking space as required for
conformity of this chapter.
      (6)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light source
shall not be visible from the public right-of-way or from neighboring
residences and shall be in compliance with §§
160.030 and
160.031 of this chapter.
      (7)   The provisions of §
160.167(E) of this chapter are not applicable to temporary outdoor food sales
as an accessory use.
(Prior Code, § 1112.03) (Ord. 733, passed 05-10-2004; Ord. 735, passed 05-10-
2004; Ord. 867, passed 03-08-2012; Ord. 896, passed 01-26-2015; Ord. 902,
passed 05-26-2015; Ord. 970, passed 01-13-2020; Ord. 989, passed 03-28-2022)
Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.168 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in a B-1 District (requiring a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
160.450 through
160.452 of this chapter):
   (A)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures necessary for
the health, safety and general welfare of the community; provided that:
      (1)   Conformity with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained and
required setbacks and side yard requirements are met;
      (2)   Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with no
outside storage;
      (3)   Adequate screening and landscaping from neighboring residential
districts is provided in accordance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter; and
      (4)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (B)   Professional and commercial (leased) offices; provided that:
      (1)   The traffic generated will not raise traffic volumes beyond the
capacity of the surrounding streets;
      (2)   The architectural appearance of the building housing the office use
shall reflect the building character of the area and shall not be so dissimilar
as to cause impairment of property values or constitute a blighting influence
within the neighborhood; and
      (3)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (C)   Commercial planned unit development as regulated by §§
160.315 through
160.319 of this chapter;
   (D)   Wireless telecommunications towers and antennas subject to the
provisions established in §§
160.395 through
160.401 of this chapter; and
   (E)   Day care center, group nursery; provided that:
      (1)   No overnight facilities are provided for the children served.
Children are delivered and removed daily;
      (2)   The front yard depth shall be a minimum of 35 feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot area shall be no less than one acre, or as provided in
§
160.056(B)(2)(c) of this chapter;
      (4)   Not less than 40 square feet of outside play space per child be
provided and that such space be suitably fenced and/or screened in accordance
with conditions as specified by the City Council;
      (5)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided in compliance
with §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter;
      (6)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided in
compliance with §§
160.355 through
160.361 of this chapter;
      (7)   The site and related parking and service entrances shall be served
by an arterial or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the
traffic which will be generated;
      (8)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
      (9)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met;
      (10)   The distance between any outdoor play yard for a day care center
or group nursery and the Highway 10 right-of-way line shall be a minimum of 200
feet, except as provided in §
160.376(A)(3) of this chapter; and
      (11)   No day care center or group nursery shall be permitted where the
distance from the property line for the day care center or group nursery to a
premises requiring a liquor license, as provided in §§
110.015 through
110.030 of this code of ordinances, or a license for an adult establishment, as
provided in
Ch. 116 of this code of ordinances, if 500 feet or less; except that, the 500-
foot requirement shall not apply to any liquor establishment receiving at least
60% of its annual gross sales revenue from the sale of food.
(Prior Code, § 1112.04) (Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997; Ord. 590, passed 11-25-
1996; Ord. 595, passed 04-14-1997; Ord. 896, passed 01-26-2015)
§ 160.169 INTERIM USES.
   (A)   The following are interim uses in a B-1 District requiring an interim
use permit. An interim use permit must be obtained in accordance with
procedures identical in form and substance to the conditional use permit
procedures found in §
160.452 of this chapter. Interim use permits may be approved for a determined
or undetermined period of time at the sole discretion of the City Council.
   (B)   Temporary tents and/or membrane structures, under the following
conditions.
      (1)   The tent or membrane structure shall comply with all provisions of
the Fire Code and receive an annual fire permit issued by the Fire Marshal.
      (2)   The property owner shall annually apply for a zoning permit, the
duration of which cannot exceed 180 days.
      (3)   Adequate parking to accommodate the occupancy shall be provided at
a ratio of one parking space per 40 square feet of tent area. (The City Council
may waive the parking requirement if it can be shown that the site has
sufficient existing parking capacity.)
      (4)   The structure may not be located in or on a parking lot displacing
parking stalls, unless it can be shown that an adequate amount of parking
remains.
      (5)   The tent or membrane structure shall be subject to same building
setbacks as the principal building on the lot. No tent or membrane structure
shall be allowed instead of or without a principal building.
      (6)   The tent or membrane structure shall be limited in size to 5,000
square feet or 10% of the principal building’s square footage, whichever is
less.
      (7)   The membrane or cover shall be constructed of a durable reinforced
material to withstand wind and snowloads.
      (8)   The structure shall be anchored to the ground.
      (9)   The tent or membrane structure shall be maintained in a good
condition. Deficiencies shall be corrected as soon as practicable.
      (10)   The IUP can be reviewed at any time by the city if problems arise
which would necessitate revision or termination of the IUP.
      (11)   The IUP would become null and void if the property owner fails to
comply with the provisions of the permit or if the structure is removed for
more than a one-year period, or if the property undergoes a change of
ownership.
      (12)   Exceptions:
            (a)   Tents or membrane structures erected for periods that do not
exceed one week shall not require an interim use permit; however, a zoning
permit and fire permit are required regardless of the time frame.
            (b)   To eliminate duplication of review, when a use (such as,
outdoor sales or storage) would otherwise require a conditional use permit, an
interim use permit shall not be required if a tent or membrane structure is
involved and is addressed as part of the CUP.
(Prior Code, § 1112.05) (Ord. 735, passed 05-10-2004)
B-2, LIMITED BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 160.180 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the B-2, Limited Business District is to provide for low
intensity, retail or service outlets which deal directly with the customer for
whom the goods or services are furnished. The uses allowed in this district are
to provide goods and services on a limited community market scale and located
in areas which are well served by collector or arterial street facilities at
the edge of residential districts.
(Prior Code, § 1113.01)
§ 160.181 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in a B-2 District:
   (A)   Service-oriented businesses: service-oriented businesses which serve
the city community:
      (1)   Bank, savings and loan, savings credit unions and other financial
institutions;
      (2)   Commercial (leased and professional offices);
      (3)   Copy service but not including printing press or newspaper;
      (4)   Dry cleaning pick-up and laundry pick-up stations, including
incidental repair and assembly but not including processing;
      (5)   Educational or instructional facilities;
      (6)   Employment agencies;
      (7)   Finance companies;
      (8)   Health and beauty services;
      (9)   Insurance sales, claims and branch offices;
      (10)   Locksmith;
      (11)   Medical and dental offices and clinics;
      (12)   Public utility collection offices;
      (13)   Real estate sales;
      (14)   Shoe repair;
      (15)    Therapeutic massage as defined and regulated in
Ch. 114 of this code of ordinances. Massage therapy is also included as an
accessory use in an R-1, Single-Family District as set forth in §
160.087(C)(8) of this code of ordinances; and
      (16)   Travel bureaus, transportation ticket offices.
   (B)   Retail: limited retail uses which have, as the principle use, sales
with warehousing or display secondary to that use:
      (1)   Adult establishment as defined and regulated in
Ch. 116 of this code of ordinances;
      (2)   All permitted uses as allowed in the B-1 Neighborhood Business
Districts;
      (3)   Antique shop;
      (4)   Art and school supplies;
      (5)   Auto accessory or motor vehicle parts store with no repairs,
installations or service work done on any motor vehicles on site, and with no
outside sales or storage;
      (6)   Bakery goods and baking of goods for retail sales on the premises;
      (7)   Bicycle sales and repair;
      (8)   Books or stationery stores;
      (9)   Camera and photographic supplies;
      (10)   Candy, ice cream, popcorn, nuts, frozen desserts and soft drinks;
      (11)    Cannabis delivery service;
      (12)   Cannabis retailer, subject to the requirements in §
121.008;
      (13)   Coin and philatelic stores;
      (14)   Costume, clothes rental;
      (15)   Delicatessen;
      (16)   Drugstore;
      (17)   Fabric store;
      (18)   Florist shop;
      (19)   Frozen food store, but not including a locker plant;
      (20)   Furniture showroom without warehousing;
      (21)   Gift or novelty store;
      (22)   Hardware store;
      (23)   Hobby store, including handicraft classes, but not to exceed 15
students;
      (24)   Ice sales with storage not to exceed five tons;
      (25)   Jewelry stores and watch repair;
      (26)   Leather goods and luggage stores;
      (27)   Liquor, off-sale;
      (28)   Meat market, but not including processing for a locker plant;
      (29)   Office supplies and equipment;
      (30)   Plumbing, television, radio, electrical sales and such repair as
are accessory use to the retail establishments permitted within this district;
      (31)   Record/music shops;
      (32)   Restaurant, café and tea room with a maximum of 24 seats and 2,000
square feet in floor area. The restaurant shall not include drive-thru and/or
window pick-up services or the serving of food to patrons in their vehicles;
      (33)   Rugs, carpet, tile, paint and wallpaper sales;
      (34)   Shoe stores;
      (35)   Small appliance sales and service;
      (36)   Sporting goods store;
      (37)   Tailor shops;
      (38)   Toy stores;
      (39)   Video rental, sales and service; and
      (40)   Wearing apparel.
   (C)   Tattoo, body piercing, body branding, body painting or body scarring
establishments; provided that:
      (1)   Any such establishment shall be separated by no less than 1,000
feet from any other such establishment located within the city, as measured
from the property lines of the property upon which the uses are located;
      (2)   The minimum floor space for such use shall be 250 square feet; and
      (3)   The establishment and operators shall be licensed and be in
compliance with §§
111.100 through
111.104 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1113.02) (Ord. 452, passed 02-27-1989; Ord. 487, passed 06-25-
1990; Ord. 574, passed 05-13-1996; Ord. 632, passed 07-26-1999; Ord. 663,
passed 09-11-2000; Ord. 798, passed 09-10-2007; Ord. 856, passed 02-03-2011;
Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025; Ord. 1035, passed 4-14-2025)
§ 160.182 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in a B-2 District: all permitted
accessory uses as allowed in a B-1 District.
(Prior Code, § 1113.03)
§ 160.183 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in a B-2 District (requiring a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
160.450 through
160.452 of this chapter):
   (A)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures necessary for
the health, safety and general welfare of the community; provided that:
      (1)   Conformity with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained, and
required setbacks and side yard requirements are met;
      (2)   Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with no
outside storage;
      (3)   Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in accordance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter; and
      (4)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (B)   Commercial planned unit development as required by §§
160.315 through
160.319 of this chapter;
   (C)   Veterinary clinics, animal clinics and animal boarding facilities;
provided that:
      (1)   Noise and odor are effectively confined to the premises in
accordance with Ch. 91 of this code of ordinances;
      (2)   A mechanical ventilation or exhaust system shall be installed to
control, capture and remove emissions or odors generated by the use. The
systems shall be separate from other ventilation systems in the building. The
system shall be designed to prevent the migration of emissions or odors to
other parts of the building. Installation must comply with Minnesota Building
Code Mechanical Systems, Ch. 1346;
      (3)   All animal boarding activities shall be conducted indoors, except
for necessary outdoor exercise. At no time shall any animal be left
unsupervised while outdoors;
      (4)   Outdoor exercise shall be conducted so as not to unreasonably
annoy, injure or endanger the health, safety, comfort or welfare of the public;
      (5)   All animal boarding facilities shall comply with the nuisance codes
established for the city; and
      (6)   All animal boarding facilities shall comply with the state’s Pet
and Companion Animal Welfare Act (M.S. §§ 346.35 through 346.44, as they may be
amended from time to time).
   (D)   Pet stores; provided that:
      (1)   Noise and odor are effectively confined to the premises in
accordance with
Ch. 91 of this code of ordinances;
      (2)   The boarding of animals is prohibited, except for the purposes of
retail sales;
      (3)   A mechanical ventilation or exhaust system shall be installed to
control, capture and remove emissions or odors generated by the use. The
systems shall be separate from the other ventilation systems in the building.
The system shall be designed to prevent the migration of emissions or odors to
other parts of the building. Installation must comply with the state’s Building
Code Mechanical Systems, Ch. 1346.
   (E)   Wireless telecommunications towers and antennas subject to the
provisions established in §§
160.395 through
160.401 of this chapter;
   (F)   Day care center, group nursery; provided that:
      (1)   No overnight facilities are provided for the children served.
Children are delivered and removed daily;
      (2)   The front yard depth shall be a minimum of 35 feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot area shall be no less than one acre, or as provided in
§
160.056(B)(2)(c) of this chapter;
      (4)   Not less than 40 square feet of outside play space per child be
provided and that such space be suitably fenced and/or screened in accordance
with conditions as specified by the City Council;
      (5)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided in compliance
with §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter;
      (6)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided in
compliance with §§
160.355 through
160.361 of this chapter;
      (7)   The site and related parking and service entrances shall be served
by an arterial or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the
traffic which will be generated;
      (8)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
      (9)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met;
      (10)   The distance between any outdoor play yard for a day care center
or group nursery and the Highway 10 right-of-way line shall be a minimum of 200
feet, except as provided in §
160.376(A)(3) of this chapter; and
      (11)   No day care center or group nursery shall be permitted where the
distance from the property line for the day care center or group nursery to a
premises requiring a liquor license, as provided in §§
110.015 through
110.030 of this code of ordinances, or a license for an adult establishment, as
provided in
Ch. 116 of this code of ordinances, if 500 feet or less; except that, the 500-
foot requirement shall not apply to any liquor establishment receiving at least
60% of its annual gross sales revenue from the sale of food.
   (G)   Neighborhood motor fuel station; provided that:
      (1)   Regardless of whether the dispensing, sales or offering for sale of
motor fuels and/or oil is incidental to the conduct of the use or business, the
standards and requirements imposed by this chapter for motor fuel stations
shall apply. These standards and requirements are, however, in addition to
other requirements which are imposed for other uses of the property;
      (2)   There shall be a maximum of four motor fuel dispensing pumps on the
site;
      (3)   There shall be no automotive service, repair or rebuilding allowed
on the site;
      (4)   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or area as to
cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting influence within
a reasonable distance of the lot;
      (5)   The entire site, other than that taken up by a building, structure
of plantings, shall be surfaced with a material to control dust, drainage and
erosion which is subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works/Parks
and Recreation;
      (6)   A minimum lot area of 22,500 square feet and minimum lot dimensions
of 150 feet by 130 feet be provided;
      (7)   A drainage system, subject to the approval of the Director of
Public Works/Parks and Recreation, shall be installed;
      (8)   A curb not less than six inches above grade shall separate the
public sidewalk from motor vehicle service areas;
      (9)   The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way as to have no
direct source of light visible from adjacent land in residential use or from
the public right-of-way and shall be in compliance with §
160.031 of this chapter;
      (10)   Wherever fuel pumps are to be installed, pump islands shall be
installed;
      (11)   At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than ten feet shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (12)   Each light standard island and all islands in the parking lot
shall be landscaped or covered;
      (13)   Parking or car magazine storage space shall be screened from view
of abutting residential districts in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (14)   Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement, shall comply with §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter and shall be subject to the approval of the Director of
Public Works/Parks and Recreation;
      (15)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be minimized and shall be in compliance with
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
      (16)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise;
      (17)   No outside storage except as allowed in compliance with division
(D) above shall exist;
      (18)   No outside sale or service shall exist;
      (19)   Sale of products other than those specifically mentioned in this
section shall be subject to the conditional use permit;
      (20)   All conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to change
when the City Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal request,
finds that the general welfare and public betterment can be served as well or
better by modifying the conditions; and
      (21)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (H)   Car washes as an accessory use to a neighborhood fuel station (drive
through, mechanical and self-service); provided that:
      (1)   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or area as to
cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting influence within
a reasonable distance of the lot;
      (2)   Magazining or stacking space is constructed to accommodate that
number of vehicles that can be washed during a maximum 30-minute period and
shall be subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works/Parks and
Recreation;
      (3)   At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than ten feet shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (4)   Each light standard island and all islands in the parking lot shall
be landscaped or covered;
      (5)   Parking or car magazine storage space shall be screened from view
of abutting residential districts in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (6)   The entire area, other than occupied by the building or plantings,
shall be surfaced with material that will control dust, drainage and erosion
that is subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works/Parks and
Recreation;
      (7)   The entire area shall have a drainage system that is subject to the
approval of the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation;
      (8)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light source
is not visible from the public right-of-way or from an abutting residence and
shall be in compliance with §
160.031 of this chapter;
      (9)   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum of
conflict with through traffic movement and shall be subject to the approval of
the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation;
      (10)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall comply with
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
      (11)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise; and
      (12)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (I)    Restaurants, cafés and tea rooms with more than 24 seats and/or 2,000
square feet of floor area. The restaurant shall not include drive-thru and/or
window pick-up services or the serving of food to patrons in their vehicles;
   (J)   Taproom and/or cocktail room as an accessory use of a microbrewery
and/or microdistillery; and
   (K)   Cannabis manufacturer when on the same premises as a cannabis
retailer, subject to the requirements in §
121.008, under a microbusiness license.
(Prior Code, § 1113.04) (Ord. 441, passed 05-23-1988; Ord. 448, passed 09-26-
1988; Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997; Ord. 590, passed 11-25-1996; Ord. 595,
passed 04-14-1997; Ord. 685, passed 08-27-2001; Ord. 788, passed 04-09-2007;
Ord. 833, passed 09-03-2009; Ord. 856, passed 02-03-2011; Ord. 896, passed 01-
26-2015; Ord. 926, passed 08-22-2016; Ord. 970, passed 01-13-2020; Ord. 1025,
passed 2-10-2025)
§ 160.184 INTERIM USES.
   The following are interim uses in a B-2 District requiring an interim use
permit. An interim use permit must be obtained in accordance with procedures
identical in form and a substance to the conditional use permit procedures
found in §
160.452 of this chapter. Interim use permits may be approved for a determined
or undetermined period of time at the sole discretion of the City Council: all
permitted interim uses as allowed in a B-1 District.
(Prior Code, § 1113.05) (Ord. 735, passed 05-10-2004)
B-3, HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 160.195 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the B-3, Highway Business District is to provide for and
limit the establishment of motor vehicle oriented or dependent commercial and
service activities.
(Prior Code, § 1114.01)
§ 160.196 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in a B-3 District:
   (A)   All permitted uses as allowed in a B-2 Limited Business District;
   (B)   Amusement centers;
   (C)   Auto accessory stores;
   (D)   Bowling alleys;
   (E)   Commercial recreational uses;
   (F)   Grocery stores, supermarkets;
   (G)   Motels, motor hotels and hotels; provided that, the lot area contains
not less than 500 square feet of lot area per unit;
   (H)   Private clubs or lodges serving food and beverages with use being
restricted to members and their guests. Adequate dining room, kitchen and bar
space must be provided according to standards imposed upon similar unrestricted
customer operations. The serving of alcoholic beverages to members and their
guests shall be allowed; provided that, the service is in compliance with
applicable federal, state and municipal regulations. Offices of the use shall
be limited to no more than 20% of the gross floor area of the building;
   (I)   Public or semi-public recreational buildings and neighborhood or
community centers, public and private educational institutions limited to
elementary, junior high and senior high schools and religious institutions;
   (J)   Rental stores;
   (K)   Restaurants, cafés, tea rooms, taverns, on- and off-sale liquor;
   (L)   Taxi terminals, stands and offices;
   (M)    Microbrewery with taproom;
   (N)   Microdistillery with cocktail room;
   (O)   Cannabis retailer, subject to the requirements in §
121.008;
   (P)   Cannabis delivery service; and
   (Q)   Cannabis manufacturer when on the same premises as a cannabis
retailer, subject to the requirements in §
121.008, and under a cannabis microbusiness license.
(Prior Code, § 1114.02) (Ord. 452, passed 02-27-1989; Ord. 581, passed 06-10-
1996; Ord. 617, passed 06-08-1998; Ord. 900, passed 05-26-2015; Ord. 926,
passed 08-22-2016; Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 160.197 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in a B-3 District: all permitted
accessory uses as allowed in a B-2, Limited Business District.
(Prior Code, § 1114.03)
§ 160.198 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in a B-3 District (requiring a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
160.450 through
160.452 of this chapter):
   (A)   Drive-thru business; provided that the provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered satisfactorily met.
   (B)   Car washes (drive through, mechanical and self-service); provided
that:
      (1)   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or area as to
cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting influence within
a reasonable distance of the lot;
      (2)   Magazining or stacking space is constructed to accommodate that
number of vehicles which can be washed during a maximum 30-minute period and
shall be subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works/Parks and
Recreation;
      (3)   At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than ten feet shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (4)   Each light standard island and all islands in the parking lot shall
be landscaped or covered;
      (5)   Parking or car magazine storage space shall be screened from view
of abutting residential districts in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (6)   The entire area, other than occupied by the building or plantings,
shall be surfaced with material which will control dust, drainage and erosion
which is subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works/Parks and
Recreation;
      (7)   The entire area shall have a drainage system which is subject to
the approval of the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation;
      (8)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light source
is not visible from the public right-of-way or from an abutting residence and
shall be in compliance with §
160.031 of this chapter;
      (9)   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum of
conflict with through traffic movement and shall be subject to the approval of
the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation;
      (10)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
      (11)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise; and
      (12)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (C)   Motor fuel station, auto repair, minor and tire battery stores and
service; provided that:
      (1)   Regardless of whether the dispensing, sales or offering for sale of
motor fuels and/or oil is incidental to the conduct of the use or business, the
standards and requirements imposed by this chapter for motor fuel stations
shall apply. These standards and requirements are, however, in addition to
other requirements which are imposed for other uses of the property;
      (2)   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or area as to
cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting influence within
a reasonable distance of the lot;
      (3)   The entire site, other than that taken up by a building, structure
or plantings, shall be surfaced with a material to control dust, drainage and
erosion which is subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works/Parks
and Recreation;
      (4)   A minimum lot area of 22,500 square feet and minimum lot dimensions
of 150 feet by 130 feet be provided;
      (5)   A drainage system, subject to the approval of the Director of
Public Works/Parks and Recreation, shall be installed;
      (6)   A curb not less than six inches above grade shall separate the
public sidewalk from motor vehicle service areas;
      (7)   The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way as to have no
direct source of light visible from adjacent land in residential use or from
the public right-of-way and shall be in compliance with §
160.031 of this chapter;
      (8)   Wherever fuel pumps are to be installed, pump islands shall be
installed;
      (9)   At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than ten feet shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (10)   Each light standard island and all islands in the parking lot
shall be landscaped or covered;
      (11)   Parking or car magazine storage space shall be screened from view
of abutting residential districts in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (12)   Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement, shall comply with §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter and shall be subject to the approval of the Director of
Public Works/Parks and Recreation;
      (13)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be minimized and shall be in compliance with
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
      (14)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise;
      (15)   No outside storage except as allowed in compliance with division
(D) below shall exist;
      (16)   No outside sale or service except as allowed in compliance with
division (E) below shall exist;
      (17)   Sale of products other than those specifically mentioned in this
section shall be subject to the conditional use permit;
      (18)   All conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to change
when the City Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal request,
finds that the general welfare and public betterment can be served as well or
better by modifying the conditions; and
      (19)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (D)   Open and outdoor storage as an accessory use; provided that:
      (1)   The area is fenced and screened from view of neighboring uses or if
abutting an R District in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (2)   Storage is screened from view from the public right-of-way in
compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (3)   Storage area is grassed or surfaced to control dust;
      (4)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light source
shall not be visible from the public right-of-way or from neighboring
residences and shall be in compliance with §
160.031 of this chapter;
      (5)   The open and outdoor storage does not take up parking space as
required for conformity to this chapter; and
      (6)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (E)   Open or outdoor service, sale and rental as a principal or accessory
use and including sales in or from motorized vehicles, trailers or wagons for a
period greater than ten days;
      (1)   Outside services, sales and equipment rental connected with the
principal use is limited to 30% of the gross floor area of the principal use;
      (2)   Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of neighboring
identical uses or an abutting R district in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (3)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light source
shall not be visible from the public right-of-way or from neighboring
residences and shall be in compliance with §§
160.030 and
160.031 of this chapter;
      (4)   Sales area is grassed or surfaced to control dust;
      (5)   The open or outdoor service, sale or rental use does not take up
parking space as required for conformity of this chapter; and
      (6)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (F)   An accessory use which is a permitted use in a B-2 District, and:
      (1)   The use does not constitute more than 30% of the lot area and not
more than 50% of the gross floor area of the principal use;
      (2)   The off-street parking and off-street loading requirements of §§
160.330 through
160.344 and
160.355 through
160.361 of this chapter have been met;
      (3)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances; and
      (4)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (G)   Motor vehicle and recreation equipment sales and garages accessory
thereto; provided that:
      (1)   Motor vehicle sales shall be on one lot or contiguous lots not
separated by a public street, alley or other use;
      (2)   The minimum lot width shall be 150 feet at the minimum required
front yard setback, as defined in §
160.055 of this chapter;
      (3)   A minimum lot area of two acres is required;
      (4)   Setbacks shall be as required in §
160.055 of this chapter;
      (5)   The entire site on which motor vehicle sales is located, other than
that devoted to buildings and structures or landscaped areas shall be surfaced
and maintained with a material to control dust, drainage and erosion which is
subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation;
      (6)   A drainage system, subject to the approval of the Director of
Public Works/Parks and Recreation, shall be installed and maintained. All
provisions shall apply as included in §§
160.025 through
160.041 of this chapter and
Ch. 155 and
159 of this code of ordinances;
      (7)   The following parking requirements shall be met:
         (a)   All customer and employee parking spaces shall be permanently
and clearly marked;
         (b)   For every three employees, a minimum of two employee parking
spaces shall be provided;
         (c)   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces for each service
stall are required; and
         (d)   The foregoing required parking spaces shall be shown and
designated on the site plan.
      (8)   All outdoor illumination on sales lots shall be provided with
lenses, reflectors, or shades, which will concentrate the light upon the
premises so as to prevent glare or direct rays and shall be in compliance with
§
160.031 of this chapter;
      (9)   The maximum areas permitted for outside storage of motor vehicles
can not exceed two square feet of outside storage to each one square foot of
enclosed ground floor area. Not more than one automobile shall be stored on
each 40 square feet of outside storage. No rooftop parking shall be permitted;
      (10)   Accessory buildings to be used solely for sales offices shall not
be permitted. Such accessory buildings as are permitted shall be constructed of
the same materials as the main structure;
      (11)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
      (12)   A minimum 10% of the property, excluding setback requirements, is
required for landscaped green space. The planting plan and type of shrubbery
shall require approval of the Planning Commission based upon a recommendation
of City Forester;
      (13)   A natural screen shall be erected and maintained along all
property lines separating the site from any residential district. The screening
shall include landscaping (trees, shrubs, grass and the like) of a type
(layout, species, height, size and density) in compliance with §
160.030 of this chapter;
      (14)   The hours of operation of the facility shall not exceed 7:00 a.m.
to 10:00 p.m.;
      (15)   Test driving routes and patterns must be submitted and approved
prior to operation of an automobile sales lot;
      (16)   No music or advertisement will be allowed over paging systems;
      (17)   All provisions shall apply as included in §
160.025 of this chapter relating to noise within the city code; and
      (18)   All car lots shall be brought into conformance within seven years
of the date this chapter is effective.
   (H)   Wireless telecommunications towers and antennas subject to the
provisions established in §§
160.395 through
160.401 of this chapter;
   (I)   Day care center, group nursery; provided that:
      (1)   No overnight facilities are provided for the children served.
Children are delivered and removed daily;
      (2)   The front yard depth shall be a minimum of 35 feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot area shall be no less than one acre, or as provided in
§
160.056(B)(2)(c) of this chapter;
      (4)   Not less than 40 square feet of outside play space per child be
provided and that the space be suitably fenced and/or screened in accordance
with conditions as specified by the City Council;
      (5)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided in compliance
with §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter;
      (6)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided in
compliance with §§
160.355 through
160.361 of this chapter;
      (7)   The site and related parking and service entrances shall be served
by an arterial or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the
traffic which will be generated;
      (8)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
      (9)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met;
      (10)   The distance between any outdoor play yard for a day care center
or group nursery and the Highway 10 right-of-way line shall be a minimum of 200
feet, except as provided in §
160.376(A)(3) of this chapter; and
      (11)   No day care center or group nursery shall be permitted where the
distance from the property line for the day care center or group nursery to a
premises requiring a liquor license, as provided in §§
110.015 through
110.030 of this code of ordinances, or a license for an adult establishment, as
provided in
Ch. 116 of this code of ordinances, is 500 feet or less; except that, the 500-
foot requirement shall not apply to any liquor establishment receiving at least
60% of its annual gross sales revenue from the sale of food.
   (J)   Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging, or treatment of
cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, and food products and the rendering or refining of
fats and oils.
(Prior Code, § 1114.04) (Ord. 570, passed 01-08-1996; Ord. 581, passed 06-10-
1996; Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997; Ord. 595, passed 04-14-1997; Ord. 733,
passed 05-10-2004; Ord. 896, passed 01-26-2015; Ord. 977, passed 07-26-2021;
Ord. 1003, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 160.199 INTERIM USES.
   The following are interim uses in a B-3 District requiring an interim use
permit. An interim use permit must be obtained in accordance with procedures
identical in form and substance to the conditional use permit procedures found
in §
160.452 of this chapter. Interim use permits may be approved for a determined
or undetermined period of time at the sole discretion of the City Council: all
permitted interim uses as allowed in a B-2 District.
(Prior Code, § 1114.05) (Ord. 735, passed 05-10-2004)
B-4, REGIONAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 160.215 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the B-4, Regional Business District is to provide for the
establishment of commercial and service activities which draw from and service
customers from the entire community or region.
(Prior Code, § 1115.01)
§ 160.216 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in a B-4 District:
   (A)   All permitted uses as allowed in a B-3 District;
   (B)   Amusement places (such as dance halls or roller rinks);
   (C)   Enclosed boat and marine sales;
   (D)   Department and discount stores;
   (E)   Dry cleaning, including plant accessory heretofore, pressing and
repairing;
   (F)   Electrical appliance stores, including incidental repair and assembly,
but not fabricating or manufacturing;
   (G)   Furniture stores;
   (H)   Garden supply stores;
   (I)   Public garage;
   (J)    Theaters, not of the outdoor drive-in type;
   (K)   Variety stores, five- and ten-cent stores and stores of similar
nature;
   (L)   Cannabis retailer, subject to the requirements in §
121.008; and
   (M)   Cannabis delivery business.
(Prior Code, § 1115.02) (Ord. 452, passed 02-27-1989; Ord. 617, passed 06-08-
1998; Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 160.217 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in a B-4 District: all permitted
accessory uses as allowed in a B-3 District.
(Prior Code, § 1115.03)
§ 160.218 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in a B-4 District (requiring a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
160.450 through
160.452 of this chapter):
   (A)   Open and outdoor storage as an accessory use; provided that:
      (1)   The area is fenced and screened from view of neighboring
residential uses or if abutting a residential district in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (2)   Storage is screened from view from the public right-of-way in
compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (3)   Storage area is grassed or surfaced to control dust;
      (4)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light source
shall not be visible from the public right-of-way or from neighboring
residences and shall be in compliance with §
160.031 of this chapter; and
      (5)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (B)   Open or outdoor service, sale and rental as an accessory use and
including sales in or from motorized vehicles, trailers or wagons for a period
greater than ten days:
      (1)   Outside service, sales and equipment rental connected with the
principal use is limited to 30% of the gross floor area of the principal use;
      (2)   Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of neighboring
residential uses or an abutting residential district in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
      (3)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light source
shall not be visible from the public right-of-way or from neighboring
residences and shall be in compliance with §
160.031 of this chapter;
      (4)   Sales area is grassed or surfaced to control dust; and
      (5)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (C)   Custom manufacturing, restricted production and repair limited to the
following: art, needlework, jewelry from precious metals, watches, dentures,
optical lenses; provided that:
      (1)   The use is accessory as defined by §
160.012 of this chapter to the principal use of the property;
      (2)   Does not conflict with the character of development intended for
this zoning district; and
      (3)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (D)   Commercial planned unit development as regulated by §§
160.315 through
160.319 of this chapter;
   (E)   Wireless telecommunications towers and antennas subject to the
provisions established in §§
160.395 through
160.401 of this chapter;
   (F)   Day care center, group nursery; provided that:
      (1)   No overnight facilities are provided for the children served.
Children are delivered and removed daily;
      (2)   The front yard depth shall be a minimum of 35 feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot area shall be no less than one acre, or as provided in
§
160.056(B)(2)(c) of this chapter;
      (4)   Not less than 40 square feet of outside play space per child be
provided and that the space be suitably fenced and/or screened in accordance
with conditions as specified by the City Council;
      (5)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided in compliance
with §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter;
      (6)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided in
compliance with §§
160.355 through
160.361 of this chapter;
      (7)   The site and related parking and service entrances shall be served
by an arterial or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the
traffic which will be generated;
      (8)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
      (9)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met;
      (10)   The distance between any outdoor play yard for a day care center
or group nursery and the Highway 10 right-of-way line shall be a minimum of 200
feet, except as provided in §
160.376(A)(3) of this chapter; and
      (11)   No day care center or group nursery shall be permitted where the
distance from the property line for the day care center or group nursery to a
premises requiring a liquor license, as provided in §§
110.015 through
110.030 of this code of ordinances, or a license for an adult establishment, as
provided in
Ch. 116 of this code of ordinances, is 500 feet or less; except that, the 500-
foot requirement shall not apply to any liquor establishment receiving at least
60% of its annual gross sales revenue from the sale of food.
   (G)   Drive-thru business; provided that the provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered satisfactorily met.
(Prior Code, § 1115.04) (Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997; Ord. 595, passed 04-14-
1997; Ord. 733, passed 05-10-2004; Ord. 896, passed 01-26-2015; Ord. 977,
passed 07-26-2021)
§ 160.219 INTERIM USES.
   The following are interim uses in a B-4 District requiring an interim use
permit. An interim use permit must be obtained in accordance with procedures
identical in form and substance to the conditional use permit procedures found
in §
160.452 of this chapter. Interim use permits may be approved for a determined
or undetermined period of time at the sole discretion of the City Council: all
permitted interim uses as allowed in a B-3 District.
(Prior Code, § 1115.05) (Ord. 735, passed 05-10-2004)
I-1, INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 160.230 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Industrial District is to provide for the establishment
of warehousing and industrial development and use.
(Prior Code, § 1116.01)
§ 160.231 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in an I-1 District:
   (A)   Adult establishments as defined and regulated in
Ch. 116 of this code of ordinances;
   (B)   Blacksmith, welding or other metal shop;
   (C)   Building materials sales yards, retail lumber yard, contractors
equipment sales and rentals, storage and sale of food, and fuel not for resale;
   (D)   Essential services;
   (E)   Flammable liquids: above ground storage not to exceed a total of 800
gallons; underground bulk storage not to exceed 25,000 gallons if located not
less than 50 feet from a residential district;
   (F)   Foundry casting lightweight non-ferrous metals or electric foundry not
causing noxious fumes or odors;
   (G)   Golf course;
   (H)   Governmental and public utility building and structures;
   (I)   Greenhouses and nurseries;
   (J)   Laboratories, experimental, film and/or testing;
   (K)   Laundries, bag, carpet and rug cleaning;
   (L)   Manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, instruments and
devices;
   (M)   Manufacturing, compounding, assembly or treatment of articles or
merchandise from previously prepared materials, such as bond cloth, cork,
fiber, leather, paper, plastic, metals, stones, tobacco, wax, yarns and wools;
   (N)   Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and food products and the rendering or refining of
fats and oils;
   (O)   Manufacture of musical instruments, novelties and molded rubber
products;
   (P)   Manufacture of pottery or other similar ceramic products, only by
electricity or natural gas;
   (Q)   Manufacture and repair of electrical signs, advertising structures and
light sheet metal products, including heating and ventilating equipment;
   (R)   Medical supplies;
   (S)   Motorized vehicle or recreational equipment sales and service and
rental;
   (T)   Newspaper and general printings;
   (U)   Office;
   (V)   Pharmacies, stand alone, not part of a retail store;
   (W)   Rental stores;
   (X)   Rugs, carpet, tile, paint or wallpaper stores;
   (Y)   Warehouses;
   (Z)    Wholesale and retail showrooms and offices; provided, that at least
50% of the principal building is devoted to storage or warehousing of
merchandise;
   (AA)   Microbrewery and/or microdistillery, with or without a taproom or
cocktail room;
   (BB)   Cannabis wholesaling business;
   (CC)   Cannabis transportation business; and
   (DD)   Cannabis testing business.
(Prior Code, § 1116.02) (Ord. 574, passed 05-13-1996; Ord. 721, passed 10-13-
2003; Ord. 830, passed 09-03-2009; Ord. 895, passed 01-26-2015; Ord. 926,
passed 08-22-2016; Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 160.232 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in an I-1 District:
   (A)   Buildings and structures for a use accessory to the principal use;
   (B)   Offices accessory to the principal use;
   (C)   Off-street parking as regulated by §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter;
   (D)   Off-street loading as regulated by §§
160.355 through
160.361 of this chapter; and
   (E)   Signs as regulated by
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1116.03)
§ 160.233 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in an I-1 District (requiring a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
160.450 through
160.452 of this chapter):
   (A)   Open and outdoor storage as an accessory use;
   (B)   Open or outdoor service, sale and rental as a principal or an
accessory use and including sales in or from motorized vehicles, trailers or
wagons; provided that:
      (1)   Accessory outside service, sales and equipment rental connected
with a principal use is limited to 30% of the gross floor area of the principal
use; and
      (2)   Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of neighboring
residential uses or an abutting residential district in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter.
   (C)   Motor freight terminals;
   (D)   Industrial planned unit development as regulated by §§
160.300 through
160.302 of this chapter;
   (E)   Wind energy conversion systems as regulated by §§
160.435 through
160.439 of this chapter;
   (F)   Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
flammable liquids;
   (G)   Automobile assembly and/or major repair;
   (H)   Creamery, bottling plant, ice cream manufacture, ice manufacture, cold
storage and/or milk distribution station;
   (I)   Storage of flammable liquids over 800 gallons above ground;
   (J)   Wireless telecommunications towers and antennas subject to the
provisions established in §§
160.395 through
160.401 of this chapter; and
   (K)   Day care center, group nursery; provided that:
      (1)   No overnight facilities are provided for the children served.
Children are delivered and removed daily;
      (2)   The front yard depth shall be a minimum of 35 feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot area shall be no less than one acre, or as provided in
§
160.056(B)(2)(c) of this chapter;
      (4)   Not less than 40 square feet of outside play space per child be
provided and that such space be suitably fenced and/or screened in accordance
with conditions as specified by the City Council;
      (5)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided in compliance
with §§
160.330 through
160.344 of this chapter;
      (6)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided in
compliance with §§
160.355 through
160.361 of this chapter;
      (7)   The site and related parking and service entrances shall be served
by an arterial or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the
traffic which will be generated;
      (8)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances;
      (9)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met;
      (10)   The distance between any outdoor play yard for a day care center
or group nursery and the Highway 10 right-of-way line shall be a minimum of 200
feet, except as provided in §
160.376(A)(3) of this chapter; and
      (11)    No day care center or group nursery shall be permitted where the
distance from the property line for the day care center or group nursery to a
premises requiring a liquor license, as provided in §§
110.015 through
110.030 of this code of ordinances, or a license for an adult establishment, as
provided in
Ch. 116 of this code of ordinances, is 500 feet or less; except that, the 500-
foot requirement shall not apply to any liquor establishment receiving at least
60% of its annual gross sales revenue from the sale of food;
   (L)   Cannabis manufacturing business; provided that the business maintains
compliance with odor management requirements as established in the Minnesota
Statutes, Minnesota Rules, and City Code; and
   (M)   Cannabis cultivation business; provided that:
      (1)   Cultivation operations must be completely contained within a
structure; and
      (2)   The cannabis cultivation businesses must comply with odor
management requirements as established in the Minnesota Statutes, Minnesota
Rules, and City Code.
(Prior Code, § 1116.04) (Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997; Ord. 595, passed 04-14-
1997; Ord. 830, passed 09-03-2009; Ord. 883, passed 09-09-2013; Ord. 895,
passed 01-26-2015; Ord. 1025, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 160.234 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   All permitted, accessory or conditional uses in an I-1 District shall comply
with the following:
   (A)   Code §§
160.030,
160.031,
160.032 and
160.033 of this chapter regarding screening, glare, smoke, dust, odors and
noise are adhered to;
   (B)   Traffic generated would be compatible and within the operating limits
of the primary streets used for access;
   (C)   The area is fenced and screened from view of neighboring residential
uses, or if abutting a residential district, in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
   (D)   Storage is screened from view from the public right-of-way in
compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter;
   (E)   Storage and sales areas are grassed or surfaced to control dust;
   (F)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light source
shall not be visible from the public right-of-way or from neighboring
residences and shall be in compliance with §
160.031 of this chapter;
   (G)   The provisions of §
160.450(E) of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met; and
   (H)   Permits or approvals required from other public agencies (such as,
state’s Pollution Control Agency, Department of Natural Resources, Metropolitan
Waste Control Commission and Rice Creek Watershed District) be obtained prior
to final approval of use.
(Prior Code, § 1116.05)
§ 160.235 INTERIM USES.
   The following are interim uses in an I-1 District requiring an interim use
permit. An interim use permit must be obtained in accordance with procedures
identical in form and substance to the conditional use permit procedures found
in §
160.452 of this chapter. Interim use permits may be approved for a determined
or undetermined period of time at the sole discretion of the City Council: all
permitted interim uses as allowed in a B-4 District.
(Prior Code, § 1116.06) (Ord. 735, passed 05-10-2004)
CRP, CONSERVANCY, RECREATION AND PRESERVATION DISTRICT
§ 160.250 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the CRP District is to permit the development of major
recreational use facilities on lands uniquely situated in the city by virtue of
such factors as access, surrounding uses and adaptability. The lands may be
wholly or partially unsuitable for most residential, commercial or industrial
development because of location, surrounding uses, water tables, drainage and
soil conditions, the lack of adequate public utilities because of availability
or cost considerations and where such developments would adversely impact the
floodplains, wetlands and drainageways of the area. The recreational use
development shall be designed to conserve, preserve and enhance the
environment, important natural features and resources, forests and woodlands
and control density, particularly in areas of the city affected by major
highways, airports and other regional areas.
(Prior Code, § 1117.01)
§ 160.251 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The developer shall submit a plan for development to the City
Administrator together with the required fees. The City Administrator shall
forward the plans to the Planning and Parks and Recreation Commissions, who
shall submit their comments and recommendations to the City Council within 60
days of receipt. The City Council, within 90 days of submission of the plan to
the Commissions, may approve, disapprove or resubmit the proposal to the
Commissions for further consideration.
   (B)   The City Council may require public hearings before it takes action.
(Prior Code, § 1117.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 160.252 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   The developer shall submit, in sufficient copies, to the City Administrator,
such exhibits, analyses and plans, as applicable, and as required by §
160.319(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1117.03) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 160.253 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following shall be considered an accessory use in the CRP District: an
accessory building or cabinet-like structure located adjacent to, or in the
immediate vicinity of, a commercial wireless telecommunication service tower
and/or antenna, used for the sole purpose of housing related service equipment
customarily incidental to the receiving or transmitting of wireless broadcasts,
cellular telephone calls, voice messaging and paging services; subject to the
design, landscaping and screening standards established in §
160.399 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1117.04) (Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997)
§ 160.254 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following shall be considered a conditional use in the CRP District
(requiring a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and
regulated by §§
160.450 through
160.452 of this chapter): wireless telecommunications towers and antennas
subject to the provisions established in §§
160.395 through
160.401 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1117.05) (Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997)
PS, PAWNSHOP OVERLAY DISTRICTS
§ 160.265 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Pawnshop Overlay District is to allow the location of a
pawnshop as defined by §
160.012 of this chapter as an additional permitted use in defined areas of
certain other zoning districts within the city.
(Prior Code, § 1118.01) (Ord. 720, passed 10-13-2003; Ord. 711, passed 11-10-
2003)
§ 160.266 PERMITTED USES.
   In addition to other uses permitted in the underlying zoning district, a
pawnshop as defined in §
160.012 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1118.02) (Ord. 720, passed 10-13-2003; Ord. 711, passed 11-10-
2003)
§ 160.267 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   A pawnshop must comply with all lot standards and other requirements
applicable to other permitted uses in the underlying zoning district; provided,
however, that, a building containing a pawnshop may not be located within 1,000
feet of another building containing a pawnshop. In addition, a pawnshop must be
licensed and operate in compliance with the requirements provided in
Ch. 115 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1118.03) (Ord. 720, passed 10-13-2003; Ord. 711, passed 11-10-
2003)
§ 160.268 DISTRICT AREA.
   The following area is hereby established as being within the Pawnshop
Overlay District: Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 1, North Star Industrial Park 2nd
Addition.
(Prior Code, § 1118.04) (Ord. 720, passed 10-13-2003; Ord. 711, passed 11-10-
2003)
COUNTY ROAD 10 CORRIDOR
OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 160.280 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this district is to provide standards of development
for land lying on either side of the major transportation corridor along County
Road 10. The County Road 10 Corridor District is the primary gateway through
the city. The aesthetic impacts from new developments and redevelopments must
be evaluated to help ensure the long-term viability and success of the
district. Accomplishing the purpose of the County Road 10 Corridor District
requires particular concern for the site layout, building materials, site
features and other related design elements.
   (B)   (1)   To that end, new development and redevelopment shall conform to
the standards in this and related zoning requirements.
      (2)   In reviewing and approving land use applications, the City Council
will make the final determination in the compatibility and consistency with all
provisions in this and related sections of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1129.01)
§ 160.281 PERMITTED USES.
   The Overlay District provisions apply to any base zoning district set forth
in this chapter that exists within the defined overlay area.
(Prior Code, § 1129.02)
§ 160.282 DISTRICT AREA DEFINED.
   The following area is hereby established as being within the County Road 10
Corridor Overlay District:
   (A)   All parcels having frontage on County Road 10; and
   (B)   All parcels that are within 200 feet of the County Road 10 right-of-
way.
(Prior Code, § 1129.03)
§ 160.283 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   Any deviation from the requirements in this chapter shall comply with the
procedures and criteria provided in §§
160.465 through
160.470 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1129.04)
§ 160.284 STANDARDS.
   For development of properties within the County Road 10 Overlay District,
the following standards will be applied where these standards supersede
requirements set forth in the B-1 (Neighborhood Business), B-2 (Limited
Business), B-3 (Highway Business), B-4 (Regional Business). PUD (Planned Unit
Development), R-3 (Medium Density Residential) and R-4 (High Density
Residential) zoning districts. All other standards and requirements of the
above-mentioned zoning districts shall continue to apply.
   (A)   Construction materials.
      (1)   At least 50% of all exterior wall finishes on any building will be
comprised of a combination of at least two of the following materials:
         (a)   Brick;
         (b)   Natural stone or cultured stone;
         (c)   Glass;
         (d)   Masonry stucco; and
         (e)   Other comparable or superior material as approved by the city.
      (2)   The remaining 50% of all exterior wall finishes must be comprised
of any combination of decorative or rock face concrete block, concrete panels,
metal or wood. All building materials subject to approval of the city.
      (3)   Buildings may be constructed of primarily one of the materials
listed in division (A)(1) above, if the design exceeds the intent of the
ordinance and is approved by the city.
      (4)   Non-decorative exposed concrete block buildings are prohibited, as
are pre-engineered metal buildings, corrugated metal-sided buildings and wood
sided buildings unless such metal buildings and wood sided buildings are
enhanced on all elevations by the application of brick, decorative masonry or
decorative stucco surfaces in combination with decorative fascia overhangs and
trim.
   (B)   Architectural design. Each building design will be reviewed for at
least the following considerations:
      (1)   Appropriate location of structures on the site considering the
relationship to other site amenities, restrictions, adjacent land usage and the
like;
      (2)   General layout, roof treatments, proportion and quality of
exterior;
      (3)   In the design of buildings or clusters of buildings, developers
must orient projects so that the side(s) facing County Road 10 from the front
of the project. Where front toward County Road 10 is not feasible due to the
location of access roads and other site constraints, the project must be
oriented and designed in such a manner so as to convey a pleasing appearance
from County Road 10;
      (4)   Screening of mechanical equipment, tanks, loading docks, refuse
handling, ancillary equipment and the like, whether on the roof or on the site;
      (5)   Drainage pipes on exterior building walls facing a street and/or
County Road 10 must be integral to the design and non-apparent; and
      (6)   Exceptions to the architectural design standards set forth in this
section may be granted by the City Administrator or designee, for structures of
comparable design and building materials.
   (C)   Building and parking setback requirements. Buildings and parking lots
should have no more than a five-foot setback from County Road 10. The required
setbacks for the other sides of the property will be determined by the city,
based on the specific project and land usage.
   (D)   Off-street parking. The city will use the off-street parking
requirements in §
160.342 of this chapter as a guideline, and base the final determination of
required spaces on the specific project and land usage.
   (E)   Landscaping.
      (1)   Landscaping requirements shall be in accordance with §§
160.415 through
160.421 of this chapter.
      (2)   A minimum of 15% of the total area of each lot shall be devoted to
landscaped open space.
      (3)   All open areas of any lot not used for parking, driveways or
storage shall be landscaped with trees, shrubs, berms and planted ground cover.
   (F)   Signs. In accordance with
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances.
   (G)   Outdoor storage and dumpster screening.
      (1)   No outdoor storage shall be permitted unless such storage is
visually screened from view from County Road 10 and all adjoining residential
properties, with suitable solid fence constructed of masonry or wood at least
six feet in height. Screening shall be well maintained.
      (2)   No dumpsters may be located on the sides of buildings fronting
County Road 10, except if, in the opinion of the city, no other suitable
location is reasonably available for such purpose and provided the dumpster
area is developed in a manner so as to minimize its appearance from County Road
10.
      (3)   All dumpsters shall be entirely screened by a masonry or solid
wooden fence, with gate or a comparable screening, at least six feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 1129.05)
§ 160.285 EXISTING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Uses and structures in this district that were conforming prior to the
effective date of this chapter will remain conforming upon adoption of this
chapter: all subsequent additions, exterior alteration and accessory buildings
constructed after the erection of an original building after the date of
adoption of this chapter, shall:
   (A)   Be constructed of materials comparable to those used in the original
construction;
   (B)   Be designed in a manner conforming to the original structure’s
architectural design and appearance; and
   (C)   Meet all other standards set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1129.06) (Ord. 888, passed 07-28-2014)
PUD, PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 160.300 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the PUD, Planned Unit Development District is to provide for
the integration and coordination of land parcels as well as the combination of
varying types of residential, commercial and industrial uses.
(Prior Code, § 1119.01)
§ 160.301 PERMITTED USES.
   All permitted accessory or conditional uses contained in §§
160.085 through
160.088 and
160.265 through
160.268 of this chapter shall be treated as permitted uses to eliminate the
overlapping procedural requirements of individual conditional use provisions.
(Prior Code, § 1119.02)
§ 160.302 SPECIAL PROCEDURES.
   The establishment of a PUD, Planned Unit Development District shall be
subject to the amendment requirements as outlined in §§
160.450 through
160.452 of this chapter plus the procedures and conditions imposed by §§
160.315 through
160.319 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1119.03)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 160.315 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the grouping of land
parcels for development as an integrated, coordinated unit as opposed to
traditional parcel by parcel, piecemeal, sporadic and unplanned approach to
development. This subchapter is intended to introduce flexibility of site
design and architecture for the conservation of land and open space through
clustering of buildings and activities through conditional use provisions. It
is further intended that planned unit developments are to be characterized by
central management, integrated planning and architecture, joint or common use
of parking, maintenance of open space and other similar facilities and a
harmonious selection and efficient distribution of uses.
   (B)   Specifically, it is intended to encourage:
      (1)   Innovations in residential development to the end that the growing
demands for housing of all economic levels may be met by greater variety in
tenure, type, design and siting of dwellings and by the conservation and more
efficient use of land in the developments;
      (2)   Higher standards of site and building design through the use of
trained and experienced land planners, architects and landscape architects;
      (3)   More convenience in location of accessory commercial and service
area;
      (4)   The preservation and enhancement of desirable site characteristics,
such as natural topography and geologic features and the prevention of soil
erosion;
      (5)   A creative use of land and related physical development which
allows a phased and orderly transition of land from rural to urban uses;
      (6)   An efficient use of land resulting in smaller networks of utilities
and streets, thereby lowering housing costs and public investments;
      (7)   A development pattern in harmony with the objectives of the city’s
Comprehensive Plan;
      (8)   A more desirable environment than would be possible through the
strict application of zoning and subdivision regulations of the city;
      (9)   To give the landowner and developer reasonable assurance of
ultimate approval before expending complete design monies while providing city
officials with assurances that the project will retain the character envisioned
at the time of concurrence; and
      (10)   To allow variation from the provisions of this chapter, including
setbacks, height, lot area, width and depth, yards and the like.
(Prior Code, § 1120.01)
§ 160.316 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Ownership. An application for PUD approval must be filed by the
landowner or jointly by all landowners of the property included in a project.
The application and all submissions must be directed to the development of the
property as a unified whole. In the case of multiple ownership, the approval of
the final plat shall be binding on all owners.
   (B)   Comprehensive plan consistency. The proposed PUD shall be consistent
with the adopted City Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   Common open space. Common open space at least sufficient to meet the
minimum requirements established in this chapter and such complementary
structures and improvements as are necessary and appropriate for the benefit
and enjoyment of the residents of the PUD shall be provided within the area of
the PUD.
   (D)   Operating and maintenance requirements for PUD common open space/
facilities. Whenever common open space or service facilities are provided
within the PUD, the PUD plan shall contain provisions to assure the continued
operation and maintenance of such open space and service facilities to a
predetermined reasonable standard. Common open space and service facilities
within a PUD may be placed under the ownership of one or more of the following
as approved by the Council:
      (1)   Landlord control, where only use by tenants is anticipated;
      (2)   Property owners’ association; provided, all of the following
conditions are met.
         (a)   Prior to the use, occupancy, sale or the execution of contracts
for sale of an individual building unit, parcel, tract, townhouse, apartment or
common area, a declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions or an
equivalent document and a set of floor plans, such as specified by M.S. Ch. 515
and 515A, as they may be amended from time to time, shall be filed with the
City Administrator, the filing to be made prior to the filings of the
declaration of documents or floor plans with the recording officers of the
county.
         (b)   The declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions or
equivalent document shall specify that deeds, leases or documents of conveyance
affecting buildings, units, parcels, tracts, townhouses or apartments shall
subject the properties to the terms of the declaration.
         (c)   The declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions shall
provide that an owners’ association or corporation shall be formed and that all
owners shall be members of the association or corporation which shall maintain
all properties and common areas in good repair and which shall assess
individual property owners proportionate shares of joint or common costs. This
declaration shall be subject to the review and approval of the City Attorney.
The intent of this requirement is to protect the property values of the
individual owner through establishing effective private control.
         (d)   The declaration shall, additionally, amongst other things,
provide that in the event the association or corporation fails to maintain
properties in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the city
or fails to pay taxes or assessments on properties as they become due and in
the event the city incurs any expenses not immediately reimbursed by the
association or corporation, then the city shall have the right to assess each
property its pro rata share of the expenses. The assessments, together with
interest thereon and costs of collection, shall be a lien on each property
against which the assessment is made.
         (e)   Membership must be mandatory for each owner and any successive
buyer.
         (f)   The open space restrictions must be permanent and not for a
given period of years.
         (g)   The association must be responsible for liability insurance,
local taxes and the maintenance of the open space facilities to be deeded to
it.
         (h)   Property owners must pay their pro rata share of the cost of the
association by means of an assessment to be levied by the association which
meets the requirements for becoming a lien on the property in accordance with
state statutes.
         (i)   The association must be able to adjust the assessment to meet
changed needs.
         (j)   The bylaws and rules of the association and all covenants and
restrictions to be recorded must be approved by the Council prior to the
approval of the final PUD plan.
   (E)   Staging of common open space. When a PUD provides for common open
space, the total area of common open space or land escrow security in any stage
of development shall, at a minimum, bear the same relationship to the total
open space to be provided in the entire PUD as the stages or units completed or
under development bear to the entire PUD.
   (F)   Density. The exact density allowable shall be determined by standards
agreed upon between the applicant and the city.
   (G)   Utilities. In any PUD, all utilities, including telephone,
electricity, gas and telecable, shall be installed underground.
   (H)   Utility connections.
      (1)   Water connections. Where more than one property is served from the
same service line, a shut-off valve must be located in such a way that each
unit’s service may be shut off by the city, in addition to the normally
supplied shut off at the street.
      (2)   Sewer connections. Where more than one unit is served by a sanitary
sewer lateral, the requirements of the Building Code shall apply for lengths
between 90 feet and 300 feet. If the length exceeds 300 feet, provision must be
made for a manhole to allow adequate cleaning and maintenance of the lateral.
All maintenance and cleaning shall be the responsibility of the property
owners’ association or owner.
   (I)   Roadways.
      (1)   Private roadways within the project shall have an improved surface
of 25 feet or more in width and shall be so designed as to permit fire trucks
to provide protection to each building. Parking shall be prohibited within this
25-foot roadway.
      (2)   No portion of the required private road system may be used in
calculating required off-street parking space.
   (J)   Landscaping. In any PUD, landscaping shall be provided according to a
plan approved by the City Council, which shall include a detailed planting list
with sizes and species indicated as part of the final plat. In assessing the
landscaping plan, the City Council shall consider the natural features of the
particular site, the architectural characteristics of the proposed structures
and the overall scheme of the PUD plan.
   (K)   Public services. The proposed project shall be served by the city
water and sewer system, and fire hydrants shall be installed at such locations
as required by the Fire Chief to provide fire protection.
   (L)   Building height. Height limitations shall be the same as imposed in
the respective districts, unless the City Council determines additional height
or stories would serve a better purpose consistent with the stated intent of
this chapter.
   (M)   Refuse. Provision for trash pick-up shall be made according to a plan
approved by the Planning Commission and City Council.
   (N)   Site improvement agreement. Prior to the issuance of a building permit
as part of the planned unit development, the permit applicant, builder or
developer shall execute and deliver to the City Council a site improvement
agreement providing for the installation within one year of all of the off-site
and on-site improvements as approved by the City Council, secured by a cash
escrow or surety bond in an amount and with surety and conditions satisfactory
to the city, to insure the city that the improvements will be actually
constructed and installed according to specifications and plans approved by the
city as expressed in such agreement. The amount of the bond shall be one and
one-half times the estimated cost of the improvements as determined by the
Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 1120.02) (Ord. 755, passed 02-14-2005; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010)
§ 160.317 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residential planned unit development.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the intent of this division (A) to establish special
requirements for the granting of a conditional use permit for residential PUD
projects which are in compliance with the permitted and conditional uses
allowed in a specific district, including dwellings, offices and institutional
uses of one or more buildings in relation to an overall design and integrated
physical plan and in accordance with the provisions and procedures as
prescribed in this chapter.
      (2)   Yards.
            (a)   The front, side and rear yard restrictions at the periphery
of the planned unit development site, at a minimum, shall be the same as
imposed in the respective districts.
            (b)   No building shall be nearer than its building height to the
rear or side property line when such line abuts an R-1 or R-2 Use District.
            (c)   No building shall be located less than 20 feet from the back
of the curb line along those roadways which are part of the internal street
pattern.
            (d)   No building within the project shall be nearer to another
building than one-half the sum of the building heights of the two buildings.
      (3)   Density bonus. As a consequence of a planned unit development’s
planned and integrated character, the number of dwelling units allowed within
the respective zoning district may be increased by 10%. The building, parking
and similar requirements for these extra units shall be observed in compliance
with this chapter.
      (4)   Townhouses and condominiums.
            (a)   Minimum unit lot frontage for townhouses shall be not less
than 20 feet.
            (b)   Dwelling unit and accessory use requirements are in
compliance with the district provisions in which the development is planned.
            (c)   A townhouse shall have not more than two stories.
            (d)   No single townhouse shall contain more than eight dwelling
units.
            (e)   No townhouse shall have a single exterior wall longer than 80
feet, nor an offset between walls of more than ten feet.
            (f)   Townhouse projects shall have a usable open space area equal
to 400 square feet per dwelling.
            (g)   Condominium buildings containing eight units or less and not
more than two stories may entail zero lot line construction; provided that, the
association covenant provides for it accordingly.
      (5)   Senior housing.
            (a)   The building must have at least 60% of its units designated
for assisted living or memory or Alzheimer’s care for the city to consider the
project or building as a planned unit development.
            (b)   The tract of land for which a planned unit development,
senior housing project is proposed and permit requested shall contain not less
than two acres of land.
            (c)   The front, side and rear yard building setbacks of the
planned unit development site, at a minimum, shall be:
               1.   Front: 30 feet;
               2.   Side: 20 feet; and
               3.   Rear: 30 feet, or 50 feet if abutting residential.
            (d)   The parking recommendations are as follows, unless the City
Council determines more or less parking stalls would serve a better purpose:
Parking spaces recommended are:
               1.    Independent living: one space per unit with half of the
spaces enclosed;
               2.    Assisted living: one-half spaces per unit;
               3.    Nursing homes and memory care: one space for every four
beds; and
               4.    Facility staff: one space for every employee on the
largest shift.
            (e)   The permanent residents residing in independent living units
shall be limited to persons who are 55 years of age or over except that one
other family member or designated caregiver may reside with the permanent
senior resident in accordance with any pertinent lease provision.
            (f)   The city may require the developer or builder of senior
housing to install screening and buffering, such as landscaping, berming or
fencing (or a combination of these methods), to help protect neighboring
properties.
   (B)   Commercial or industrial planned unit development.
      (1)   Purpose. The intent of this division (B) is to establish special
requirements for the granting of a conditional use permit to allow commercial
or industrial PUD projects which are in compliance with the permitted and
conditional uses allowed in a specific district in one or more buildings in
relation to an overall design and an integrated physical plan.
      (2)   Yard. No building shall be nearer than 50 feet to the side or rear
property line when such line abuts an R-1, R-2 or R-3 Use District.
      (3)   Landscaping, screening and surfacing.
            (a)   The entire site, other than that taken up by structures or
landscaping, shall be surfaced with a material to control dust, drainage and
erosion.
            (b)   A drainage system conforming to the Comprehensive Storm
Drainage Plan and subject to approval of the Director of Public Works/Parks and
Recreation shall be installed.
            (c)   Development abutting an R-1, R-2 or R-3 District shall be
screened and landscaped in compliance with §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter.
      (4)   Wind energy conversion systems. Wind energy conversion systems are
allowed as regulated by §§
160.435 through
160.438 of this chapter.
   (C)   Mixed use planned unit development.
      (1)   Purpose. The intent of this division (C) is to establish special
requirements for the granting of a zoning district amendment to allow mixed use
PUD projects which are in compliance with the permitted and conditional uses
allowed within the PUD District and in accordance with the provisions and
procedures as prescribed in this division (C).
      (2)   Yards. Minimum setbacks shall be the same as imposed in the
respective PUD use districts.
      (3)   Landscaping, screening and surfacing. All site treatment shall be
consistent with the requirements of §
160.030(A) through (E) of this chapter.
      (4)   Staging of residential development. Whenever any mixed PUD is to be
developed in stages, the proportion of residential development completed at any
stage, when averaged with all previously completed stages, shall not exceed the
proportion of residential development planned for the entire mixed PUD.
(Prior Code, § 1120.03) (Ord. 814, passed 10-01-2008; Ord. 883, passed 09-09-
2013; Ord. 913, passed 03-28-2016; Ord. 1040, passed 4-14-2025)
§ 160.318 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application conference. Upon filing of an application for PUD, the
applicant of the proposed PUD shall arrange for and attend a conference with
the city staff. At such conference, the applicant shall be prepared to
generally describe applicant’s proposal for a PUD. The primary purpose of the
conference shall be to provide the applicant with an opportunity to gather
information and obtain guidance as to the general suitability of and conformity
to the provisions of this chapter before incurring substantial expense in the
preparation of plans, surveys and other data.
   (B)   General concept plan.
      (1)   Purpose. The general concept plan provides an opportunity for the
applicant to submit a plan to the city showing applicant’s basic intent and the
general nature of the entire development without incurring substantial cost.
This concept plan serves as the basis for the public hearing so that the
proposal may be publicly considered at an early stage. The following elements
of the proposed general concept plan represent the immediately significant
elements which the city shall review and for which a decision shall be
rendered:
         (a)   Overall maximum PUD density range;
         (b)   General location of major streets and pedestrianways;
         (c)   General location and extent of public and common open space;
         (d)   General location of residential and non-residential land uses
with approximate type and intensities of development;
         (e)   Staging and time schedule of development; and
         (f)   Other special criteria for development.
      (2)   Process.
         (a)   Developer attends application conference;
         (b)   File application for a conditional use permit or rezoning
concurrently with the submission of the general concept plan (at least 21 days
prior to Planning Commission meeting) consisting of the information and
submissions required under §
160.319(A) of this chapter, general concept stage;
         (c)   City staff reviews application, prepares report and
recommendations;
         (d)   Planning Commission receives application and report of city
staff;
         (e)   Planning Commission makes a recommendation to the City Council
on the general concept plan;
         (f)   City Council holds a public hearing; and
         (g)   City Council reviews all recommendations and approves/denies
application(s).
      (3)   Optional submission of development stage plan. In cases of single
stage PUDs or where the applicant wishes to begin the first stage of a multiple
stage PUD immediately, applicant may, at applicant’s option, submit development
stage plans for the proposed PUD simultaneously with the submission of the
general concept plan. In such case, the applicant shall comply with all the
provisions of this chapter applicable to submission of the development stage
plan.
      (4)   Limitation of general concept plan approval. Unless a development
stage plan has been filed within nine months from the date City Council grants
general concept plan approval, or in any case where applicant fails to file
development stage and final plans and to proceed with development in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter and of an approved general concept plan,
the approval may be revoked by City Council action. The City Council, at its
discretion, may extend the filing deadline for a development stage plan when,
for good cause shown, the extension is necessary.
   (C)   Development stage.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the development stage plan is to provide a
specific and particular plan upon which the Planning Commission will base its
recommendation to the City Council and with which substantial compliance is
necessary for the preparation of the final plan.
      (2)   Submission of development stage. Upon approval of the general
concept plan, the applicant shall file with the City Administrator a
development stage plan consisting of the information and submissions required
under §
160.319(B) of this chapter for the entire PUD or for one or more stages thereof
in accordance with a staging plan approved as part of the general concept plan.
The development stage plan shall refine, implement and be in substantial
conformity with the approved general concept plan.
      (3)   Review and action by city staff and Planning Commission. Upon a
receipt of a completed development stage plan, the City Administrator shall
refer the plan to the appropriate city staff, Planning Commission and other
review agencies.
      (4)   Process.
         (a)   Developer makes application for subdivision (first phase of PUD)
at least 21 days prior to Planning Commission meeting.
         (b)   Within 60 days of the submission, or such further time as may be
agreed to by the applicant, the Planning Commission shall review the
development stage and submit a written report and recommendations to the City
Council. The report shall contain the findings and recommendations of the
Planning Commission with respect to the conformity of the development stage
plan to the approved general concept plan, with respect to the merit or lack of
merit of any departure of the development stage plan from substantial
conformity with the concept plan, and with respect to the compliance of the
development stage plan with the provisions of this chapter and all other
applicable federal, state and local codes and ordinances.
         (c)   Within 30 days of receipt of the report and recommendations of
the Planning Commission, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the
plans. Thereafter, the City Council may grant approval, resubmit the plan to
the Planning Commission for further consideration or deny approval of the plan.
         (d)   Upon City Council approval, the City Attorney shall draw up a
PUD agreement which stipulates the specific terms and conditions established
and approved by the City Council and accepted by the applicant. This agreement
shall be signed by the Mayor, the City Administrator and the applicant.
         (e)   Where the development stage plan is denied approval, City
Council action shall be by resolution setting forth the reasons for its action.
A certified copy of the document evidencing City Council action shall be
delivered to the applicant.
      (5)   Limitation on detailed plan approval. Unless a final plan covering
the area designated in the first stage of the development stage plan has been
filed within six months from the date City Council grants development stage
plan approval or in any case where the applicant fails to file final plans and
to proceed with development in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
and/or an approved development stage plan, the approval shall expire. The City
Council may, at its discretion, extend for not more than one additional period
of six months the filing deadline for any final plan when, for good cause
shown, the extension is necessary. In any case, where development plan approval
expires, the City Council shall forthwith adopt a resolution repealing the
general concept plan approval and the development stage plan approval for that
portion of the PUD that has not received final plan approval and re-
establishing the zoning and other ordinance provisions that would otherwise be
applicable.
      (6)   Review and evaluation criteria. The evaluation of the proposed
development stage plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
criteria.
         (a)   Adequate property control is provided to protect the individual
owner’s rights and property values and the public responsibility for own
maintenance and upkeep;
         (b)   The interior circulation plan, plus access from and onto public
rights of way does not create congestion or dangers and is adequate for the
safety of the project residents and the general public;
         (c)   A sufficient amount of usable open space is provided;
         (d)   The arrangement of buildings, structures and accessory uses does
not unreasonably disturb the privacy or property values of the surrounding
residential uses;
         (e)   The architectural design of the project is compatible with the
surrounding area;
         (f)   The drainage and utility system plans are submitted to and
subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation;
         (g)   The development schedule insures a logical development of the
site which will protect the public interest and conserve land;
         (h)   The development is in compliance with the requirements of Ch.
154,
155,
156,
158 and
159 of this code of ordinances; and
         (i)   Dwelling unit and accessory use requirements are in compliance
with the district provisions in which the development is planned.
   (D)   Final plan.
      (1)   Purpose. The final plan is to serve as a complete, thorough and
permanent public record of the PUD and the manner in which it is to be
developed. It shall incorporate all prior approved plans and all approved
modifications thereof resulting from the PUD process. It shall serve in
conjunction with other city ordinances as the land use regulation applicable to
the PUD.
      (2)   Submission of the final plan. Upon approval of the development
stage plan, the applicant shall file with the City Administrator a final plan
consisting of the information and submissions required by §
160.319(C) of this chapter, final plan stage, for the entire PUD or for one or
more stages. The final plan is intended only to add detail to and to put in
final form the information contained in the general concept plan and the
development stage plan and shall conform to the development stage plan in all
respects.
      (3)   Review of final plan. The Director of Public Works/Parks and
Recreation shall review the final plans to assure their compliance with the
general concept and development stage plans and shall require appropriate
revisions by the applicant wherever they do not so comply. The Director of
Public Works/Parks and Recreation shall report the findings to the City
Administrator who shall notify the applicant, in writing, of approval of the
final plan.
      (4)   Recording of final plan. Within ten days of the City
Administrator’s notice of approval, the applicant shall cause the final plan,
or such portions thereof as are appropriate, to be recorded with the county’s
Register of Deeds or Register of Titles.
      (5)   Building and other permits. Upon receiving notice from the City
Administrator that the approved final plan has been recorded and upon
appropriate application of the applicant, building and other permits may be
issued to the applicant for development, construction and other work in the
area encompassed by the approved final plan; provided, however, that, no such
permit shall be issued unless the requirements of all applicable codes and
ordinances have been satisfied.
      (6)   Limitation of final plan approval. Within one year after the
approval of a final plan for PUD, or such shorter time as may be established by
the approved development schedule, construction shall commence in accordance
with the approved plan. Failure to commence construction within such period
shall, unless an extension shall have been granted as hereinafter provided,
automatically render void the PUD permit and all approvals of the PUD plan. The
area encompassed within the PUD shall thereafter be subject to those provisions
of the zoning ordinances and other ordinances applicable in the district in
which it is located. In such case, the City Council shall forthwith adopt a
resolution repealing the PUD permit and PUD approvals and re-establishing the
zoning and other ordinance provisions that would otherwise be applicable.
      (7)   Annual review. The Zoning Administrator shall review each planned
unit development at least once each year and shall make a report through the
Commission to the City Council on the status of the development in each PUD
district. If development is not progressing reasonably well, according to
schedule, the owner shall be required to submit a statement to the Zoning
Administrator setting forth the reasons for the lack of progress. If the City
Council finds that the development has not occurred according to the
established development schedule or is not otherwise reasonable in the view of
the City Council, the City Council may initiate rezoning(s) to remove the
planned unit development district. In any event, it shall not be necessary for
the City Council to find the rezoning to a PUD district was in error.
(Prior Code, § 1120.04) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 160.319 SUBMITTALS.
   The applicant shall submit a sufficient number of copies, as required by the
City Administrator, of the following exhibits, analyses and plans during the
PUD review process.
   (A)   General concept stage.
      (1)   General information.
         (a)   The landowner’s name and address and landowner’s interest in the
subject property;
         (b)   The applicant’s name and address if different from the
landowner;
         (c)   The names and addresses of all professional consultants who have
contributed to the development of the PUD plan being submitted, including
attorney, land planner, engineer and surveyor; and
         (d)   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the
subject property to effectuate the proposed PUD, including a statement of all
legal, beneficial, tenancy and contractual interest held in or affecting the
subject property and including an up-to-date certified abstract of title or
registered property report and such other evidence as the City Attorney may
require to show the status of title or control of the subject property.
      (2)   Present status.
         (a)   The address and legal description of the subject property;
         (b)   The existing zoning classification and present use of the
subject property and all lands within 500 feet of the subject property; and
         (c)   A map depicting the existing development of the subject property
and all lands within 500 feet thereof and showing the precise location of
existing streets, property lines, easements, water mains and storm and sanitary
sewers, with invert elevations on and within 100 feet of the subject property.
      (3)   Statement. A written statement generally describing the proposed
PUD and the market which it is intended to serve, showing its relationship to
the city’s Comprehensive Plan and how the proposed PUD is to be designed,
arranged and operated in order to permit the development and use of neighboring
property in accordance with the applicable regulations of the city.
      (4)   Site conditions.
         (a)   Where deemed necessary by the city, graphic reproductions of the
existing site conditions at a scale of 100 feet shall be submitted and shall
contain the following:
            1.   Contours, minimum two-foot intervals;
            2.   Location, type and extent of tree cover;
            3.   Slope analysis;
            4.   Location and extent of water bodies, wetlands and streams and
floodplains within 300 feet of the subject property;
            5.   Significant rock outcropping;
            6.   Existing drainage patterns;
            7.   Vistas and significant views; and
            8.   Soil conditions as they affect development.
         (b)   All of the graphics should be the same scale as the final plan
to allow easy cross-reference. The use of overlays is recommended for clear
reference.
      (5)   Schematic drawing. Schematic drawing of the proposed development
concept, including, but not limited to, the general location of major
circulation elements, public and common open space, residential and other land
uses.
      (6)   Estimated number of dwelling units. A statement of the estimated
total number of dwelling units proposed for the PUD and a tabulation of the
proposed approximate allocations of land use expressed in acres and as a
percent of the total project area which shall include at least the following:
         (a)   Area devoted to residential uses;
         (b)   Area devoted to residential use by building type;
         (c)   Area devoted to common open space;
         (d)   Area devoted to public open space;
         (e)   Approximate area devoted to streets;
         (f)   Approximate area, and potential floor area, devoted to
commercial uses; and
         (g)   Approximate area, and potential floor area, devoted to
industrial or office uses.
      (7)   Stages. When the PUD is to be constructed in stages during a period
of time extending beyond a single construction season, a schedule for the
development of such stages or units shall be submitted stating the approximate
beginning and completion date for each such stage or unit and the proportion of
the total PUD public or common open space and dwelling units to be provided or
constructed during each such stage and the overall chronology of development to
be followed from stage to stage.
      (8)   Open space. When the proposed PUD includes provisions for public or
common open space or service facilities, a statement describing the provision
that is to be made for the care and maintenance of the open space or service
facilities shall be submitted. If it is proposed that the open space be owned
and/or maintained by any entity other than a governmental authority, copies of
the proposed articles of incorporation and bylaws of the entity shall be
submitted during the development stage.
      (9)   Restrictive covenants. General intents of any restrictive covenants
that are to be recorded with respect to property included in the proposed PUD.
      (10)   Feasibility study. Where deemed necessary, a market feasibility
study, including an analysis of the proposal’s economic impact on the city
shall be submitted.
   (B)   Development stage. Development stage submissions should depict and
outline the proposed implementation of the general concept stage for the PUD.
Information from the general concept stage may be included for background and
to provide a basis for the submitted plan. The development stage submissions
shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Zoning classification required for development stage submission and
any other public decision necessary for implementation of the proposed plan;
      (2)   Preliminary plans, drawn to a scale of not less than one inch
equals 100 feet (or scale requested by the Director of Public Works/Parks and
Recreation) containing at least the following information:
         (a)   Proposed name of the development (which shall not duplicate, nor
be similar in pronunciation to the name of any plat theretofore recorded in the
county wherein the subject property is situated);
         (b)   Property boundary lines and dimensions of the property and any
significant topographical or physical features of the property;
         (c)   The location, size, use and arrangement including height in
stones and feet and total square feet of ground area coverage and floor area,
or proposed building, and existing buildings which will remain, if any;
         (d)   The location, dimensions and number of all driveways, entrances,
curb cuts, parking stalls, loading spaces and access aisles and all other
circulation elements, including bike and pedestrian and the total site coverage
of all circulation elements;
         (e)   Location, designation and total area of all common open space;
         (f)   Proposed lots and blocks, if any, and numbering system;
         (g)   The location, use and size of structures and other land uses on
adjacent properties;
         (h)   Preliminary sketches of proposed landscaping;
         (i)   General grading and drainage plans for the developed PUD; and
         (j)   Any other information that may have been required by the
Planning Commission or City Council in conjunction with the approval of the
general concept plan.
      (3)   An accurate legal description of the entire area within the PUD for
which final development plan approval is sought;
      (4)   A tabulation indicating the approximate gross square footage, if
any, of commercial and industrial floor space by type of activity (such as,
drugstore, dry cleaning, supermarket);
      (5)   Preliminary architectural plans indicating use, floor plan,
elevations and exterior wall finishes of proposed buildings, including mobile
homes;
      (6)   A detailed site plan, suitable for recording, showing the physical
layout, design and purpose of all streets, easements, rights-of-way, utility
lines and facilities, lots, block, public and common open space, general
landscaping plan, structures, including mobile homes, and uses;
      (7)   Preliminary grading and site alteration plan illustrating changes
to existing topography and natural site vegetation. The plan should clearly
reflect the site treatment and its conformance with the approved concept plan;
      (8)   A preliminary and final plat prepared by a land surveyor, duly
registered in the state in accordance with M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be amended
from time to time, which shall contain a notarized certification by the
surveyor that the plat represents a survey made by the surveyor and that the
monuments shown herein exist as located and that all dimensions are correct, as
required by M.S. § 505.03, as it may be amended from time to time, and a
notarized certification by owner or owners of the adoption of the plat and the
dedication of streets and other public areas as required by M.S. § 505.03,
subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (9)   A soil erosion control plan approved by the appropriate watershed
districts, Department of Natural Resources or any other agency with review
authority clearly illustrating erosion measures to be used during construction
and as permanent measures;
      (10)   A statement summarizing all changes which have been made in any
document, plan data or information previously submitted, together with revised
copies of any such document, plan or data;
      (11)   Such other and further information as the Planning Commission,
Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation or City Council shall find
necessary to a full consideration of the entire proposed PUD or any stage
thereof; and
      (12)   The Planning Commission may, by a written order, excuse any
applicant from submitting any specific item of information or document required
herein which it finds to be unnecessary to the consideration of the specific
proposal for PUD approval.
   (C)   Final plat stage. After approval of a general concept plan for the PUD
and approval of a development stage plan for a section of the proposed PUD, the
applicant will submit the following material for review by city staff prior to
issuance of a building or other permits:
      (1)   A detailed landscaping plan;
      (2)   Proof of recording any easements and restrictive covenants prior to
the sale of any land or dwelling unit within the PUD and of the establishment
and activation of any entity that is to be responsible for the management and
maintenance of any public or common open space or service facility;
      (3)   All certificates, seals and signatures required for the dedication
of land and recordation of documents;
      (4)   Final architectural working drawings of all structures;
      (5)   Final engineering plans and specifications for streets, utilities
and other public improvements, together with a community/developer agreement
for the installation of improvements and financial guarantees for the
completion of the improvements; and
      (6)   Any other plan, agreements or specifications necessary for the city
staff to review the proposed construction.
(Prior Code, § 1120.05) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 160.330 PURPOSE.
   The regulation of off-street parking spaces in this chapter is to alleviate
or prevent congestion of the public right-of-way and to promote the safety and
general welfare of the public by establishing minimum requirements for off-
street parking of motor vehicles in accordance with the utilization of various
parcels of land or structures.
(Prior Code, § 1121.01)
§ 160.331 APPLICATION.
   The regulations and requirements set forth herein shall apply to all off-
street parking facilities in all of the zoning districts in the city.
(Prior Code, § 1121.02)
§ 160.332 DEFINITION.
   The term FLOOR AREA, for the purpose of calculating the number of off-street
parking spaces required, shall be determined on the basis of the exterior floor
area dimensions of the buildings, structure or use times the number of floors,
minus 10%.
(Prior Code, § 1121.03)
§ 160.333 SITE PLAN REQUIREMENT.
   All applications for a building or an occupancy permit in all zoning
districts shall be accompanied by a site plan drawn to scale and dimensioned
indicating the location of off-street parking and loading spaces in compliance
with the requirements set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1121.04)
§ 160.334 USE AND OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Non-conforming structures. Should a non-conforming structure or use be
damaged or destroyed by fire, it may be re-established if elsewhere permitted
in these zoning regulations; except that, in doing so, any off-street parking
or loading space which existed before shall be retained.
   (B)   Change of use or occupancy of land. No change of use or occupancy of
land already dedicated to a parking area, parking spaces or loading spaces
shall be made, nor shall any sale of land, division or subdivision of land be
made which reduces area necessary for parking, parking stalls or parking
requirements below the minimum prescribed by these zoning regulations.
   (C)   Change of use of occupancy of buildings. Any change of use or
occupancy of any building, including additions thereto, requiring more parking
area shall not be permitted until there is furnished such additional parking
spaces as required by these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1121.05)
§ 160.335 REDUCTION OF PARKING AREA.
   Off-street parking spaces and loading spaces or lot area existing upon the
effective date hereof shall not be reduced in number or size unless the number
or size exceeds the requirements set forth herein for a similar new use.
(Prior Code, § 1121.06)
§ 160.336 PARKING FOR DISABLED PERSONS.
   Parking spaces for the disabled shall be provided according to the state’s
Building Code requirements.
(Prior Code, § 1121.07)
§ 160.337 CALCULATING SPACE.
   (A)   Fractions of space. When determining the number of off-street parking
spaces results in a fraction, each fraction of one-half or more shall
constitute another space.
   (B)   Places of assembly. In stadiums, sports arenas, religious institutions
and other places of public assembly in which patrons or spectators occupy
benches, pews or other similar seating facilities, each 22 inches of the
seating facilities shall be counted as one seat for the purpose of determining
requirements.
   (C)   Several uses. Should a structure contain two or more types of use,
each use shall be calculated separately for determining the total off-street
parking spaces required.
(Prior Code, § 1121.08) (Ord. 900, passed 05-26-2015)
§ 160.338 STALL, AISLE AND DRIVEWAY DESIGN.
   (A)   Dimensions.
      (1)   Parking space size. Each parking space shall not be less than nine
feet wide and 18 feet in length exclusive of access aisles, and each space
shall be served adequately by access aisles. Spaces designed as curbside
parallel parking shall be 22 feet in length.
      (2)   Maximum residential driveway widths. (For the purpose of this
section, the width of a driveway in an R-1, R-2 or R-5 District shall include
any parallel-attached parking area):
 
Residential Zoning District             Maximum Driveway Width
                                        35 feet. or the width of the garage,
R-1, Single-Family Residential          plus an additional 12 feet, whichever
                                        is greater
                                        Width of the garage servicing dwelling
R-2, Zero Lot Line Subdivisions         unit (refer to Section 1107.07,
                                        subdivision. 3d and 3e of this chapter
                                        if driveways are combined)
                                        If driveways are separate, width of the
R-2, Single- and Two-Family Residential garage or 20 feet, whichever is
                                        greater; if combined, width of garages
                                        or 36 feet, whichever is greater
R-3, Medium Density Residential, and R- 32 feet
4, High Density Residential
R-5, Mobile Home Park                   24 feet
 
   (B)   Within structures. The off-street parking requirements may be
furnished by providing a space so designed within the principal building or one
attached thereto; however, unless provisions are made, no building permit shall
be issued to convert the space into a dwelling unit or living area until other
adequate provisions are made to comply with the required off-street parking
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Circulation. Except in the case of single-family, two-family and
townhouse dwellings, parking areas shall be designed so that circulation
between parking bays or aisles occurs within the designated parking lot and
does not depend upon a public street or alley. Except in the case of single-
family, two-family and townhouse dwellings, parking area design which requires
backing into the public street is prohibited.
   (D)   Dimensions. Except in the case of single-family, two-family and
townhouse dwellings, parking areas and their aisles shall be developed in
compliance with the following minimum standards:
 
Angle      Wall to Interlock   Interlock to Interlock Wall to Wall Minimum
           Minimum Dimension A Minimum Dimension B    Dimension C
45 degrees 44.8 feet           43.0 feet              47.0 feet
60 degrees 52.5 feet           51.0 feet              54.0 feet
75 degrees 61.3 feet           61.0 feet              62.0 feet
90 degrees 63.0 feet           63.0 feet              63.0 feet
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2586.jpg]
 
   (E)   Curb cuts and driveway openings.
      (1)   Parking space size. Each parking space shall not be less than nine
feet wide and 18 feet in length exclusive of access aisles, and each space
shall be served adequately by access aisles. Spaces designed as curbside
parallel parking shall be 22 feet in length.
      (2)   Curb cut widths. Widths of curb cuts shall be as follows, subject
to requirements of division (E)(5) below:
 
Type of Land Use                                    Maximum Width of Curb Cut
Commercial, Industrial (B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, I-1)    32 feet
Medium Density Residential (R-2, R-3) and High      32 feet
Density Residential (R-4)
Public Parks and Preservation Areas (R-1, CRP)      32 feet
Single-Family Residential (R-1) Manufactured Homes  24 feet
(R-5)
Zero Lot Line Subdivisions (R-2) (with combined     36 feet
driveways)
Zero Lot Line Subdivisions (R-2) (with separate     20 feet
driveways)
 
      (3)   Curb cut openings shall be at a minimum of three feet from the lot
line in residential districts and five feet from the lot line in business or
industrial districts.
      (4)   Driveway access curb openings on a public street, except for
single-family, two-family and townhouse dwellings, shall not be located less
than 40 feet from one another.
      (5)   Each property elevation of any parking area shall be allowed one
curb cut access for each 125 feet of street frontage. All property shall be
entitled to at least one curb cut. Single-family uses and zero lot line
subdivided lots shall be limited to one curb cut access per property unless,
upon application for a variance of this restriction, the Board of Adjustment
and Appeals finds that it is in the interest of public safety to waive such.
Medium density residential (two to six units) may have two curb cuts; provided,
neither curb cut exceeds 20 feet in width.
      (6)   Curb cuts that do not conform to this division (E) may remain in
existence unless deemed by the Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation to
be a danger or public safety hazard. Notices to abandon a curb cut may be
appealed in writing to the City Council.
      (7)    In conjunction with individual driveway replacement projects, non-
conforming curb cuts shall be made conforming to whatever extent practicable.
If, in the opinion of the Directors of Public Works/Parks and Recreation and
Community Development, a non-conforming curb cut cannot be made conforming
without undue hardship or disruption to the property, the curb cut may remain
in existence, unchanged. In conjunction with street improvement projects, non-
conforming driveways shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis by the City
Council to determine, at its sole discretion and to the extent practicable, if
the non-conforming curb cut must be made conforming. Decisions regarding curb
cuts may be appealed in writing to the City Council.
   (F)   Grade elevation. The grade elevation of any parking area shall not
exceed 5%.
   (G)   Surfacing.
      (1)   All areas, as allowed in §
160.055(D) of this chapter, to be utilized for parking space and driveways
shall be surfaced with a permanent improved surface material as defined in §
160.012 of this chapter, suitable to control dust, drainage and erosion,
meeting the requirements of §
152.003 of this code of ordinances, except as follows: a gravel surface
material meeting the specifications of §
152.003(E) of this code of ordinances may be used for parking areas in an R-
1 or R-2 District not to exceed 300 square feet or, if to be used as a parking
surface for an RV, the minimum area that would encompass the wheel-base area of
one recreational vehicle. Plans for surfacing and drainage of driveways and
stalls for five or more vehicles shall be submitted to the Director of
Community Development for review, and the final drainage plan must receive the
Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation’s written approval.
      (2)   All areas used regularly for the parking of a vehicle or vehicles
shall be serviced by an improved driveway adjoining to the property’s primary
driveway. Access to separate parking areas shall be achieved only from the
property’s approved curb cut opening at the street. Regularly accessing parking
areas by other means or locations shall be prohibited.
   (H)   Striping. Except for single-family, two-family and townhouses, all
parking stalls shall be marked with yellow painted lines not less than four
inches wide.
   (I)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area
shall be so arranged so to reflect the light away from adjoining property,
abutting residential uses and public rights-of-way and be in compliance with §
160.031 of this chapter.
   (J)   Signs. No sign shall be so located as to restrict the sight lines and
orderly operation and traffic movement within any parking lot. All signing must
conform to Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances.
   (K)   Curbing and landscaping.
      (1)   Except for single-family and two-family developments, all open off-
street parking shall have a perimeter curb barrier around the entire parking
lot.
      (2)   The specifications and location of this curb barrier shall comply
herewith and with the setback requirements for parking areas stated in §
160.055(D) of this chapter.
      (3)   Grass, plantings or surfacing materials shall be provided in all
areas bordering the parking area.
   (L)   Required screening. All open, non-residential, off-street parking
areas of five or more spaces shall be screened and landscaped from abutting or
surrounding residential districts in compliance with §
160.030(F) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1121.09) (Ord. 524, passed 02-22-1993; Ord. 590, passed 11-26-
1996; Ord. 620, passed 07-27-1998; Ord. 640, passed 10-11-1999; Ord. 642,
passed 01-10-2000; Ord. 756, passed 01-24-2005; Ord. 793, passed 01-30-2008;
Ord. 829, passed 09-03-2009; Ord. 869, passed 04-05-2012; Ord. 1035, passed 4-
14-2025)
§ 160.339 MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be the joint and several responsibility of the lessee and owner of
the principal use, uses or building to maintain, in a neat and adequate manner,
the parking space, accessways, striping, landscaping and required fencing/
screening.
(Prior Code, § 1121.10)
§ 160.340 LOCATION.
   All accessory off-street parking facilities required by this chapter shall
be located and restricted as follows.
   (A)   Required accessory off-street parking shall be on the same lot under
the same ownership as the principal use being served, except under the
provisions of §
160.344(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   Except for single-family, two-family and townhouse dwellings, head-in
parking, directly off of and adjacent to a public street, with each stall
having its own direct access to the public street, shall be prohibited.
   (C)   Accessory off-street parking shall comply with the required minimum
setbacks as stated in §
160.055(D) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1121.11) (Ord. 590, passed 11-26-1996)
§ 160.341 USE OF REQUIRED AREA.
   Required accessory off-street parking spaces in any district shall not be
utilized for open storage, sale or rental of goods, storage of inoperable
vehicles, as regulated by §
160.035 of this chapter, and/or storage of snow.
(Prior Code, § 1121.12)
§ 160.342 SCHEDULE OF OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum number of off-street parking spaces shall be provided
and maintained by ownership, easement and/or lease for and during the life of
the respective uses hereinafter set forth:
                                                                         Eight off-
                                                                         street parking
                                                                         spaces, plus
Auto repair, major bus terminal, taxi terminal, boats and marine sales   one additional
and repair, bottling company, shop for a trade employing six or less     space for each
people, garden supply store, building materials sales in structure       800 square
                                                                         feet of floor
                                                                         area over
                                                                         1,000 square
                                                                         feet
                                                                         At least one
                                                                         parking space
Baseball field, stadium                                                  for each eight
                                                                         seats of
                                                                         design
                                                                         capacity
                                                                         At least two
                                                                         parking spaces
                                                                         for each three
Boarding house, fraternity house, sorority house                         persons for
                                                                         whom
                                                                         accommodations
                                                                         are provided
                                                                         for sleeping
                                                                         At least five
                                                                         parking spaces
                                                                         for each
                                                                         alley, plus
                                                                         additional
                                                                         spaces as may
Bowling alley                                                            be required
                                                                         herein for
                                                                         related uses
                                                                         contained
                                                                         within the
                                                                         principal
                                                                         structure
                                                                         a. Automatic
                                                                         drive through,
                                                                         serviced: a
                                                                         minimum of ten
                                                                         spaces, or one
                                                                         space for each
                                                                         employee on
                                                                         the maximum
                                                                         shift,
                                                                         whichever is
Car wash (in addition to required magazining or stacking space)          greater
                                                                         b. Self-
                                                                         service: a
                                                                         minimum of two
                                                                         spaces
                                                                         c. Motor fuel
                                                                         station car
                                                                         wash: zero in
                                                                         addition to
                                                                         that required
                                                                         for the
                                                                         station
                                                                         At least one
                                                                         parking space
                                                                         for each four
                                                                         seats, based
                                                                         on the design
                                                                         capacity of
                                                                         the main
                                                                         assembly hall.
                                                                         Facilities, as
                                                                         may be
Religious institution, theater, auditorium                               provided in
                                                                         conjunction
                                                                         with such
                                                                         buildings or
                                                                         uses, shall be
                                                                         subject to
                                                                         additional
                                                                         requirements
                                                                         which are
                                                                         imposed by
                                                                         this chapter
                                                                         Ten spaces,
                                                                         plus one for
                                                                         each 150
                                                                         square feet in
Community center, physical culture studio, library, private club, lodge, excess of
museum, art gallery                                                      2,000 square
                                                                         feet of floor
                                                                         area in the
                                                                         principal
                                                                         structure
                                                                         At least one
                                                                         space for each
                                                                         40 square feet
                                                                         of gross floor
                                                                         area of dining
                                                                         or one parking
                                                                         space per
                                                                         three seating
                                                                         spaces,
Drive-in establishment and convenience food                              whichever is
                                                                         greater, and
                                                                         one space for
                                                                         each 80 square
                                                                         feet of
                                                                         kitchen area
                                                                         or one space
                                                                         per employee,
                                                                         whichever is
                                                                         greater
                                                                         20 spaces,
                                                                         plus one for
                                                                         each 150
                                                                         square feet in
Golf course, country club, tennis club, public swimming pool             excess of
                                                                         1,000 square
                                                                         feet of floor
                                                                         space in the
                                                                         principal
                                                                         structure
                                                                         Ten off-street
                                                                         parking
                                                                         spaces, plus
Golf driving range, miniature golf, archery range                        one for each
                                                                         100 square
                                                                         feet of floor
                                                                         area
                                                                         At least eight
                                                                         spaces, plus
                                                                         one space for
                                                                         each two
                                                                         employees on
                                                                         each shift
                                                                         based on
Manufacturing, fabricating or processing of a product or material;       maximum
warehouse, storage, handling of bulk goods, post offices                 planned
                                                                         employment or,
                                                                         at a minimum,
                                                                         at least eight
                                                                         spaces, plus
                                                                         one space for
                                                                         each 500
                                                                         square feet of
                                                                         floor area
                                                                         One space for
                                                                         each 100
                                                                         square feet of
                                                                         net floor area
                                                                         or seven and
Medical, dental or hospital out-patient clinics                          one-half
                                                                         spaces per
                                                                         doctor,
                                                                         whichever
                                                                         number of
                                                                         parking spaces
                                                                         is greater
                                                                         One space per
                                                                         each rental
                                                                         unit, plus one
Motel, motor hotel, hotel                                                space for each
                                                                         ten units and
                                                                         one space for
                                                                         each employee
                                                                         on any shift
                                                                         At least four
                                                                         off-street
                                                                         parking
                                                                         spaces, plus
                                                                         two off-street
                                                                         parking spaces
                                                                         for each
                                                                         service stall.
                                                                         Those
                                                                         facilities
                                                                         designed for
                                                                         sale of other
                                                                         items than
Motor fuel station                                                       strictly
                                                                         automotive
                                                                         products,
                                                                         parts or
                                                                         service shall
                                                                         be required to
                                                                         provide
                                                                         additional
                                                                         parking in
                                                                         compliance
                                                                         with other
                                                                         applicable
                                                                         sections of
                                                                         this chapter
                                                                         One and one-
                                                                         half
                                                                         uncovered,
                                                                         parking spaces
                                                                         per unit and
                                                                         at least one
                                                                         garage space
Multiple-family dwellings                                                per unit. A
                                                                         parking space
                                                                         and garage
                                                                         shall be
                                                                         designated and
                                                                         included with
                                                                         each rental
                                                                         unit
                                                                         Three spaces,
                                                                         plus one space
Office building, animal hospital and professional office                 for each 175
                                                                         square feet of
                                                                         floor area
                                                                         At least five
                                                                         parking spaces
                                                                         for each acre
                                                                         of park over
                                                                         one acre, two
                                                                         parking spaces
                                                                         per acre for
                                                                         playgrounds,
                                                                         and ten spaces
                                                                         for each acre
Public park, playground and play field                                   of play field.
                                                                         When a public
                                                                         recreation
                                                                         site has more
                                                                         than one use
                                                                         designation,
                                                                         the areas must
                                                                         be divided for
                                                                         determining
                                                                         the required
                                                                         parking spaces
                                                                         At least one
                                                                         space for each
                                                                         40 square feet
                                                                         of gross floor
                                                                         area of dining
                                                                         and bar area
                                                                         or one parking
                                                                         space per
                                                                         three seating
Restaurant, café, private club serving food and/or drinks, bar, tavern, spaces,
nightclub                                                                whichever is
                                                                         greater and
                                                                         one space for
                                                                         each 80 square
                                                                         feet of
                                                                         kitchen area
                                                                         for one space
                                                                         per employee,
                                                                         whichever is
                                                                         greater
                                                                         At least eight
                                                                         spaces or one
                                                                         space for each
                                                                         100 square
                                                                         feet devoted
                                                                         to public
                                                                         sales or
                                                                         service, plus
                                                                         one space for
Retail sales and service business with 50% or more of gross floor area   each 500
devoted to storage, warehouses and/or industry                           square feet of
                                                                         storage area;
                                                                         or at least
                                                                         eight spaces
                                                                         or one space
                                                                         for each
                                                                         employee on
                                                                         the minimum
                                                                         shift,
                                                                         whichever is
                                                                         appropriate
                                                                         At least one
                                                                         off-street
                                                                         parking space
Retail store and service establishment                                   for each 100
                                                                         square feet of
                                                                         retail floor
                                                                         area, plus one
                                                                         per employee
                                                                         Four spaces,
                                                                         plus one for
Sanitarium, convalescent home, rest home, nursing home or day nursery    each three
                                                                         beds for which
                                                                         accommodations
                                                                         are offered
                                                                         At least one
                                                                         parking space
                                                                         for each
                                                                         classroom,
School, elementary and junior high                                       plus one
                                                                         additional
                                                                         space for each
                                                                         50-student
                                                                         capacity
                                                                         At least one
                                                                         parking space
                                                                         for each seven
                                                                         students,
School, high school through college and private and day or church school based on
                                                                         design
                                                                         capacity, plus
                                                                         one additional
                                                                         space for each
                                                                         classroom
Single-family and two-family dwellings                                   Two spaces per
                                                                         unit
                                                                         20 off-street
                                                                         parking
                                                                         spaces, plus
                                                                         one additional
                                                                         off-street
Skating rink, dance hall or public auction house                         parking space
                                                                         for each 200
                                                                         square feet of
                                                                         floor space
                                                                         over 2,000
                                                                         square feet
                                                                         Three spaces
                                                                         per unit, two
Townhouse and condominium                                                of which shall
                                                                         be garage
                                                                         spaces
                                                                         At least 20
                                                                         parking spaces
                                                                         for each
                                                                         chapel or
                                                                         parlor, plus
                                                                         one parking
                                                                         space for each
                                                                         funeral
Undertaking establishment                                                vehicle
                                                                         maintained on
                                                                         the premises.
                                                                         Aisle space
                                                                         shall also be
                                                                         provided off
                                                                         the street for
                                                                         making up a
                                                                         funeral
                                                                         procession
 
(Prior Code, § 1121.13) (Ord. 900, passed 05-26-2015)
§ 160.343 PROOF OF PARKING.
   A reduction in parking space requirements may be administratively granted by
the Director of Community Development or formally in conjunction with a City
Council approved development review if the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The number of spaces being reduced does not exceed 15% of the required
amount;
   (B)   The required area for the spaces being omitted must be available for
later use if necessary;
   (C)   The required area for the spaces being omitted must be complementary
and coordinated with the proposed parking spaces and access to property;
   (D)   The required area for the spaces being omitted shall be designated as
undevelopable other than being used for parking or access; and
   (E)   A written agreement approved by the City Attorney shall be filed with
the property requiring that the owner or subsequent owners be required to
improve the omitted parking spaces if needed by the use of the property.
(Prior Code, § 1121.14) (Ord. 620, passed 07-27-1998)
§ 160.344 JOINT FACILITIES AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Joint facilities.
      (1)   Except in the R-1 and R-2 Districts and as herein provided,
required off-street parking facilities serving two or more uses may be located
on the same lot or in the same structure; provided that, the total number of
parking spaces furnished shall not be less than the total sum of the separate
requirements for each use.
      (2)   The City Council may, after receiving a report and recommendation
from the Planning Commission, approve a conditional use permit for one or more
businesses to provide the required off-street parking facilities by joint use
of one or more sites where the total number of spaces provided are less than
the sum of the total required for each business should they provide them
separately. When considering a request for such a permit, the Planning
Commission shall not recommend that the permit be granted, nor the Council
approve a permit, except when the following conditions are found to exist:
         (a)   Up to 50% of the parking facilities required for a theater,
bowling alley, dance hall, bar or restaurant may be supplied by the off-street
parking facilities provided by types of uses specified as primarily daytime
uses in division (A)(2)(d) below;
         (b)   Up to 50% of the off-street parking facilities required for any
use specified under division (A)(2)(d) below as primary daytime uses may be
supplied by the parking facilities provided by the following: nighttime or
Sunday uses, auditoriums incidental to a public or parochial school, religious
institutions, bowling alley, dance hall, theaters, bar or restaurant;
         (c)   Up to 80% of the parking facilities required by this chapter for
a church or for an auditorium incidental to a public or parochial school may be
supplied by the off-street parking facilities provided by uses specified under
division (A)(2)(d) below as primarily daytime uses;
         (d)   For the purpose of this section, the following uses are
considered as primarily daytime uses: banks, business offices, retail stores,
personal service shops, household equipment or furniture shops, clothing or
shoe repair or service shops, manufacturing, wholesale and similar uses;
         (e)   Other joint use of parking facilities that may be found to be in
keeping with the intent of this chapter; provided that, the conditions in
division (A)(2)(f) below and any other imposed by the City Council are met; and
         (f)   Conditions required for joint use.
            1.   The building or use for which application is being made to
utilize the off-street parking facilities provided by another building or use
shall be located within 300 feet of the parking facilities and not separated by
a public way.
            2.   The applicant shall show that there is not substantial
conflict in the principal operating hours of the two buildings or uses for
which joint use of off-street parking facilities is proposed.
      (3)   A properly drawn legal instrument, executed by the parties
concerned for joint use of off-street parking facilities, duly approved as to
form and manner of execution by the City Attorney, shall be filed with the City
Administrator and recorded with the county’s Register of Deeds.
   (B)   Joint driveways. Joint driveways serving and being located on more
than one property are allowed under the following conditions:
      (1)   The right-of-way and maintenance agreements be drafted and filed
with the county on the properties affected;
      (2)   The curb cut width shall not exceed existing allowable widths
established by this chapter; and
      (3)   Off-street parking spaces required by a district shall be provided
for each property as required by use. The portion of the driveway that is
shared by the properties shall not be used to meet the requirements of this
chapter for off-street parking.
(Prior Code, § 1121.15) (Ord. 445, passed 07-25-1988; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010; Ord. 900, passed 05-26-2015)
OFF-STREET LOADING
§ 160.355 PURPOSE.
   The regulations of loading spaces in these zoning regulations is to
alleviate or prevent congestion of the public right-of-way and so to promote
the safety and general welfare of the public by establishing minimum
requirements for off-street loading and unloading from motor vehicles in
accordance with the utilization of various parcels of land or structures.
(Prior Code, § 1122.01)
§ 160.356 LOCATION.
   (A)   All required loading berths shall be off-street and located on the
same lot as the building or use to be served.
   (B)   All loading berth curb cuts shall be located a minimum of 50 feet from
the intersection of two or more street rights-of-way. This distance shall be
measured from the property line.
   (C)   No loading berth shall be located closer than 50 feet from a
residential district unless within a structure.
   (D)   Loading berths shall not occupy the front yard setbacks.
   (E)   Loading berths located at the front or at the side of buildings on a
corner lot shall require a conditional use permit.
      (1)   Loading berths shall not conflict with pedestrian movement.
      (2)   Loading berths shall not obstruct the view of the public right-of-
way from off-street parking access.
      (3)   Loading berths shall comply with all other requirements of this
chapter.
   (F)   Each loading berth shall be located with appropriate means of
vehicular access to a street in a manner which will cause the least
interference with traffic.
(Prior Code, § 1122.02)
§ 160.357 SURFACING.
   All loading berths and accessways shall be improved with not less than six-
inch Class 5 base and two-inch bituminous surfacing to control the dust and
drainage according to a plan submitted to and subject to the approval of the
Director of Public Works/Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 1122.03)
§ 160.358 ACCESSORY USE, PARKING AND STORAGE.
   Any space allocated as a required loading berth or access drive so as to
comply with the terms of these zoning regulations shall not be used for the
storage of goods, inoperable vehicles or snow and shall not be included as part
of the space requirements necessary to meet the off-street area.
(Prior Code, § 1122.04)
§ 160.359 SCREENING.
   All loading areas shall be screened and landscaped from abutting and
surrounding residential uses in compliance with §
160.030(F) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1122.05)
§ 160.360 SIZE.
   Unless otherwise specified in these zoning regulations, the first loading
berth shall not be less than 55 feet in length, and additional berths required
shall not be less than ten feet in width and 14 feet in height, exclusive of
aisle and maneuvering space.
(Prior Code, § 1122.06)
§ 160.361 SCHEDULE OF OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   The number of required off-street loading berths shall be as follows:
 
Auditorium, convention hall, exhibition hall, sports arena or stadium
10,000 to 100,000 square feet of floor  One loading berth
area
For each additional 100,000 square feet One additional loading berth
of floor area or fraction thereof
Manufacturing, fabrication, processing, warehousing, storing, retail sales,
school and hotels
For such a building 5,000 to 100,000    One loading berth
square feet of floor area
For each additional 100,000 square feet Plus one berth 30 feet in length for
or fraction thereof                     each 35,000 square feet of floor area
                                        or fraction thereof
 
(Prior Code, § 1122.07)
NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
§ 160.375 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the regulation of non-
conforming buildings, structures and uses and to specify those requirements,
circumstances and conditions under which non- conforming buildings, structures
and uses will be operated and maintained. This chapter establishes separate
districts, each of which is an appropriate area for the location of uses which
are permitted in that district. It is necessary and consistent with the
establishment of these districts that non-conforming buildings, structures and
uses not be permitted to continue without restriction. Furthermore, it is the
intent of this chapter that all non-conforming uses shall be eventually brought
into conformity.
(Prior Code, § 1123.01)
§ 160.376 CONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Continuance of use.
      (1)   General. Any structure or use lawfully existing prior to a revision
to this chapter or a change in a zoning district designation which makes the
structure or use non-conforming shall not be enlarged, but may be continued at
the size and in the manner of operation existing upon such date, except as
hereinafter specified or subsequently amended.
      (2)   Parking areas for non-residential uses, allowed by conditional use
permit, in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5 districts. Parking areas in existence
as of the date of enactment of this section, and having setbacks which are non-
conforming with respect to setback requirements stated in §
160.055(D) of this chapter, may continue in use and may be resurfaced and
restriped, and may be reconstructed or replaced using setbacks which conform to
the section in effect at the time of original construction; except that, a
parking lot being reconstructed or replaced shall be made conforming to the
current setback requirements in effect at the time of reconstruction or
replacement if feasible without reducing the required number of parking spaces.
The feasibility of meeting the current setback requirements shall be determined
by the Director of Community Development.
      (3)   Day care centers and group nurseries. Day care centers and group
nurseries in existence as of the date of the enactment of Ord. 595, having a
play yard less than 200 feet from the Highway 10 right-of-way line, shall not
be considered a non-conforming use, and any structure or play yard on the
premises may be reconstructed, expanded or enlarged as long as the setback of
the play yard from the Highway 10 right-of-way line is not made less by the
reconstruction, expansion or enlargement.
   (B)   Prior construction permits. Any proposed structure which will, under
this chapter, become non- conforming, but for which a building permit has been
lawfully granted prior to the effective date hereof, may be completed in
accordance with the approved plans; provided, construction is started within 60
days of the effective date hereof, is not abandoned for a period of more than
120 days and continues to completion within two years. The structure and use
shall thereafter be a legally non-conforming structure and use.
(Prior Code, § 1123.02) (Ord. 584, passed 07-15-1996; Ord. 590, passed 11-26-
1996; Ord. 595, passed 04-14-1997)
§ 160.377 DISCONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Whenever a lawful non-conforming use of a structure or land is discontinued
for a period of more than one year, any future use of the structure or lands
shall be made to conform with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1123.03) (Ord. 970, passed 01-03-2020)
§ 160.378 CHANGE OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Change to conforming use. When any lawful non-conforming use of any
structure or land in any district has been changed to a conforming use, it
shall not thereafter be changed to any non-conforming use.
   (B)   Change to lessen non-conformity. A lawful non-conforming use of a
structure or parcel of land may be changed to lessen the non-conformity of use.
Once a non-conforming structure or parcel of land has been changed, it shall
not thereafter be so altered to increase the non-conformity.
(Prior Code, § 1123.04)
§ 160.379 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Repairs. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair of a
structure to a safe condition. When the structure is declared unsafe by the
Building Inspector, the necessary repairs shall not constitute more than 50% of
the fair market value of the structure. The value shall be determined by the
Council.
   (B)   Maintenance. Normal maintenance of a building or other structure
containing or related to a lawful non-conforming use is permitted, including
necessary non-structural repairs and incidental alterations which do not
physically extend or intensify the non-conforming use.
(Prior Code, § 1123.05)
§ 160.380 ALTERATIONS.
   Alterations may be made to a building containing lawful non-conforming
residential units when they will improve the livability thereof; provided, they
will not increase the number of dwelling units or size or volume of the
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 1123.06)
§ 160.381 DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION.
   If, at any time, a non-conforming building, structure or use shall be
destroyed to the extent of more than 50% of its fair market value, as indicated
in the records of the County Assessor at the time of damage, and no building
permit has been applied for within 180 days of when the property is damaged,
any future use of the structure or lands shall be made to conform with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1123.07) (Ord. 970, passed 01-03-2020)
§ 160.382 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   No non-conforming building, structure or use shall be moved to another lot
or to any other part of the parcel of land upon which the same was constructed
or was conducted at the effective date hereof unless the movement shall bring
the non- conformance into compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1123.08)
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
§ 160.395 PURPOSE.
   The zoning regulation of wireless telecommuni- cations facilities is
intended to provide for the appropriate location, development and installation
of telecommunications towers and antennas within the city. The provisions of
this subchapter are intended to protect the health, safety and aesthetic
concerns of the community by minimizing the adverse visual effects of towers
and antennas through careful design, siting and screening; by avoiding
potential damage from tower failure to adjacent properties through structural
standards and setback requirements; and by maximizing the use of existing
towers, structures or buildings to accommodate new telecommunications antennas
in the city.
(Prior Code, § 1124.01) (Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997)
§ 160.396 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE. A building or cabinet-like structure located
adjacent to, or in the immediate vicinity of, a wireless telecommunication
tower or antenna to house equipment customarily incidental to the receiving or
transmitting of wireless broadcasts, cellular telephone calls, voice messaging
and paging services.
   ANTENNAS. Equipment used for transmitting or receiving radio frequency
signals which is attached to a tower, building or other structure, usually
consisting of a series of directional panels, microwave or satellite dishes, or
omnidirectional “whip” antennas.
   ANTENNAS, STEALTH. Wireless telecom- munication antenna designed to blend
into the surrounding environment or integrated into the physical structure to
which it is attached.
   BASE TRANSCEIVER STATION. Equipment that provides the link between wireless
communications and land-based public telephone switching networks, including
radio frequency transceivers, back-up power sources, power amplifiers and
signal processing hardware, typically contained in a small building or cabinet.
   CO-LOCATION. The location of wireless telecommunications equipment from more
than one provider on one common tower, building or structure.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or could fit within such an enclosure; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility; provided, the equipment is in aggregate, no more than 28 cubic feet
in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services, and any equipment
concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment.
   TOWER. Any ground-mounted, pole, spire, structure or combination thereof,
including supporting lines, cables, wires, braces and masts, to which a
telecommunications antenna is attached or affixed.
   TOWER, LATTICE. Three- or four-legged steel girdered structures typically
supporting multiple communications users and services generally ranging from 60
feet to 200 feet in height.
   TOWER, MONOPOLE. Single pole design, approximately three feet in diameter at
the base narrowing to approximately one and one-half feet at the top, generally
ranging from 25 to 125 feet in height.
   UTILITY POLE. Pole used to support essential services such as power,
telephone or cable television lines; or used to support street or pedestrian
way lighting, typically located in public rights-of-way or boulevards.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. Licensed or unlicensed wireless
telecommunication services including cellular, digital cellular, personal
communication services (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced
specialized mobile radio (ESMR), commercial or private paging services or
similar services marketed or provided to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 1124.02) (Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997)
§ 160.397 ALLOWANCE FOR TOWERS AND ANTENNAS BY ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses, all districts. Wireless telecommunication towers and
antennas shall be allowed in any district as a permitted use only as provided
below.
      (1)   Water tower. Wireless telecom- munication antennas shall be
permitted upon city-owned water towers provided the applicant has an approved
lease agreement with the city and has obtained a building permit from the city
and paid all applicable permit fees.
      (2)   Co-location on existing towers. Wireless telecommunication antennas
shall be permitted to be attached to existing towers within the city in
accordance with the applicable siting guidelines and design criteria in §
160.398 of this chapter, after the applicant has provided to the city a written
statement of approval from the tower owner or lessor and has obtained a
building permit from the city and paid all applicable permit fees.
      (3)   Utility poles. Wireless telecommunication antennas shall be
permitted to be attached to utility poles after the applicant has provided a
written statement of approval from the utility pole owner or lessor and has
obtained a building permit from the city and paid the necessary fees. The
height of the antennas shall not exceed ten feet and shall not extend more than
six feet above the pole.
      (4)   Small wireless facility. Small wireless facilities located on non-
decorative utility poles within the public right-of-way, shall be permitted in
all zoning districts and must be in compliance with Ch. 152 of this code of
ordinances. If located within public right-of-way on a block where decorative
utility poles are present, the small wireless facility must be located on a
utility pole of similar appearance and dimensions to that of the existing
decorative utility poles.
   (B)   Conditional uses, specific districts.
      (1)   Wireless telecommunication towers and antennas shall be allowed
with the approval of a conditional use permit in the zoning districts specified
in the table below and in accordance with the co-location requirements stated
in §
160.398 of this chapter, siting requirements and design criteria stated in §
160.399 of this chapter, and the procedural requirements stated in §
160.400 of this chapter.
      (2)   The procedure for review and action on conditional use permits
shall be as stated in §§
160.450 through
160.452 of this chapter.
      (3)   Conditional use permits are not required for towers and/or antennas
used by the city for city purposes or public agencies for public safety
purposes; or for repair, adjustment or replacement of the elements of a
wireless telecommunication antenna array affixed to a tower, if the repair,
replacement or adjustment does not reduce acceptable safety standards.
      (4)   The height limitations listed in the following table shall include
all parts of the wireless telecommunication tower and antenna structure, except
for that space needed for lightening diffusion apparata.
 
Zoning      Height Limitations                                                                With Co-
Districts                                                                                     Location
R-1, R-2,   Ten feet above the height of the roof, allowed only if mounted on educational
R-3, R-4,   facilities, religious institutions, government or public utility buildings; or in
R-5         “upward thrusting architectural elements” such as church steeples, bell towersN/A
(antennas   smokestacks 1
only)
B-1, B-2    75 feet                                                                           95 feet2
B-3, B-4,
PUD         100 feet                                                                          120
(commercial                                                                                   feet2
PUDs only)3
PUD
(industrial 150 feet                                                                          N/A
PUDs only)3
CRP and     100 feet, allowed only if incorporated into new or existing facilities or
city-owned  structures, such as using the tower as a light standard for ball fields or        120
land zoned  parking areas, or into mature tree stands that provide a suitable screen for at   feet2
R-1         least half the height of the tower
NOTES TO TABLE:
1 In accordance with §
160.399 of this chapter.
2 Co-location height bonus subject to applicant providing to the city proof of a signed lease
arrangement, shared use agreement or other like document.
3 For towers and antennas proposed in PUDs, the applicant shall file a request to amend the existing
PUD final plan and/or adopted conditional use permit in accordance with §§
160.315 through
160.319 and
160.450 through
160.452 of this chapter. Wireless telecommunication towers and antennas shall not be allowed in PUDs
having residential uses.
 
(Prior Code, § 1124.03) (Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997; Ord. 793, passed 01-30-
2008; Ord. 829, passed 09-03-2009; Ord. 940, passed 01-22-2018)
§ 160.398 CO-LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A proposal for a new wireless telecommunication tower shall not be
approved unless the applicant documents to the satisfaction of the city that
the antennas planned for the proposed tower cannot be accommodated on an
existing or approved tower or commercial or industrial building within a one-
half mile radius, transcending municipal borders, due to one or more of the
following:
      (1)   The antenna would exceed the structural capacity of the existing or
approved tower or commercial building;
      (2)   The antenna would cause interference with other existing or planned
equipment at the tower or building;
      (3)   Existing or approved towers and commercial buildings cannot
reasonably accommodate the antenna at a height necessary for the proposed
antenna to function;
      (4)   Existing or approved towers and commercial buildings are outside of
the documented search area;
      (5)   The owners or lessors of existing or approved towers and commercial
buildings are unwilling to allow co-location upon their facilities or are
unavailable to grant such an allowance; and
      (6)   Approval cannot be obtained for co-locating upon an existing tower
or antenna site which is within the documented search area, but outside city
municipal boundaries.
   (B)   It is the city’s intent to encourage co-locating providers to share
accessory equipment building space whenever possible and practical so as to
minimize the number of necessary accessory buildings and their impact upon the
surrounding community. An applicant co-locating on another provider’s tower
shall incorporate its base transceiver station and all other equipment into an
existing accessory equipment building or suitable principal structure, except
as otherwise provided in this division (B). If this requirement cannot be met
due to insufficient space within the existing accessory building, security
issues, competition or compatibility concerns, or for other reasons, one of the
following options, ranked in preferential order, shall be utilized.
      (1)   The existing accessory building shall be expanded to a size
sufficient to house the co-locator’s equipment. The building expansion shall
match the design and features of the existing accessory equipment building. The
applicant shall obtain a building permit from the city prior to construction.
      (2)   A cement pad shall be constructed alongside and adjacent to the
existing accessory equipment building upon which the co-locator’s equipment
shall be attached. The applicant shall obtain a building permit from the city
prior to construction.
      (3)   A separate building shall be constructed that conforms to all the
requirements set forth in §
160.399 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1124.04) (Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997)
§ 160.399 SITING AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements of this section apply to all wireless telecommunications
towers and antennas erected, constructed, placed or replaced in the city. All
wireless telecommunication towers and antennas shall be designed and situated
to be visually unobtrusive to minimize the impact upon the neighboring uses and
shall conform to the following design and siting criteria.
   (A)   Setbacks. The minimum setback from any property line or public right-
of-way for a wireless telecommunications tower is 30 feet unless abutting a
residential district, then at least half the height of the tower. Where placed
on a lot improved with a principal building, the wireless telecommunication
tower shall be located only in the rear yard or interior side yards not
abutting streets. Wireless telecommunication towers shall not be placed between
the principal building and any street abutting the property. Setbacks for
accessory equipment structures associated with wireless telecommunication
towers and antennas shall meet the requirements as outlined in §
160.055(D) of this chapter.
   (B)   Accessory equipment structures. The base transceiver station and all
other related equipment shall be housed in an existing building whenever
possible. If an existing building is unavailable, a new accessory equipment
building may be constructed according to State Building Code requirements and
shall be of the same or better construction, design and appearance as any
principal structure or adjacent buildings. If the equipment is to be housed in
a weather-proof cabinetlike structure in lieu of a building, it shall be
mounted upon a suitable concrete pad.
   (C)   Fencing. The wireless telecommunication antenna tower and/or accessory
equipment structure shall be surrounded with an eight-foot fence so as to
prevent unauthorized entry and access to the equipment building or tower.
Barbed wire, razor wire or electrified fences shall not be permitted.
   (D)   Landscaping and screening. The wireless telecommunication tower and/or
accessory equipment building shall be landscaped and screened with a mixture of
six-foot tall evergreens and one and one-half inch caliper ornamental deciduous
trees at a ratio of four evergreens per every one deciduous tree, spaced no
less than eight feet apart on center so as to achieve at least a 50% opaque
screen. Trees may be clustered to create a more natural appearance to the
screening. In addition to these landscape requirements, wireless
telecommunication towers and/or accessory equipment buildings located on city-
owned land or in the CRP Zoning District shall include a mix of shrubbery and/
or flowering perennials in order to enhance and complement the natural features
and environmental value of the city’s parks and recreation areas. The
landscaping plan shall be reviewed by the City Forester and approved by the
City Council as part of a conditional use permit (CUP) or by the Director of
Community Development and City Forester, if the wireless telecommunication
tower or antennas is allowed as a permitted use. The City Council or Director
of Community Development and City Forester, as applicable, may waive the
landscaping and/or screening requirements upon request of the applicant if the
existing landscaping and screening is deemed sufficient.
   (E)   Color. The wireless telecommunication tower and antenna shall be of a
neutral color such as light grey or sky blue, except as dictated by the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) and be designed to minimize visibility and to
blend into the surrounding environment.
   (F)   Construction type and materials. The wireless telecommunication tower
shall be of a monopole construction unless a variance is granted by the Board
of Adjustment and Appeals. Guy-wired towers shall not be permitted. Metal
towers shall be constructed of, or treated with, corrosive-resistant materials.
   (G)   Roof-mounted wireless telecommunication antennas. Roof-mounted
wireless telecommunication antennas shall not be permitted on buildings with
pitched-roofs, unless they are stealth antennas incorporated into upward
thrusting architectural elements, such as a church steeple, spire or belltower,
smokestack and the like. On flat roofs, the height of the antennas and mounting
hardware may not be more than ten feet above the highest point of the roof to
which the antennas is attached.
   (H)   Structurally-mounted wireless telecommuni- cations antennas.
Telecommunication antennas mounted upon sides of buildings shall be attached
flush against building side, not to protrude more than the depth of the
antennas. Structurally mounted antennas not affixed to towers shall be made to
blend into the design and contours of the structure, unless roof-mounted in
accordance with division (G) above.
   (I)   Prevention of radiation. Wireless telecommunication antennas shall be
subject to state and federal regulations regarding non-ionizing radiation and
other health hazards related to such facilities. If the federal government
adopts new, more restrictive standards, the antennas shall be made to comply or
the antenna shall be removed by the owner or the city at the tower owner’s
expense. The owner or operator of the tower shall pay any associated costs of
compliance verification.
   (J)   Lights. No wireless telecommunication tower or antenna shall have
affixed or attached to it in any way except during time of repair or
installation, any lights, reflectors, flashers, day-time strobes or steady
night time light or other illumination devices, except as required by the
Federal Aviation Agency, the Federal Communications Commission or the city.
This restriction against lights shall not apply to towers which have been
combined with light standards for illumination of ball fields, parking lots,
playgrounds or other similar public uses, as provided in §
160.397(B) of this chapter for city-owned land and CRP Districts.
   (K)   Signs and advertising. The use of any portion of a tower for signs or
advertising, other than required warning signs, shall be prohibited.
   (L)   Other attachments. No antennas or tower shall have constructed
thereon, or attached thereto, any platform, catwalk, crows’ nest or like
structure for the purpose of human support, except during periods of
construction or repair.
   (M)   Interference with public safety telecommunications. No new or existing
telecommunications service shall interfere with public safety
telecommunications.
(Prior Code, § 1124.05) (Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997; Ord. 793, passed 01-30-
2008)
§ 160.400 PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Conditional use permit requirements. Applicants proposing to erect
wireless telecommunication towers and/or antennas that require a conditional
use permit (CUP) as outlined in §
160.397(B) of this chapter, shall provide at the time of application the
following information:
      (1)   A notarized document from the property owner or lessor that allows
the applicant to apply for a CUP and building permit to erect a wireless
telecommunication tower and/or antenna;
      (2)   Demonstration of need, in accordance with §
160.400(C) of this chapter;
      (3)   A site plan which shows property lines, location of wireless
telecommunication tower or antennas, setback distances, any accessory equipment
structure, fencing and landscaping proposed;
      (4)   Sufficient information to show that construction, installation and
maintenance of the wireless telecommunication tower and/or antenna will not
create a safety hazard or damage to the property of other persons;
      (5)   Proof of insurance, in accordance with division (D) below; and
      (6)   Any other information necessary for the city to evaluate the CUP.
   (B)   Building permits.
      (1)   Applicants proposing to erect wireless telecommunication towers
and/or antennas shall obtain a building permit. The towers and antennas are
subject to inspection by the city’s Building Official to determine compliance
with State Building Code construction standards. No building permit shall be
issued by the city without prior approval of a CUP by the City Council if
applicable. When no CUP is required, the applicant shall provide to the city
all information as required by division (A) above at the time of application
for building permits, in addition to that required by this division (B)(1).
Building permits shall not be required for the repair, replacement, adjustment
and/or alteration of the elements of antenna arrays if the work does not reduce
acceptable safety standards.
      (2)   A report and plan from a qualified and registered engineer or firm
that specifies and includes the following:
         (a)   The tower height and design including a cross-section and
elevation;
         (b)   The height above grade for all potential mounting positions for
co-located antennas and the minimum separation distances between antennas;
         (c)   The capacity of the tower, including the number and type of
antennas that the tower can accommodate;
         (d)   The steps that the applicant will take to avoid interference
with established public safety telecommunications; and
         (e)   An engineer’s stamp and registration number.
   (C)   Demonstration of need. The applicant shall provide a diagram showing
the cell site configuration illustrating the coverage area of the proposed
wireless telecommunication tower and/or antennas. This diagram shall
demonstrate the frequency re-use and spacing needs of the wireless system in
order to provide adequate coverage and capacity to areas that cannot be
adequately served by locating the antenna on an existing structure.
   (D)   Proof of insurance. The applicant shall provide the city with proof of
liability insurance which protects against losses due to personal injury or
property damage resulting from the construction or collapse of the tower,
antennas or accessory equipment. The proof shall be supplied to the city by the
wireless telecommunication tower owner or lessee at the time of application and
shall be made available to the city from time to time upon its request.
   (E)   Removal of abandoned or damaged towers. Any wireless telecommunication
tower and/or antennas that is not used for one year shall be deemed abandoned
and the property owner shall remove the tower and/or antennas in the same
manner and pursuant to the same procedures as for dangerous or unsafe
structures established by M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26, as they may be amended
from time to time. If the owner fails to remove the tower and/or antenna after
one year, it may be removed by the city with the costs of the removal assessed
against the property owner of the tower site.
   (F)   Violations. Deviations from the approved construction plans and CUP is
a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1124.06) (Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.401 NON-CONFORMING WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION ANTENNAS AND TOWERS.
   Wireless telecommunication antennas and towers in existence as of the date
of enactment of this chapter that do not meet or comply with the provisions of
this chapter are subject to the following.
   (A)   Existing towers may continue in use for their existing purpose, but
may not be replaced or structurally altered to an extent exceeding 10% of the
tower’s fair market value, as determined by the city, without meeting all
standards in this chapter. In no event shall any alteration have the effect of
increasing or intensifying the level or extent of a tower’s non-conformity.
Alterations shall be subject to §
160.400(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   If the tower is damaged or destroyed to the extent of 50% or more of
its fair market value, as determined by the city, due to any reason or cause
whatsoever, the owner of the tower may choose to rebuild or remove the tower.
In either case, the tower owner shall have one year in which to obtain a
building permit from the city and to complete the necessary work. If the owner
chooses to rebuild the tower, the tower as reconstructed shall conform to all
current and applicable regulations as specified by this code. If a tower is
damaged to an extent of less than 50% of its fair market value, the tower owner
shall have one year in which to obtain a building permit from the city and to
repair or restore the tower to its former size, height and use. The location
and physical dimensions shall remain as they were prior to the damage or
destruction. If the tower is not repaired or restored within one year from the
date of the damage, the ability to repair or restore the tower shall lapse and
may not be exercised, upon which time the tower shall be deemed abandoned.
   (C)   Any tower and/or antenna that is not used for one year shall be deemed
abandoned and the property owner shall remove the tower and/or antennas in the
same manner and pursuant to the same procedures as for dangerous or unsafe
structures established by M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26, as they may be amended
from time to time. If the owner fails to remove the tower and/or antenna after
one year, it may be removed by the city with the costs of the removal assessed
against the owner of the tower site.
(Prior Code, § 1124.07) (Ord. 588, passed 02-10-1997)
TREE PRESERVATION AND LANDSCAPING
§ 160.415 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to identify trees and woodlots which are
to be preserved in general and saved when development is occurring or at any
point thereafter. It is the city’s goal to ensure that development is
compatible with the natural environment and is accommodated without destroying
desirable environmental features and natural amenities. It is not the city’s
intent, however, to preserve significant trees or woodlots where substandard
subdivision design, poor drainage, excess slope in streets and driveways or
inefficient utility construction would result.
(Prior Code, § 1127.01)
§ 160.416 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIP LINE. The imaginary line at the outer edge of a tree or shrub, the
point where water would drip to the ground from the outermost branches or
leaves.
   HIGH VALUE TREES. Any tree from the list below:
      (1)   Birches (River and Paper);
      (2)   Black Walnut;
      (3)   Catalpa;
      (4)   Cherry;
      (5)   All Firs;
      (6)   Flowering Crabapples and Hawthorns;
      (7)   Hackberry;
      (8)   Hybrid American Elm;
      (9)   Ironwood;
      (10)   Japanese Tree Lilac;
      (11)   All Lindens;
      (12)   All Maples;
      (13)   All Oaks;
      (14)   Ohio Buckeye;
      (15)   Pines (except Jack); and
      (16)   All Spruce.
   ROOT ZONE. The area of effective tree rooting (out to the extent of the
branches, plus five feet).
   SIGNIFICANT TREE. Any live healthy high value tree measuring eight inches in
diameter or greater, measured at four and one-half feet above the ground.
   SPECIMEN TREE. Any high value tree over 16 inches in diameter, or any other
species over 30 inches in diameter.
   TREE CROWN. The upper part of a tree, including the branches and leaves.
   WOODLOT. An area of trees of significant or specimen size on at least 25% of
the total lot area.
(Prior Code, § 1127.02)
§ 160.417 GENERAL TREE PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. Developers, landowners and builders shall attempt to preserve
the maximum number of significant and specimen trees on lots as possible by
using creative design techniques for the location of structures and other
improvements within property boundaries.
   (B)   Preservation standards.
      (1)   Structures and other amenities shall be located in such a manner
that the optimum number of trees shall be preserved.
      (2)   Prior to the granting of a permit, the person requesting the permit
shall demonstrate that there are no feasible or prudent alternatives to the
removal of significant or specimen trees on the site.
      (3)   Forestation, reforestation or landscaping shall utilize a variety
of tree species and shall not utilize any species presently under disease
epidemic.
      (4)   Development including grading and contouring shall take place in
such a manner that the root zone, as defined in §
160.416 of this chapter, of existing trees shall not be affected.
(Prior Code, § 1127.03)
§ 160.418 TREE REMOVAL ON LOTS WITH CONSTRUCTION OR GRADING ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Tree plan required.
      (1)   A tree plan, which would include a tree inventory, prepared by an
arborist, landscape architect or forester, shall be submitted for any project
in which any trees will be impacted as a result of the project. Tree
inventories shall identify existing healthy significant trees, specimen trees,
woodlots and smaller groups of non-significant trees within the limits of the
proposed project area. The inventory should clearly indicate which trees would
be lost as a result of the project and which trees would be saved. The tree
inventory shall be submitted at the same time as any other required application
submittals. This requirement may be waived at the discretion of the Community
Development Director and the City Forester.
      (2)   Parcels in the R-1, Single Family Residential Zoning District are
exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Replacement standards. Replacement tree species shall be approved by
the City Forester in accordance with §
160.419 of this chapter.
      (1)   No additional plantings shall be required on lots less than one
acre where five or more replacement and high value trees over eight inches in
diameter would remain, or on lots one acre or larger where ten or more
replacement and high value trees over eight inches in diameter would remain.
For every significant tree removed, the permit holder or property owner shall
plant a new tree on a one-to-one replacement basis, up to a maximum of five new
trees.
      (2)   For every specimen tree removed, the permit holder or property
owner shall plant a minimum of two new trees, up to a maximum of five new
trees.
      (3)   Replacement trees shall be planted no later than 12 months beyond
the date of tree removal. The owner or permit holder shall guarantee the
survival of the replacement trees for two full growing seasons beyond the year
of planting. In cases where replacement cannot occur within the specified
timeframe, an extension may be granted at the discretion of the City Forester
and Community Development Director.
      (4)   The number of required replacement trees may be reduced when deemed
appropriate at the sole discretion of the City Forester based on existing site
conditions.
      (5)   Replacement requirements shall not apply to trees lost as a result
of utility trimming or maintenance, work conducted by or on behalf of a
governmental agency in pursuance of its lawful activities or functions,
disease, storms or other acts of natural occurrence.
   (C)   Protection. Trees within development areas designated for preservation
shall be protected from construction damage by placing a snow fence or flags in
a perimeter five feet beyond the tree’s dripline, within which area no
equipment shall traverse or materials, debris or fill shall be placed.
   (D)   Additional removals. If, through the course of a development activity,
it becomes necessary to remove additional trees beyond what was previously
approved in the tree plan. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to
submit the request to the city in writing, explaining the reasons necessitating
the additional removals, and obtain written approval of the Community
Development Director or designee before proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 1127.04)
§ 160.419 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   General. Applications for development in the R-3, R-4, B-1, B-2, B-3,
B-4, I-1 and PUD Districts shall be accompanied by a detailed landscape plan.
The landscape plan should be developed in accordance with the site plan
submitted for approval.
   (B)   Information. Detailed landscape plans shall include the following
information:
      (1)   General: name and address of developer/owner, name and address of
architect/ designer, date of plan preparation, date and description of all
revisions, name of project or development, scale of plan, north point
indication;
      (2)   Site analysis: boundary lines of property line with dimensions
based upon certified survey, name and alignment of proposed and existing
adjacent on-site streets, location of all proposed buildings, topographic
contours at two-foot contour intervals, location of parking areas, waterbodies,
proposed sidewalks and percentage of site not covered by structures and
impervious surfaces;
      (3)   Landscape data: a planting schedule table shall include symbols,
quantities, common names, botanical names, size of plant materials, root
specifications and special planting instructions;
      (4)    Typical sections and details of fences, retaining walls, berms and
other landscape improvements;
      (5)   Typical sections of landscape islands and planter beds with
identification of materials used;
      (6)   Details of planting beds and foundation plantings;
      (7)   Delineation of both sodded and seeded areas indicated in square
footage; and
      (8)   Where landscape or inorganic materials are used to provide required
screening from adjacent and neighboring properties, a cross-section shall be
provided at a legible scale illustrating the prospective of the site from the
neighboring property and property line elevation.
   (C)   Number of plant materials required. In order to achieve an appropriate
and complete quality landscaping of a site, the following minimum number of
plant materials shall be provided as indicated below:
      (1)   One overstory deciduous shade tree for every 2,000 square feet of
the total building footprint;
      (2)   One coniferous tree for every 2,000 square feet of building or one
coniferous tree for every 200 feet of site perimeter, whichever is greater;
      (3)   One understory shrub for every 300 square feet of building or one
shrub for every 30 feet of site perimeter, whichever is greater;
      (4)   One ornamental tree for every 2,000 square feet of building or one
ornamental tree for every 200 feet of site perimeter, whichever is greater;
      (5)   The number of plant materials required in divisions (C)(1) through
(C)(4) above may be reduced by 15% in each category in the I-1 Districts; and
      (6)   In the event a site plan layout does not have adequate space to
accommodate plant quantities as required herein, such quantities per species
can be reduced, provided that total required height or caliper is maintained.
The Community Development Director and City Forester must approve all changes.
   (D)   Minimum size of plantings and species requirements.
      (1)   Only tree species from high value tree list or other tree species
as approved by the City Forester shall be used;
      (2)   Overstory deciduous: two and one-half inch caliper;
      (3)   Coniferous: six feet in height as measured from grade;
      (4)   Shrubs: 24-inch plant (potted); and
      (5)   Ornamental trees: two-inch caliper.
   (E)   Method of installation. All deciduous and coniferous trees shall be
ball and burlap and staked and guyed per National Nurserymen’s Standards. All
shrubs shall be potted.
   (F)   Use of landscaping for screening. Where natural materials, such as
trees or hedges are approved in lieu of the required screening by means of
walls or fences, density and species of planting shall be such to achieve
screening year round.
   (G)   Maintenance.
      (1)   Property owners shall be responsible for the upkeep of all required
plantings and landscape materials. Upon written notice from the city, a
property owner shall be required to trim broken or damaged tree boughs, remove
fallen trees or storm damaged trees and remove diseased trees as identified by
the City Forester. Uprooted, damaged or diseased tree stumps shall be removed
or ground down below grade.
      (2)   It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to maintain the
boulevard areas between the property and any adjacent street frontage.
(Prior Code, § 1127.05)
§ 160.420 PLAN REVIEW PROCESS.
   All tree inventories, preservation plans and landscape plans shall be
reviewed by the City Forester. The Parks and Recreation and Forestry Commission
may also review such plans at the request of the Community Development Director
or the City Forester. When the plans are required as part of a development
application (such as, development review, conditional use permit, minor or
major subdivision) the Planning Commission and City Council shall have approval
authority. For such plans submitted when no official planning action is
necessary, the Community Development Director and City Forester shall retain
administrative approval authority.
(Prior Code, § 1127.06)
§ 160.421 APPEAL PROCESS.
   Administrative decisions by the City Forester and/or Community Development
Director may be appealed to the City Council. An appeal shall be filed in
writing no more than 14 days following the date of the administrative decision
by the city. The appeal shall be scheduled for consideration by City Council at
the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting which is at least seven days
from the date of the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 1127.07)
RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS
§ 160.435 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote safe, effective and efficient
use of alternative energy sources and systems as the technology becomes
available. The intent is also to establish standards and procedures by which
the installation and operation of these renewable energy systems shall be
governed within the city.
(Prior Code, § 1128.01)
§ 160.436 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system whose primary purpose is
to harvest energy by transforming solar energy into another form of energy or
transferring heat from a collector to another medium using mechanical,
electrical or chemical means.
   BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR SYSTEM. An active solar system that is an integral
part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate mechanical
device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural component
of the building. BUILDING-INTEGRATED SYSTEMS include, but are not limited to,
photovoltaic or hot water solar systems that are contained within roofing
materials, windows, skylights and awnings.
   CLOSED LOOP GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM. A system that circulates a heat
transfer fluid, typically food-grade antifreeze, through pipes or coils buried
beneath the land surface or anchored to the bottom in a body of water.
   FEEDER LINE. Any power line that carries electrical power from one or more
wind turbines or individual transformers associated with an individual wind
turbine to the point of interconnection with the electric power grid. In the
case of interconnection with the high voltage transmission systems, the point
of interconnection shall be the substation serving the WECS.
   GEOTHERMAL ENERGY. Renewable energy generated from the interior of the earth
and used to produce energy for heating buildings or serving building commercial
or industrial processes.
   GROUND MOUNTED PANELS. Free-standing solar panels mounted to the ground by
use of stabilizers or similar apparatus.
   GROUND MOUNTED WECS. Free-standing WECS mounted to the ground with footings
or other apparatus.
   GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM (GSHPS). A system that uses the relatively
constant temperature of the earth or a body of water to provide heating in the
winter and cooling in the summer. System components include closed loops of
pipe, coils or plates; a fluid that absorbs and transfers heat; and a heat pump
unit that processes heat for use or disperses heat for cooling; and an air
distribution system. The energy must be used on-site.
   HEAT TRANSFER FLUID. A non-toxic and food grade fluid such as potable water,
aqueous solutions of propylene glycol not to exceed 20% by weight or aqueous
solutions of potassium acetate not to exceed 20% by weight.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. An active solar energy system that converts solar
energy directly into electricity.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy or wind energy system. RENEWABLE
ENERGY SYSTEMS do not include passive systems that serve a dual function, such
as a greenhouse or window.
   ROOF- OR BUILDING-MOUNTED SES. Solar energy system (panels) that are mounted
to the roof or building using brackets, stands or other apparatus.
   ROOF PITCH. The final exterior slope of a building roof calculated by the
rise over the run. typically, but not exclusively, expressed in twelfths such
as three-twelfths, nine-twelfths, twelve-twelfths.
   SOLAR ACCESS. A view of the sun, from any point on the collector surface
that is not obscured by any vegetation, building or object located on parcels
of land other than the parcel upon which the solar collector is located,
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. standard time on any day of the
year.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, structure or a part of a device or structure for
which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical or electrical energy.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR SURFACE. Any part of a solar collector that absorbs solar
energy for use in the collector’s energy transformation process. COLLECTOR
SURFACE does not include frames, supports and mounting hardware.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY EASEMENT. An easement that limits the height or location, or
both, of permissible development on the burdened land in terms of a structure
or vegetation, or both, for the purpose of providing access for the benefitted
land to wind or sunlight passing over the burdened land.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). An active solar energy system that collects or
stores solar energy and transforms solar energy into another form of energy or
transfers heat from a collector to another medium using mechanical, electrical
or chemical means.
   SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEM. A system that includes a solar collector and a heat
exchanger that heats or preheats water for building heating systems or other
hot water needs, including residential domestic hot water and hot water for
commercial purposes.
   SOLAR MOUNTING DEVICES. Racking, frames or other devices that allow the
mounting of a solar collector onto a roof surface or the ground.
   WECS. A wind energy conversion system which is an electrical generating
facility comprised of one or more wind turbines and accessory facilities,
including, but not limited to, power lines, transformers, substations and
metrological towers that operate by converting the kinetic energy of wind into
electrical energy. The energy must be used on-site with excess energy
distributed into the electrical grid.
   WECS, LARGE. A wind energy conversion system with a capacity over 100 kW.
   WECS, SMALL. A wind energy conversion system with a capacity of up to 100
kW.
   WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. Kinetic energy present in wind motion that can be
converted into electrical energy.
(Prior Code, § 1128.02)
§ 160.437 SOLAR ENERGY SOURCES AND SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Districts. Solar energy systems (SES) shall be allowed as an accessory
use in all zoning districts.
   (B)   General standards.
      (1)   Height.
         (a)   Roof- or building-mounted SES in residential districts shall
extend no more than three feet above the highest surface of the roof, and shall
be setback at least one foot from the exterior perimeter.
         (b)   Roof- or building-mounted SES in commercial or industrial
districts shall not exceed the maximum allowed height in that zoning district.
For purposes for height measurement, solar systems other than building-
integrated solar systems shall be considered to be mechanical equipment and are
restricted consistent with other building-mounted mechanical devices.
         (c)   Ground-mounted SES shall not exceed the height of an allowed
accessory structure within the zoning district when oriented at maximum tilt.
      (2)   Placement.
         (a)   Ground-mounted SES shall be treated as accessory buildings for
the purpose of maximum height, maximum lot area coverage, location and setback
requirements.
         (b)   Ground-mounted SES shall be screened from view to the extent
possible without reducing their efficiency. Screening may include walls, fences
or landscaping.
      (3)   Notification. Prior to the installation of a SES, the operator must
provide evidence showing their regular electrical service provider has been
informed of the customer’s intent to install an interconnected, customer-owned
SES. Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
      (4)   Feeder lines. Any lines accompanying a SES, other than those
attached to on-site structures by leads, shall be buried within the interior of
the subject parcel, unless there are existing lines in the area which the lines
accompanying an SES can be attached.
      (5)   Commercial. All SES shall be limited to the purpose of on-site
energy production, except that any additional energy produced above the total
onsite demand may be sold to the operator’s regular electrical service provider
in accordance with any agreement provided by the same or applicable
legislation.
      (6)   Restrictions on SES limited. No homeowners’ agreement, covenant,
common interest community or other contract between multiple property owners
within a subdivision of the city shall restrict or limit solar systems to a
great extent that city’s renewable energy ordinance.
      (7)   Protection. The city encourages solar access to be protected in all
new subdivisions and allows for existing solar to be protected consistent with
state statutes. Any solar easements filed, must be consistent with M.S. Ch.
500, § 30, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Abandonment. A SES that is allowed to remain in a non-functional or
inoperative state for a period of 12 consecutive months, and which is not
brought in operation within the time specified by the city, shall be presumed
abandoned and may be declared a public nuisance subject to removal at the
expense of the operator.
(Prior Code, § 1128.03)
§ 160.438 GEOTHERMAL ENERGY SOURCES AND SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Districts. Ground source heat pump systems (GSHPS) shall be allowed as
an accessory use in all zoning districts.
   (B)   General standards.
      (1)   All components of GSHPS including pumps, borings and loops shall be
set back at least five feet from all lot lines.
      (2)   Easements. All components of GSHPS shall not encroach on easements.
      (3)   GSHPS are prohibited in surface waters and wetlands.
      (4)   Only closed loop GSHPS utilizing State Department of Health
approved heat transfer fluids are permitted.
   (C)   Abandonment. A GSHPS that is allowed to remain in a non-functional or
inoperative state for a period of 12 consecutive months, and which is not
brought in operation within the time specified by the city, shall be presumed
abandoned and may be declared a public nuisance subject to removal at the
expense of the operator.
(Prior Code, § 1128.04)
§ 160.439 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Districts. Wind energy conversion systems (WECS) shall be allowed with
approval of a conditional use permit in the following zoning districts and land
use designations:
      (1)   Industrial, I-1, or Commercial or Industrial Planned Unit
Development; and
      (2)   In all properties guided as “institutional” in the city’s land use
designations of the Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Ground-mounted WECS.
      (1)   Number.
         (a)   Large WECS. One large WECS shall be permitted on a lot of at
least two acres in size.
         (b)   Small WECS. One small WECS shall be allowed on a single lot of
one to five acres. All other larger parcels will be limited to one small WECS
per five acres of land area.
      (2)   Height.
         (a)   Large WECS shall have a total height, including tower and blade
to its highest point of travel, of no more than 125 feet.
         (b)   Small WECS shall have a total height, including tower and blade
to its highest point of travel, of no more than 60 feet.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Have a minimum setback distance from the base of the monopole of
one times the height from any property line, transmission line, electric
substation or other WECS. This setback requirement from a property line may be
reduced if written permission is granted from the affected property owner; and
         (b)   Have a minimum setback distance from the base of the monopole of
500 feet from any residential zoned property.
      (4)   Negative impacts. Shall not be located between a principal
structure and a public street, unless the city determines that such a location
would lessen the negative impacts of such a WECS on nearby properties.
   (C)   Roof-mounted WECS.
      (1)   Number.
         (a)   Large roof-mounted WECS. The maximum number of large roof-
mounted WECS shall be approved through the conditional use permit process in
accordance with §
160.452 of this chapter.
         (b)   Small roof-mounted WECS. No more than three roof-mounted small
WECS shall be installed on any rooftop.
      (2)   Height.
         (a)   Large roof-mounted WECS. Total height of not more than 25 feet,
measured from the top of the roof to the blade tip at its highest point of
travel.
         (b)   Small roof-mounted WECS. Total height of not more than 25 feet,
measured from the top of the roof to the blade tip at its highest point of
travel.
      (3)   Placement. Roof mounted WECS must be erected above the roof of a
building or structure. The mounts associated with the WECS may extend onto the
side of the building or structure.
   (D)   General standards. The following provisions will apply to all WECS
erected under the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Rotor clearance. Blade arcs created by the WECS shall have a
minimum of 30 feet of clearance over any structure or tree within a 200-foot
radius, and maintain at least 20 feet of clearance between their lowest point
and the ground.
      (2)   Rotor safety. Each WECS shall be equipped with both a manual and
automatic over speed controls to limit the blade rotation within design
specifications.
      (3)   Color and finish. All wind turbines and towers shall be white, gray
or other non-obtrusive color. Finishes shall be matte or non-reflective.
      (4)   Tower access. To prevent unauthorized climbing, WECS towers must
comply with one of the following provisions.
         (a)   Tower climbing apparatus shall not be located within 12 feet of
the ground;
         (b)   A locked anti-climb device shall be installed on the tower; and
         (c)   Towers capable of being climbed shall be enclosed by a locked,
protective fence at least six feet high.
      (5)   Signs. The place of any signs, postings or advertisements shall be
prohibited. WECS shall have a sign posted at the base of the tower and the
shall contain the following information: warning high voltage; manufacturer’s
name; emergency phone number; emergency shutdown procedures.
      (6)   Lighting. WECS shall not have no installed or accessory lighting,
unless required by federal or state regulations.
      (7)   Electromagnetic interference. WECS shall be designed and
constructed so as not to cause radio and television interference.
      (8)   Noise emission. Have a maximum noise production rating of 55 dB (50
dBA) and shall conform to this standard under normal operating conditions as
measured at any property line.
      (9)   Utility company interconnection. Prior to the installation or
erection of a WECS, the operator must provide evidence showing their regular
electrical service provider has been informed of the customer’s intent to
install an interconnected, customer-owned generator. Off-grid systems shall be
exempt from this requirement. All connections shall be underground.
      (10)   Compliance with State Building Code. A standard drawing of the
structural components of the wind energy conversion system and support
structures, including base and footings shall be provided along with
engineering date and calculations to demonstrate compliance with the structural
design provisions of the State Building Code. Drawings and engineering
calculations shall be certified by a registered engineer.
      (11)   Compliance with National Electrical Code. WECS electrical
equipment and connection shall be designed and installed in adherence to the
National Electrical Code.
      (12)   Inspection. The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any
WECS conditional use permit to inspect the premises on which the WECS is
located. If a WECS is not maintained in operational conditions and poses a
potential safety hazard, the owner shall take expeditious action to correct the
situation.
   (E)   Submittal requirements.
      (1)   Site plan drawing. All applications for a WECS conditional use
permit shall be accompanied by a detailed certified survey/site plan drawn to
scale and dimensioned, displaying the following information:
         (a)   Lot lines and dimensions;
         (b)   Location and height of all buildings, structures, aboveground
utilities and trees on the lot, including both existing and proposed structures
and guy wire anchors;
         (c)   Location and height of all adjacent buildings, structures and
aboveground utilities and trees located within 350 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the property in question;
         (d)   An elevation drawing of the premises accurately depicting the
proposed WECS and its relationship to structures on the subject site and
adjacent lots; and
         (e)   Existing and proposed setbacks of all structures located on the
property in question.
      (2)   Additional submittal requirements. In addition to the information
required elsewhere in this ordinance, development applications for WECS shall
include the following supplemental information:
         (a)   A significant tree plan in conformance with §
160.418(A) of this chapter, showing the loss of significant trees within the
construction area for the WECS;
         (b)   A letter or copy of the review response from the Federal
Aviation Administration concerning the development application and their
requirements for warning devices, height restrictions and the like;
         (c)   The technical specifications for the WECS including, but not
limited to, the type, height, blade length, operating parameters, the
anticipated sound level and the property line, and lighting protection; and
         (d)   Clearance distance between the farthest extensions of the WECS
blades to the property lines.
   (F)   Criteria for approval. The Planning Commission may recommend and the
City Council may impose such conditions on the granting of a WECS conditional
use permit as may be necessary to carry out the purpose and provisions of this
division (F). The Council must consider the following criteria in determining
whether to grant or deny a conditional use permit for a wind energy conversion
system (WECS):
      (1)   The proposed WECS compliance with the standards described in this
subdivision;
      (2)   The potential for the WECS to cause a condition that may pose an
unreasonable threat or cause unreasonable damage to any other property or
person; and
      (3)   The proposed WECS impact on the environment and on the visual image
of the surrounding area.
   (G)   Abandonment. A WECS that is allowed to remain in a non-functional or
inoperative state for a period of 12 consecutive months, and which is not
brought in operation within the time specified by the city, shall be presumed
abandoned and may be declared a public nuisance subject to removal at the
expense of the operator.
(Prior Code, § 1128.05) (Ord. 883, passed 09-09-2013)
AMENDMENTS AND CONDITIONAL USES
§ 160.450 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Request for amendments. Request for amendments of this chapter, the
official zoning map or conditional use permits, as provided within this
chapter, shall be filed with the City Administrator on an official application
form. The application shall also be accompanied by ten copies of detailed
written and graphic materials fully explaining the proposed change, development
or use. The City Administrator shall refer the application, along with all
related information, to the Planning and Zoning Commission for consideration
and a report and recommendation to the City Council.
   (B)   Planning and Zoning Commission consideration. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall consider the request at its next regular meeting unless the
filing date falls within 15 days of the meeting, in which case, the request
would be placed on the agenda and considered at the regular meeting following
the next regular meeting. The City Administrator shall refer the application,
along with all related information, to the City Planning and Zoning Commission
at least ten days prior to the regular meeting.
   (C)   Appearance by applicant. The applicant or a representative thereof
shall appear before the Planning and Zoning Commission in order to answer
questions concerning the proposed amendment or conditional use.
   (D)   Report and recommendation. The amendment or conditional use
application shall be referred to the city staff for a report and recommendation
to be presented to the Commission. A preliminary draft to the city staff’s
report and recommendations shall be given to the city’s Planning and Zoning
Commission at least ten days prior to the meeting at which the report and
recommendations are to be presented. The final report and recommendations of
the city staff are to be entered in and made part of the permanent written
record of the Planning and Zoning Commission meeting.
   (E)   Adverse effects. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider
possible adverse effects of the proposed amendment or conditional use. Its
judgment shall be based upon (but not limited to) the following factors:
      (1)   Relationship to Municipal Compre- hensive Plan;
      (2)   The geographical area involved;
      (3)   Whether the use will tend to or actually depreciate the area in
which it is proposed;
      (4)   The character of the surrounding area; and
      (5)   The demonstrated need for the use.
   (F)   Additional information. The Planning and Zoning Commission and city
staff shall have the authority to request additional information from the
applicant concerning operational factors or to retain expert testimony with the
consent and at the expense of the applicant concerning operational factors, the
information to be declared necessary to establish performance conditions in
relation to all pertinent sections of this chapter.
   (G)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall make a finding of fact and
recommend such actions or conditions relating to the request as it deems
necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter. The
recommendation shall be in writing and accompanied by the report and
recommendation of the city staff.
      (2)   The City Council shall not grant a conditional use permit until it
has received a report and recommendation from the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the city staff or until 60 days after the first regular Planning
and Zoning Commission meeting at which the request was considered.
   (H)   City Council agenda.
      (1)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning and
Zoning Commission and the city staff, the City Council shall place the report
and recommendation on the agenda for the next regular meeting.
      (2)   The reports and recommendations shall be entered in and made part
of the permanent written record of the City Council meeting.
   (I)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the city staff, the City Council shall hold
a public hearing in compliance with M.S. § 462.357, subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time, and shall make a recorded finding of fact and shall
impose any conditions it considers necessary to protect the public health,
safety and welfare.
   (J)   Four-fifths vote.
      (1)   Amendments to the official zoning map that change all or part of an
existing residential zoning district to commercial shall require passage by a
simple majority.
      (2)   All other amendments to this chapter, to the official zoning map or
for a conditional use permit shall require passage by a three-fifths vote of
the full City Council.
   (K)   Notification of decision. The City Administrator shall notify the
applicant of the Council’s decision, in writing.
(Prior Code, § 1125.01) (Ord. 837, passed 11-19-2009; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-
2010; Ord. 970, passed 01-13-2020)
§ 160.451 INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council or Planning and Zoning Commission may, upon its own
motion, initiate a request to amend this chapter or the official zoning map.
   (B)   Any person owning real estate within the city may initiate a request
to amend this chapter or the official zoning map as it affects the real estate
owned by the person.
(Prior Code, § 1125.01)
§ 160.452 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a conditional use permit is to provide the
city with a reasonable degree of discretion in determining the suitability of
certain designated uses upon the general welfare, public health and safety.
   (B)   Criteria for granting conditional use permits. In granting a
conditional use permit, the City Council shall consider the advice and
recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the effect of the
proposed use on the Comprehensive Plan and upon the health, safety and general
welfare of occupants of surrounding lands. Among other things, the City Council
shall make the following findings, where applicable.
      (1)   The use will not create an excessive burden on existing parks,
schools, streets and other public facilities and utilities which serve or are
proposed to serve the area;
      (2)   The use will be sufficiently compatible or separated by distance or
screening from adjacent residentially zoned or used land so that existing homes
will not be depreciated in value and there will be no deterrence to development
of vacant land;
      (3)   The structure and site shall have an appearance that will not have
an adverse effect upon adjacent residential properties;
      (4)   The use, in the opinion of the City Council, is reasonably related
to the overall needs of the city and to the existing land use;
      (5)   The use is consistent with the purposes of this chapter and the
purposes of the zoning district in which the applicant intends to locate the
proposed use;
      (6)   The use is not in conflict with the Comprehensive Plan of the city;
      (7)   The use will not cause traffic hazards or congestion; and
      (8)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and necessary facilities
have been or will be provided.
   (C)   Additional conditions. In permitting a new conditional use or the
alteration of an existing conditional use, the City Council may impose, in
addition to these standards and requirements expressly specified by this
chapter, additional conditions which the City Council considers necessary to
protect the best interest of the surrounding area or the community as a whole.
These conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Increasing the required lot size or yard dimension;
      (2)   Limiting the height, size or location of buildings;
      (3)   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
      (4)   Increasing the street width;
      (5)   Increasing the number of required off-street parking spaces;
      (6)   Limiting the number, size, location or lighting of signs;
      (7)   Requiring diking, fencing, screening, landscaping or other
facilities to protect adjacent and nearby property; and
      (8)   Designating sites for open space.
   (D)   Records kept. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all
conditional use permits issued, including information on the use, location and
conditions imposed by the City Council, time limits, review dates and other
information as may be appropriate.
   (E)   Reconsideration. Whenever an application for a conditional use permit
has been considered and denied by the City Council, a similar application for a
conditional use permit affecting substantially the same property shall not be
considered again by the Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council for at
least six months from the date of its denial and a subsequent application
affecting substantially the same property shall likewise not be considered
again by the Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council for an additional
six months from the date of the second denial unless a decision to reconsider
the matter is made by not less than four-fifths vote of the City Council.
   (F)   Lapse of conditional use permit by non-use. Whenever, within one year
after granting a conditional use permit, the work as permitted by the permit
shall not have been completed, then the permit shall become null and void
unless a petition for extension of time in which to complete the work has been
granted by the City Council. The extension shall be requested, in writing, and
filed with the City Administrator at least 30 days before the expiration of the
original conditional use permit. There shall be no charge for the filing of the
petition. The request for extension shall state facts showing a good faith
attempt to complete the work permitted in the conditional use permit. The
petition shall be presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission for a
recommendation and to the City Council for a decision.
   (G)   Performance bond.
      (1)   Upon approval of a conditional use permit, the city shall be
provided with a surety bond, cash escrow, certificate of deposit, securities or
cash deposit prior to the issuing of building permits or initiation of work on
the proposed improvements or development. The security shall guarantee
conformance and compliance with the conditions of the conditional use permit
and the code of the city.
      (2)   The security shall be in the amount of the Director of Public
Works/Parks and Recreation’s or City Building Inspector’s estimated costs of
labor and materials for the proposed improvements or development. The project
can be handled in stages upon the discretion of the Director of Public Works/
Parks and Recreation and Building Inspector.
      (3)   The city shall hold the security until completion of the proposed
improvements or development and a certificate of occupancy indicating
compliance with the conditional use permit and codes of the city has been
issued by the city’s Building Inspector.
      (4)   Failure to comply with the conditions of the conditional use permit
and/or the codes of the city shall result in forfeiture of the security.
(Prior Code, § 1125.01) (Ord. 844, passed 10-20-2010)
VARIANCES AND APPEALS
§ 160.465 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Composition. The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall consist of all
members of the Planning and Zoning Commission. All members shall serve without
compensation.
   (B)   Organization and meetings. The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may
elect a chairperson from among its appointed members for a term of one year,
and the Board may create and fill such other offices as it may determine. The
Board shall meet by order of its chairperson, after notice, whenever an appeal
has been properly presented to it. A two-thirds’ vote of a properly convened
Board meeting shall be required to grant the relief sought in the appeal.
   (C)   Records. All written reports and recommendations to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals from the city staff shall be entered in and made part of
the permanent written record of the Board’s meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1125.02)
§ 160.466 CRITERIA FOR GRANTING VARIANCES.
   (A)   A variance to the provisions of this chapter may be issued by the
Board of Adjustment and Appeals, or in the case of an administrative variance,
by the Director of Community Development as explained in §
160.470 of this chapter, to provide relief to the landowner in those cases
where the code imposes practical difficulties to the property owner in the use
of property owner’s land. Practical difficulties include, but are not limited
to, inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems. No variances
shall be granted that would allow any use that is not allowed in the zoning
district in which the subject property is located.
   (B)   A variance may be granted only in the event that all of the following
circumstances exist:
      (1)   The variance is in harmony with the general purposes and intent of
this chapter;
      (2)   The variance is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   The applicant proposes to use the property in a reasonable manner
not permitted by this chapter or the city code;
      (4)   Unique circumstances apply to the property which do not apply to
other properties in the same zone or vicinity and result from lot size or
shape, topography or other circumstances over which the owner of the property
since the enactment of this chapter has had no control. The unique
circumstances do not result from the actions of the applicant;
      (5)   The variance does not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood;
      (6)   The variance requested is the minimum variance which would
alleviate the practical difficulties. Economic conditions alone do not
constitute practical difficulties; and
      (7)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may impose such conditions upon
the premises benefitted by a variance as may be necessary to comply with the
standards established by this chapter or to reduce or minimize the effect of
the variance upon other properties in the neighborhood and to better carry out
the intent of the variance. The condition must be directly related to and must
bear a rough proportionality to the impact created by the variance.
(Prior Code, § 1125.02) (Ord. 725, passed 02-09-2004; Ord. 861, passed 09-22-
2011)
§ 160.467 APPEALS.
   If the Board acts in favor of the appellant, it, thereupon, shall issue an
order to the administrative official involved setting forth the terms and
conditions adopted. The order shall be signed by the chairman and the City
Administrator or secretary of the Board. If the Board denies the applicant’s
relief, the applicant, within 60 days from the decision of the Board, may
appeal to the City Council for the relief sought.
(Prior Code, § 1125.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 160.468 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Requests for a variance or appeal shall be filed with the City
Administrator on an official application form. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee as outlined in §
160.013 of this chapter. This fee shall not be refunded. The application shall
also be accompanied by ten copies of detailed written and graphic materials
necessary for the explanation of the request.
   (B)   Upon receiving the application, the City Administrator shall refer the
application, along with all related information, to the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals and city staff.
   (C)   After receiving the city staff’s report and recommendations concerning
a request for variance or an appeal, the Planning and Zoning Commission,
serving as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals, may set a date and hold a
hearing on the request. The Board shall hear such persons as wish to be heard,
either in person or by agent or attorney. Notice of any such hearing shall be
mailed not less than ten days before the date of hearing to the person who
filed the appeal or request, to all owners of property, according to the city
assessment records, within 350 feet of the property to which the variance
relates.
   (D)   Failure of property owner to receive notice shall not invalidate any
such proceedings as set forth within this chapter.
   (E)   The Planning and Zoning Commission, serving as the Board of Adjustment
and Appeals, shall make a finding of fact and shall decide whether to approve
or deny a request for a variance or an appeal within 30 days after the public
hearing on the request.
   (F)   A variance of this chapter or the granting of an appeal shall be by a
simple majority vote of the Planning and Zoning Commission serving as the Board
of Adjustment and Appeals.
   (G)   The City Administrator shall notify the originator of the variance
request or appeal of the Board of Adjustment and Appeals decision in writing.
(Prior Code, § 1125.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 970, passed 01-13-
2020)
§ 160.469 LAPSE OF VARIANCE OR APPEAL.
   Whenever, within one year after granting a variance or appeal, the work as
permitted by the variance or appeal shall not have been completed, then the
variance or appeal shall become null and void unless a petition for extension
of time in which to complete the work has been granted by the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals, the extension shall be requested, in writing, and filed
with the City Administrator at least 30 days before the expiration of the
original variance or appeal. There shall be no charge for the filing of such
petition. The request for extension shall state facts, showing a good faith
attempt to complete the work permitted in the variance or appeal.
(Prior Code, § 1125.02) (Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 160.470 ADMINISTRATIVE VARIANCE PROCESS.
   (A)   Types. Property owners seeking relief from this chapter may request an
administrative variance; provided that, the property is zoned R-1 or R-2 and
either of the following is applicable:
      (1)   The request concerns setbacks; the variance amount is within 25% of
code requirements; and approval of the variance does not result in a setback of
less than five feet; and
      (2)   The request is related to a pre-existing, non-conforming driveway
or curb cut.
   (B)   Review procedures. The Director of Community Development will review
administrative variance requests. In order to be approved, the variance request
must meet the criteria as stated in §
160.466 of this chapter. If all of the criteria are met and approval is
granted, the adjacent property owners must be notified by mail of the
preliminary approval and allowed ten days to respond to the decision. Absent
any opposition from adjacent property owners, the Planning Commission shall
review the administrative variance request at the following regularly scheduled
meeting.
   (C)   Denial and appeals. If the Director chooses to deny a request, or if
either the adjacent neighbors or the Planning Commission disagrees with
administrative approval of a variance request, the request is denied
administratively and the applicant may choose to request a formal variance from
the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Fees. Administrative variances fees are set according to the city’s
approved fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 1125.02) (Ord. 725, passed 02-09-2004; Ord. 752, passed 09-13-
2004; Ord. 756, passed 01-24-2005; Ord. 861, passed 09-22-2011)
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
§ 160.485 APPLICATION.
   A certificate of occupancy shall be obtained before:
   (A)   Any building hereafter erected or structurally altered is occupied or
used; and
   (B)   The use of any such building is altered.
(Prior Code, § 1125.03)
§ 160.486 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy shall be issued after the Building
Inspector has found that the erection or alteration of the building or part
thereof has been completed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter
and all applicable building codes.
   (B)   Pending the issuance of such a certificate, the Building Inspector may
issue a temporary certificate of occupancy for a period not exceeding six
months during the completion of the erection or alteration of the building. The
temporary certificate shall be issued only upon submission of satisfactory
assurance to the Building Inspector that the erection or alteration work shall
be completed within six months. The temporary certificate shall not be
construed as in any way altering the respective rights, duties or obligations
of the owners or of the city relating to the use or the occupancy of the
premises or any other matter, except under such restrictions and provisions as
will adequately ensure the safety of the occupants.
(Prior Code, § 1125.03)
§ 160.487 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Applications for any kind of building permit shall contain such information
as may be deemed necessary for the proper enforcement of the chapter. The
Building Inspector shall issue the building permit only after determining that
the building plans, together with the application, comply with the terms of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1125.03)
WATERSHED DISTRICT RULES ADOPTED
§ 160.500 RULES ADOPTED.
   (A)   Stormwater management plans. The city hereby adopts by reference, and
as may be amended, the Rice Creek Watershed District Rule C related to
stormwater management plans. Applications related to stormwater management
plans will be reviewed by the local governing unit (“LGU”) in accordance with
the Rice Creek Watershed District Rule C.
   (B)   Erosion and sediment control. The city hereby adopts by reference, and
as may be amended, the Rice Creek Watershed District Rule D related to erosion
and sediment control. Applications related to the modification or alteration of
erosion sediment control will be reviewed by the LGU in accordance with Rice
Creek Watershed District Rule D.
   (C)   Floodplain alteration. The city hereby adopts by reference, and as may
be amended, the Rice Creek Watershed District Rule E related to floodplain
alteration. Applications related to the modification or alteration of
floodplains will be reviewed by the LGU in accordance with Rice Creek Watershed
District Rule E.
(Ord. 973, passed 11-23-2020)
§ 160.501 INCORPORATION; CONFLICTS.
   The Rice Creek Watershed District Rules C, D, E, and F, as may be amended
from time to time, and which are expressly adopted in §
160.500 above, shall be made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth
herein. In the event of a conflict between a provision of this chapter,
including any provision contained in the Rice Creek Watershed District Rules
expressly adopted herein, and any other preview in the city code, the more
restrictive standard or provision shall prevail.
(Ord. 973, passed 11-23-2020)
§ 160.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished and fined as
provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Each day a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1125.06)
   (B)   Except as provided herein, no significant or specimen tree shall be
removed from any property in the city. Any violation of any provision of §§
160.415 through
160.421 of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor offense. Property owners
or permit holders having been cited for illegal tree removal may be fined for
each significant or specimen tree illegally removed. In addition to the
punishment specified in this division (B), the city may enforce this code by
any other appropriate form of action which could include withholding a
certificate of occupancy, forfeiture of all or part of a bond, escrow or
financial guarantee and stoppage of the project.
(Prior Code, § 1127.08) (Ord. 838, passed 11-19-2009)
CHAPTER 161: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
161.001   General intent
   
161.002   Purpose
   
161.003   Scope of regulations
   
161.004   Severability
   
161.005   Substitution provision
   
161.006   Definitions
   
161.007   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
161.008   Sign variances
Permit and License Requirements
   
161.020   Permits required; exceptions
   
161.021   Permit application
   
161.022   Permit fees; waivers
   
161.023   Issuance of permit; review process and conditions
   
161.024   Sign installer’s license
Conditions and Regulations
   
161.035   Maintenance of premises
   
161.036   Sign maintenance, repair, permits and inspections
   
161.037   General location, design and construction standards
   
161.038   Specific sign type standards and requirements
   
161.039   Miscellaneous signage requirements and provisions
   
161.040   Prohibited signs
   
161.041   Non-conforming signs
 
   
161.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 161.001 GENERAL INTENT.
   In order to preserve Mounds View as a desirable city to live and to do
business in, having a pleasing and visually attractive urban environment is
important. The regulation of signs is an important means to help achieve the
desired results of the city. As such, the city has prepared these sign
regulations to enhance the urban environment and to promote the well-being of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 1008.005) (Ord. 816, passed 01-22-2009)
§ 161.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is intended to establish a comprehensive and balanced
system of sign control that accommodates the need for a well-maintained, safe
and attractive community, and the need for effective communications including
business identification. The city finds it is necessary for the promotion and
preservation of the public health, safety, welfare, image and aesthetics of the
community that the construction, location, size and maintenance of signs be
controlled.
   (B)   Further, the city finds that:
      (1)   Permanent and temporary signs have a direct impact on and
relationship to the image and aesthetics of the city;
      (2)   The manner of installation, location and maintenance of signs
affects the public health, safety, welfare and aesthetics of the city;
      (3)   An opportunity for viable identification of residences, businesses
and institutions in the city must be established;
      (4)   The safety of motorists, cyclists, pedestrians and other users of
public streets and property is affected by the number, size, location and
appearance of signs that create hazards for drivers and unduly divert the
attention of drivers;
      (5)   Installation of signs suspended from, projecting over or placed on
the tops of buildings, walks or other structures may constitute a hazard during
periods of high winds and an obstacle to effective firefighting and other
emergency service;
      (6)   Uncontrolled and unlimited signs and sign types, particularly
moving signs and signs with dynamic displays, adversely impact the image and
aesthetic attractiveness of the city and thereby undermine economic value and
growth;
      (7)   Uncontrolled and unlimited signs, particularly temporary signs
which are commonly located within or adjacent to public right-of-way or are
located at driveway/street intersections, result in roadside clutter and
obstruction of views of oncoming traffic. This creates a hazard to drivers and
pedestrians and also adversely impacts a logical flow of information;
      (8)   Signs are generally incompatible with residential uses and should
be strictly limited in residential zoning districts; and
      (9)   The right to express opinions in any zoning district must be
protected, subject to reasonable restrictions on size, height, location and
number.
   (C)   The city does not intend to, nor does it propose to, regulate the
message on any sign.
   (D)   The city intends to protect the public from the dangers of unsafe
signs.
(Prior Code, § 1008.01) (Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001; Ord. 769, passed 05-08-
2006; Ord. 816, passed 01-22-2009)
§ 161.003 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The sign regulations established in this chapter shall apply to all
structures and all land uses. This chapter describes the sign standards for all
the zoning districts of the city. The city establishes specific additional
regulations for signs that are unique in purpose and not easily addressed by
district regulations. No person, property owner or lessee shall place, erect,
alter, modify, enhance or change a sign in any way that does not meet the
requirements of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1008.011) (Ord. 816, passed 01-22-2009) Penalty, see §
161.999
§ 161.004 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or other part of this
chapter is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the validity or
enforceability of the rest of this chapter. The City Council hereby declares
that it would have adopted the chapter in each section, division, sentence or
phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
divisions, sentences, clauses or phrases are declared invalid.
(Prior Code, § 1008.012) (Ord. 816, passed 01-22-2009)
§ 161.005 SUBSTITUTION PROVISION.
   The owner or operator of any sign that this chapter would otherwise allow
may substitute a non-commercial sign in lieu of any other commercial or non-
commercial sign. The owner may make this substitution without any additional
city approval or permit. The purpose of this provision is to prevent any
inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over non-commercial speech, or the
favoring of any particular non-commercial message over any other non-commercial
message. This provision shall prevail over any more specific provision to the
contrary.
(Prior Code, § 1008.013) (Ord. 816, passed 01-22-2009)
§ 161.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign that becomes vacant, unoccupied or unused; or a sign
promoting a business or activity no longer in operation or incorrectly or
inaccurately conveying a message, or a sign promoting an obsolete message or
sign copy, for a period in excess of one month.
   ANIMATED SIGN. A sign that has any moving or rotating part; or uses movement
or change of lighting to depict action or create a special effect or scene, but
is not a dynamic display sign. Refer also to ELECTRONIC SCROLLING MESSAGE OR
MARQUEE SIGNS.
   AREA IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A free- standing sign which identifies the name of
a community, neighborhood, a residential subdivision, a multi-family
residential complex consisting of three or more structures, a planned unit
development or any combination of the above located on contiguous properties.
   AWNING SIGN. A sign displayed on or attached flat against the surface or
surfaces of an awning attached to or extending from a building.
   BANNER. Any sign of lightweight, flexible material affixed to a building,
poles, vehicle or other supporting structures upon which a message, slogan,
design or logo is displayed. National, state or municipal flags shall not be
considered a BANNER.
   BEACON. Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more points not on the same lot as the light source; also,
any light with one or more beams that rotate or move. Otherwise known as
SEARCHLIGHTS. For the purposes of this section, BEACONS or SEARCHLIGHTS shall
be considered temporary signs.
   BENCH SIGNS. A sign which is affixed to a bench or shelter at a bus stop.
   BILLBOARD. A large, outdoor advertising structure typically mounted on one
or more poles, located off the site or premises where the advertised product is
sold, available or offered.
   BUSINESS SIGN. A sign that states the proper name of the business,
organization or institution located on the premises on which the sign is
located.
   CANOPY SIGN. A sign affixed to the visible surface of an attached or free-
standing canopy structure, often backlit to provide internal illumination. For
the purposes of sign area computation, CANOPY SIGNS shall be treated as a wall
sign.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged electronically or manually
without altering the face or the surface of the sign, but is not a dynamic
display. A sign on which the message changes more than eight times a day shall
be considered an animated sign for the purposes of this section. The portion of
a sign on which the only copy that changes is an indication of the time and
temperature shall be considered a public informational sign. PORTABLE OR NON-
PERMANENT CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS shall, for the purposes of this chapter, be
considered temporary signs.
   COMMERCIAL SIGN. A sign advertising a business, profession, commodity,
service or entertainment.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A sign placed at a construction site identifying the
project and/or names of the architect, engineers, developers, contractors or
other individuals or firms associated with the project.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign for the purpose of making specific commercial,
industrial or public and semi-public locations known and to assist in finding
these locations on the property where the sign is located. Such signs may be
located within street rights-of-way subject to approval of the city and
appropriate governmental agency.
   DYNAMIC DISPLAY. Any characteristics of a sign that appear to have movement
or that appear to change, caused by any method other than physically removing
and replacing the sign or its components, whether the apparent movement or
change is in the display, the sign structure itself, or any other component of
the sign. This includes a display that incorporates a technology or method
allowing the sign face to change the image without having to physically or
mechanically replace the sign face or its components. Such technologies or
methods may include, but are not limited to, cathode-ray tube (CRT), light-
emitting diode (LED) displays, plasma displays, liquid-crystal displays (LCD)
or other technologies used in commercially available televisions or in computer
or video monitors. This also includes any rotating, revolving, moving,
flashing, blinking or animated display or structural element and any display
that incorporates rotating panels, LED lights manipulated through digital
input, “digital ink” or any other method or technology that allows the sign
face to present a series of images or displays. Signs with this technology that
a government or public agency installs for directing or regulating pedestrian
or motor vehicle movement are exempt from this definition.
   FLAG OR PENNANT STRINGERS. A series of flags, pennants or streamers
connected by a string or a rope. The STRINGERS shall be considered temporary
signs for the purpose of this chapter.
   FLASHING SIGN. A sign or portion thereof whose illumination is characterized
by a repetitive cycle in which the period of illumination is either the same as
or less than the period of non-illumination. For the purposes of this chapter,
FLASHING will not be defined as occurring if the cyclical period between on-off
phases of illumination exceeds four seconds.
   FREE-STANDING SIGN. A sign principally supported by a structure affixed to
the ground, and not supported by a building, including signs supported by one
or more columns, poles or braces placed in or upon the ground. Also referred to
as a GROUND SIGN.
   GOVERNMENT OR REGULATORY SIGN. A sign which is erected by a governmental
unit for identification, traffic control or other regulatory purposes. The
signs are often located within street rights-of-way.
   GRAND OPENING. The commencement of operation of a new business. For purposes
of this chapter, the city considers a GRAND OPENING to occur if there is a
business name change or if there is a change in the type of business or
activity.
   GRAPHIC SIGN. A sculpture attached to or sign painted directly on a wall
that is primarily symbolic or representational in nature and not alpha or
numeric in content or copy.
   GROUND SIGN. A sign principally supported by a structure affixed to the
ground, and not supported by a building, including signs supported by one or
more columns, poles or braces placed in or upon the ground. Also referred to as
a FREE-STANDING SIGN.
   HOME OCCUPATION SIGN. A sign erected upon a residential property to
advertise a home based business or occupation taking place at that location.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign, the primary function of which is to identify a
residential, commercial, industrial or public or semi-public use located upon
the premises where such sign is located or to which such sign is affixed. Signs
identifying commercial uses may call attention to the product, service or
activity that is sold or offered upon the premises. Signs identifying
industrial uses may call attention to the product, goods or material which is
produced, processed, assembled or stored upon the premises.
   ILLEGAL SIGN. A sign erected without a permit or in violation of this
chapter. The signs shall be subject to removal upon written notice by the city.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign that has characters, letters, figures, designs or
outlines that an artificial light source illuminates.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the uses on the property on which it is located. Such signs might
include, but are not limited to, “no parking”, “entrance”, “exit”, “ATM” or
“payphone”. No sign with a message legible off the premises shall be considered
INCIDENTAL.
   INFLATABLE SIGN. A portable device inflated with air or helium used to draw
attention to an activity or business upon which the device is attached. The
object may or may not display advertising copy. For the purposes of this
chapter, INFLATABLE DEVICES shall be considered a temporary sign.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A free-standing sign attached to the ground by means of a
free-standing support structure, solid from grade to the top of the sign
structure, typically encased or supported by masonry materials.
   NON-COMMERCIAL SIGN. A sign disseminating messages not classified as
commercial that include, but are not limited to, messages about political,
religious, social, ideological, public service and information topics.
   NUISANCE SIGN. A sign in a state of disrepair, deterioration or damage
whereupon one-fourth or more of the sign surface is no longer clearly legible
or recognizable at a distance of 40 feet. Also, any sign in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be considered a nuisance sign, except for
legal non-conforming signs.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign related to the property or activity and use
occurring on the property on which the sign is located. ON-PREMISES SIGNS
include multi-tenant identification signs that may advertise tenants on a
different property; provided, the tenants are in the same PUD and the
properties share parking and access.
   POLE SIGN. A free-standing sign supported by or erected upon one or more
narrow columns, shafts or poles. Also referred to as a PYLON SIGN.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs on wheels, signs converted to “A” or “T” frames, menu and
sandwich boards, inflatable devises, advertising umbrellas and signs attached
to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way,
unless the vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign other than a wall sign which is perpendicular to and
projects more than 18 inches from a building face or wall or from a structure
whose primary purpose is other than the support of the sign.
   PUBLIC SIGN. A traffic control sign in state statutes; any identification
sign installed in a public park by a public agency or authority; and any other
identification, regulatory or warning sign approved by the city for
installation on public land.
   PYLON SIGN. A free-standing sign supported by or erected upon one or more
narrow columns, shafts or poles. Also referred to as a POLE SIGN.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign advertising the sale, lease or rental of the
property or premises upon which the sign is located.
   REFACING. The process of replacing the sign copy, message, logo or graphic
on a sign without altering or moving the structure to which the sign face is
attached.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected, constructed, mounted or attached wholly or in
part upon any roof or over the highest roofline of a building.
   ROTATING SIGN. A sign or a portion of a sign where the sign or the sign
structure moves in a rotating, oscillating or similar manner other than
changing signs.
   SECURITY SIGN. A small, incidental sign identifying the presence of a
security system.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangle formed at a property corner abutting two street
rights-of-way where two triangle legs are 30 feet long with the third leg
traversing the property to connect the other two legs. (Refer to the graphic in
§ 161.037 of this chapter.)
   SIGN. Any written message, pictorial presentation, number, illustration,
decoration, banner or other device that is used to announce, direct attention
to, identify or advertise a product, service or activity or otherwise make
anything known. For purpose of maintenance or removal, the term SIGN also shall
include frames and support structures.
   SIGN AREA. The area of a sign within the marginal lines of the surface,
which bears the announcement, name, advertisement or other message or, in the
case of letters, figures or symbols attached directly to any part of a
building, the area which is included in the smallest rectangle which can be
made to circumscribe all letters, figures or symbols displayed thereon.
   SIGN COPY. The letters, numbers, figures, symbols, logos and graphical
elements comprising the content or message of the sign.
   SIGN HEIGHT. The distance measured perpendicular from the highest point of
the sign structure to the average elevation of the ground or grade adjacent to
the base of the sign.
   STATUE. A three-dimensional representation, usually of a person, animal, or
mythical being, that is produced by sculpturing, modeling, or casting.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign displaying a message erected or maintained for a
limited period of time and not of a permanent nature and that is not
permanently affixed to the land or to a structure. The signs shall include
banners, inflatable signs or devices, sandwich boards, portable changeable copy
signs or any other device intended to attract attention.
   TRANSIT ENCLOSURE SIGN. Commercial advertising located within a transit
enclosure or shelter. The signage shall not include route schedules, service
announcements or other similar notices.
   WALL SIGN. A sign attached to or erected against the exterior wall of a
building or structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane
approximately parallel to the face of the wall, not to project more than 12
inches from the surface to which it is attached.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign affixed to the interior or exterior of a window or
inside the building within three feet of the window with its message intended
to be visible to and readable by the public from the outside of the building.
(Prior Code, § 1008.02) (Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001; Ord. 769, passed 05-08-
2006; Ord. 801, passed 01-07-2008; Ord. 816, passed 01-22-2009; Ord. 999,
passed 7-10-2023)
§ 161.007 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter are either
more or less than comparable conditions imposed by any other code, rule or
regulation of the city, the code, rule or regulation which imposes the more
restrictive condition, standard or requirement shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 1008.14) (Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001)
§ 161.008 SIGN VARIANCES.
   (A)   A variance to the provisions of this chapter may be considered by the
Board of Adjustment and Appeals to provide relief to the landowner in those
cases where the chapter imposes practical difficulties to the property owner.
Applications shall be submitted and reviewed in the same manner as indicated in
§§
160.450 through
160.452, 160.465 through 160.470 and 160.485 through 160.487 of this chapter.
   (B)   All requests shall be made in writing on the form provided by the city
and the request shall include the fee specified in the city’s fee charges. All
information required when applying for a sign permit, as outlined in §
161.020 of this chapter, shall be required before the request for a variance is
considered.
(Prior Code, § 1008.16) (Ord. 585, passed 07-15-1996; Ord. 644, passed 12-13-
1999; Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001; Ord. 816, passed 01-22-2009; Ord. 861,
passed 09-22-2011)
PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 161.020 PERMITS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Permit required. It is unlawful to install, construct, erect, alter,
revise, reconstruct or relocate any outdoor sign or structure, as defined in §
161.006 of this chapter, in the city without first obtaining a permit therefor
as required by this chapter, except as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   Exceptions. Permits need not be obtained for any sign less than or
equal to eight square feet in area (excluding temporary signs), or for the
specific signs addressed below; provided, all other requirements of this
chapter are satisfied:
      (1)   A sign pertaining only to the sale, rental or lease of the premises
upon which displayed;
      (2)   A sign on residential property stating only the name or identity of
the occupant;
      (3)   Construction sign or sign belonging to a contractor performing work
upon a property. The sign shall be removed immediately upon completion of the
work;
      (4)   Home occupation signs and incidental residential signs;
      (5)   National, state, regional, local, institutional or cultural flags;
      (6)   Advertising on a transit bench or within a transit shelter or
enclosure;
      (7)   Official notices authorized by a court, public body or public
safety official;
      (8)   Government signs. All governmental signs, including, but not
limited to, traffic-control and other regulatory purpose signs, street signs,
identification signs, informational signs, danger signs and signs for official
city events;
      (9)   Flag or pennant stringers;
      (10)   Sandwich boards not exceeding eight square feet and ground signs
not exceeding four square feet that are located within 15 feet of business
advertised on sign; and
      (11)   Non-commercial sign. For all types of property, the city allows
sign(s) that expresses an opinion or a viewpoint of a non-commercial nature.
The non-commercial sign(s) shall not be illuminated or exceed nine square feet
combined. For multiple unit residential properties, the sign(s) must be
attached to the dwelling unit or placed in a location that clearly indicates
ownership and does not represent the opinions of other residents in the area
who have not agreed to the sign(s). Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, the non-commercial speech exemption provided by M.S. § 211B.045, as it
may be amended from time to time, is hereby incorporated by reference.
         (a)   A property owner may place a non-commercial sign(s) in the
city's right-of-way and shall maintain the property around the sign until it is
removed.
         (b)   Non- commercial signs shall not be placed in the right-of-way of
publicly owned property such as, but not limited to, parks, municipal
buildings, or EDA-owned land; nor shall they be placed on street signs, traffic
signals, traffic islands, fire hydrants, utility poles or other similar public
structures.
         (c)   Non-commercial signs may be posted in any number beginning 46
days before the state primary in a state general election year until ten days
following the state general election. In the case of a special local election,
the same rule shall apply as provided for by M.S. § 211B.045, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1008.01) (Ord. 607, passed 05-11-1998; Ord. 679, passed 05-29-
2001; Ord. 769, passed 05-08-2006; Ord. 816, passed 01-22-2009; Ord. 847,
passed 10-21-2010; Ord. 999, passed 7-10-2023; Ord. 1036, passed 4-14-2025)
§ 161.021 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for sign permits shall be made upon forms provided by the
city and shall include the following information, unless waived by the City
Administrator or his or her designee.
   (B)   The city will consider a sign application incomplete and will not
process the sign application if the applicant has not supplied all the required
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   The location, address and parcel identification number (PIN) of the
building, structure or lot to which or upon which the sign is to be placed;
      (3)   Complete and detailed plans showing the position of the sign or
other advertising structure in relation to nearby buildings, structures and
streets or highways, and to the nearest property lines;
      (4)   Two complete and detailed blueprints or ink drawings of the plans,
including elevations, distances, size and details, and specifications and
method of construction and attachment to the building or to the ground. The
plans shall fully and clearly represent the proposed sign and the construction;
      (5)   A copy of the stress sheets and calculations may be required by the
Inspector, on larger signs, showing that the structure is designed for dead
load and wind pressure in any direction in the amount required by this chapter
and any other applicable law;
      (6)   The name of the person or company erecting the structure, if not
the applicant, or the name of the person on whose property the structure is to
be located, if not the applicant;
      (7)   The written consent of the owner of the property, if not the
applicant;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the sign will be illuminated or not;
      (9)   A statement as to whether any electric lights on the sign will be
“moving” or blinking;
      (10)   A statement as to whether the sign will be single-faced, double-
faced or multi-faced;
      (11)   A statement as to whether or not the copy on the sign will be
changeable;
      (12)   A statement as to whether or not the copy on the sign will relate
only to the business or activity conducted on the premises on which the sign is
to be located; and
      (13)   A statement as to whether the sign would have any dynamic display
and if so, the specifics in area and style of the dynamic display.
(Prior Code, § 1008.04) (Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001; Ord. 816, passed 01-22-
2009; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 161.022 PERMIT FEES; WAIVER.
   (A)   Fee. The application for a permit shall be accompanied by the required
permit fee. The permit fee shall be per the city’s approved fee schedule.
   (B)   Waiver. Temporary sign permit fees shall be waived for civic or
religious organizations.
(Prior Code, § 1008.05) (Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001; Ord. 769, passed 05-08-
2006; Ord. 816, passed 01-22-2009; Ord. 847, passed 10-21-2010)
§ 161.023 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; REVIEW PROCESS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Review process. The City Administrator or his or her designee shall
approve or deny the sign permit application in an expedited manner from the
receipt of the completed application, including all plans, specifications and
applicable fees. The city will notify all applicants in writing if the city
denies the sign application. The notification shall include the reasons the
city denied the proposed sign.
   (B)   Variances. In the event an application is made for a sign which does
not conform to the requirements of this chapter, the city will deny the
application or the applicant shall either modify the application or apply to
the city for a variance according to the provisions established in §§
160.450 through
160.452,
160.465 through
160.470 and
160.485 through
160.487 of this chapter. No permit for a non-conforming sign shall be issued
without evidence of an approved variance.
(Prior Code, § 1008.06) (Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001; Ord. 816, passed 01-22-
2009; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010)
§ 161.024 SIGN INSTALLER’S LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall engage in the business of installing
signs, nor shall be entitled to receive a permit to install a sign in
connection with the business unless first licensed by the city to do so.
   (B)   Application and fee. A license may be granted by the Council upon
written application to the City Administrator on such form as required by the
City Administrator and accompanied by an annual license fee as established per
the city’s approved fee schedule.
   (C)   Liability insurance.
      (1)   Any person holding a license shall file with the City Administrator
policies of public liability and property damage insurance which shall remain
and be in force and effect during the entire term of the license and which
shall contain a provision that they shall not be cancelled without ten days’
written notice to the municipality.
      (2)   Public liability insurance should not be less than $1,000,000 for
injuries and property damage, including accidental death to any one person in
an amount not less than $500,000 on account of any one accident.
   (D)   Expiration. Licenses shall be issued on an annual basis, with the
license year running from January 1 through the following December 31.
   (E)   Revocation. A license may be terminated and renewal thereof may be
denied by the Council for violations of this chapter or other applicable
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1008.07) (Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001; Ord. 816, passed 01-22-
2009; Ord. 844, passed 05-20-2010; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-2019)
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 161.035 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   Premises on which ground signs are located shall be maintained free of weeds
and debris, and where landscaping was part of the original sign permit, the
landscaping shall be maintained in the manner provided in the permit.
(Prior Code, § 1008.01) (Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001)
§ 161.036 SIGN MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   General. All owners and property managers shall keep signs in good
condition and repair and free from peeling paint, rust, damaged or rotted
support, framework or other materials, broken or missing faces or missing
letters. When any sign becomes insecure, in danger of falling, or is otherwise
deemed unsafe or a nuisance by a city inspector, or if any sign shall have been
unlawfully installed, erected or maintained in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, the owner or firm using the sign shall, upon
written notice by the city inspector, make the sign conform to the provisions
of this chapter or shall remove the sign within ten days. If the sign owner,
user or responsible party has not corrected the violation within ten days, the
city inspector may remove or cause the sign to be removed at the expense of the
owner or user of the sign.
   (B)   Obsolete sign copy. The owner or user of any property or sign that has
any sign copy that no longer advertises or identifies a use conducted on the
property on which the sign is located must cover or remove the sign copy within
30 days after written notification from the city inspector. The city considers
such a sign to be a nuisance sign.
   (C)   Paint. The owner or user of any structure from which he or she has
moved or removed a sign shall repair and/or paint the structure with colors and
materials to match the existing background.
   (D)   Sign permit not required. Activities considered to be normal
maintenance and repair shall not require a sign or building permit from the
city. The activities shall include replacing or repairing lamps, ballasts,
transformers, trim, sign fasteners, nuts or washers; painting the pole or
supports of free-standing signs; and painting the cabinet of the free-standing
signs or building signs.
   (E)   Sign permit required. For any sign that initially required a permit,
the city requires a permit for all of the following additional activities (the
city does not consider such activities as normal maintenance):
      (1)   Refacing a sign, except for the text on a manual changeable message
sign;
      (2)   Removing the sign for the repair of the cabinet or any part
thereof;
      (3)   Changes made to a sign’s size, illumination or electrical service,
including, but not limited to, height, width, weight, area, adding or removing
illumination; and
      (4)   Changes to poles, structural supports, bases or shrouds, footings
or anchor bolts, moving the sign to a new location, or replacement of the
interior or exterior cabinet frame, except the sign face.
   (F)   Building permit. The city also will require a building permit for
signs or sign repair that involves the construction of, or changes to, a sign,
a sign structure, billboards and/or electrical connections. All signs using
electricity shall be subject to the state’s current Electrical Code. The
contractor shall bury or conceal all electrical wiring for the signs.
   (G)   Inspection authority. All signs are subject to inspection by the
Building Official or his or her designee, who the city authorizes to enter any
property or premises to determine if the provisions of this chapter are being
met. The inspector or city staff person shall make such an entrance or
inspection during regular business hours, unless there is an emergency.
   (H)   Signs in disrepair. The Building Official or his or her designee may
order the removal of any sign that the owner or the responsible party is not
maintaining according to the provisions of this chapter. Upon failure to meet
the requirements of a correction notice in the specified time in such an order,
the City Council may declare the sign to be a public nuisance, may have it
removed and impounded and assess the cost of the removal to the sign owner or
to the property owner.
   (I)   Impoundment of signs on public property or within public right-of-way.
The City Administrator or his or her designee may, at any time and without
notice, remove and impound signs that have been installed on public property,
within a public right-of-way, or within a public easement that are in violation
of this chapter. The sign owner or his or her agent may retrieve an impounded
sign subject to the following rules:
      (1)   Any impounded sign may be retrieved from the impound area within
five business days of the impoundment or the City Administrator or his or her
designee may dispose of it. The impound area can be located by contacting City
Hall. Any cost incurred by the city for disposal of an impounded sign may be
assessed to the sign owner or the sign owner’s agent.
      (2)   The city shall have no obligation to notify a property owner or
sign owner or his or her agent that it has impounded a sign.
      (3)   The city shall not be held liable for any damage to an impounded
sign.
(Prior Code, § 1008.081) (Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001; Ord. 816, passed 01-22-
2009; Ord. 847, passed 10-21-2010)
§ 161.037 GENERAL LOCATION, DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   General standards. Every sign shall conform to the standards of this
chapter whether or not a permit is required, and nothing contained herein shall
be construed as modifying or repealing any of the provisions of this code
relating to zoning. No sign shall be so located as to obscure or tend to
obscure any existing sign. The following additional requirements are to be
followed and met.
      (1)   Each sign shall be securely built, constructed and erected on the
building or ground. Temporary signs shall be so designed that they are not
readily overturned.
      (2)   No sign structure shall be attached or placed upon any building in
such a manner as to obstruct any fire escape or any window or door nor shall
any sign structure be attached to a fire escape.
      (3)   The illumination of any sign located near a residential district
shall be defused or indirect and located so as not to direct light on
residences.
      (4)   No swinging sign shall hereafter be erected or hung on or attached
to any building within the city, and every such sign so erected, hung or
attached prior to the effective date hereof which is deemed unsafe by the
Building Inspector shall be immediately removed by the owner thereof or changed
to conform with the requirements of this chapter when so ordered by the
Building Inspector.
      (5)   Where portions of a sign are subject to a different classification,
each portion shall meet the requirements of its classification.
      (6)   All illuminated signs shall have a shielded light source. The city
does not permit signs that have light sources directly visible to pedestrians
or to the operators of motor vehicles.
      (7)   No sign shall display matter that has been deemed obscene by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
      (8)   No sign shall have moving sections or intermittent, blinking or
flashing lights, except for government signs and signs with dynamic displays as
allowed in §
161.038 of this chapter.
      (9)   Each sign shall be used and maintained only in the manner permitted
and subject to the conditions imposed at the time the permit therefor was
granted.
      (10)   Clearance of signs from conductors: the minimum clearance of any
sign from unprotected electrical conductors (whether poles or other
installations) shall not be less than 36 inches for conductors carrying not
over 600 volts and 48 inches for conductors carrying more than 600 volts.
      (11)   Signs along freeways: except as otherwise provided in this chapter
and subject to state and federal laws, signs located on property adjacent to
any freeway within the municipality (including Interstate Highway 35W and U.S.
Highway 10) shall be business signs advertising businesses being conducted on
the premises on which the signs are located. No changeable copy signs shall be
located to face any freeway or be visible from the freeway. The provisions of
this division (A)(11) and chapter, however, shall not be construed to render
illegal or non-conforming any signs that are legally located along any such
freeway at the effective date herein.
   (B)            Signs allowed by district. The following table represents the
allowable signage and area requirements (in square feet) by zoning district:
Sign Type R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5 B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4 I-1 CRP PU D
Sign Type      R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5 B-1  B-2  B-3       B-4        I-1  CRP PU D
Billboards     No  No  No  No  No  No   No   No        No         No   No  No
Construction   8   8   8   8   8   32   32   32        32         32   32  32
***
Directional**  No  No  4   4   4   4    4    8         8          8    8   8
*
                                             (2) 36'   (2) 36'
Drive-thru                                   primary + primary +
menu board***  No  No  No  No  No  No   No   15'       15'        No   No  No
                                             seconda   seconda ry
                                             ry
Ground***      No  No  32  32  32  100  200  200       200        200  100 *
Statue         100 100 100 100 100 100  100  100       100        100  100 100
Home           1   1   No  No  1   No   No   No        No         No   No  No
occupation
Identification 2   2   2   2   2   4    4    8         8          8    4   *
***
Incidental     1   1   1   1   1   1    1    1         1          1    1   1
Non-           6   6   6   9   9   9    9    9         9          9    9   9
commercial* **
Projection     No  No  No  No  No  **** **** ****      ****       **** No  ****
Real estate*** 10  10  32  32  10  32   32   32        32         64   32  32
Temporary      Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  Yes  Yes       Yes        Yes  Yes Yes
Wall           No  No  64  64  64  100  100  300       300        300  No  *
Window         No  No  No  No  No  Yes  Yes  Yes       Yes        No   No  *
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Signage requirements within a PUD shall be as allowed by the PUD Narrative
document. If no such document exists, signage shall be as permitted for a B-
3 zoning district.
** Directional signs may be allowed within rights-of-way upon written approval
of the city, the appropriate governmental agency having jurisdiction over the
roadway (if not the City) and the owner of the property directly abutting the
sign.
*** For free-standing signs, maximum sign area is measured per side, maximum of
two sides.
**** See specific sign type standards and requirements for projection signs.
 
   (C)   Ground sign height, by district. The following table represents the
maximum height allowed for ground signs in each zoning district.
 
R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5 B-1 B-2   B-3   B-4 I-1   CRP   PUD
(1) (1) 8   8   8   16  16(3) 16(3) 16  16(3) 16(3) (2) (3)
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) No ground sign, other than home occupation, real estate,
incidental and temporary signs shall be allowed in these districts.
(2) Signage requirements within a PUD shall be as indicated by the
PUD Narrative document. If no such document exists, signage shall be
as allowed for a B-3 Zoning District.
(3) Maximum billboard sign height in some locations is 45 feet.
Refer to §
161.038(F) of this chapter.
 
(Prior Code, § 1008.09) (Ord. 644, passed 12-13-1999; Ord. 679, passed 05-29-
2001; Ord. 769, passed 05-08-2006; Ord. 816, passed 01-22-2009; Ord. 829,
passed 09-03-2009; Ord. 847, passed 10-21-2010; Ord. 884, passed 12-09-2013;
Ord. 988, passed 03-28-2022; Ord. 999, passed 7-10-2023)
§ 161.038 SPECIFIC SIGN TYPE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Ground signs. The following standards shall be maintained for all
ground signs, excluding incidental, temporary, home occupation, identification
and real estate signs.
      (1)   No part of a ground sign shall be nearer than three feet to any
building unless the sign is placed parallel to the side of the building.
      (2)   No part of a ground sign shall be nearer than 15 feet to any
perimeter lot line, nor located within a 30-foot sight triangle on any property
abutting two intersecting street rights-of-way. However, ground signs on
properties that front County Road 10 may have a five-foot setback from the lot
line adjacent to County Road 10, and a ten-foot sight triangle. (Refer to the
graphic below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7760e5def619e02f5c1df054835beca8f1d610a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2560.png]
 
      (3)   The owner, lessee or occupant of the land on which the ground sign
is located and the owner of the sign shall keep the property on which the sign
is located free of long grass, weeds or other rank growth, rubbish or debris.
      (4)   All parts of ground signs shall be designed for wind pressure of
not less than 30 pounds per square foot, and ground signs of wood construction
shall have all members which extend into the ground protected from decay by
treatment with a preservative approved by the Building Inspector.
      (5)   No permit shall be granted for the location of any ground sign
having a sign area of more than 40 square feet within 100 feet of any single-
family residence.
      (6)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (F) below, no more than
one pole or pylon sign shall be allowed per lot. However, the ground sign area
allowance may be divided between one pole or pylon sign and a monument sign or
between multiple monument signs, subject to the requirements herein; provided
that, one or more of the following conditions are applicable:
         (a)   The lot abuts multiple street rights-of-way, in which case a
sign may be located along each frontage;
         (b)   There are multiple curb cuts or driveways accessing the
property, in which case a sign may be located near each access point or
driveway; provided, the signs are separated by no less than 200 feet;
         (c)   The width of the lot, as measured along its longest street
frontage, exceeds 250 feet, in which case multiple signs may be located along
the long frontage; provided, the signs are separated by no less than 200 feet;
and
         (d)   The property or properties are within an approved planned unit
development (PUD).
      (7)   Ground signs must include masonry construction materials on the
entire base, such as stone, brick or stucco.
   (B)   Wall signs. The following standards shall be maintained for all wall
signs.
      (1)   No wall sign shall have a projection over a private sidewalk or an
established building line of more than 12 inches.
      (2)   The wall sign area allowances as indicated in §
161.035(B) of this chapter for B-2, B-3, B-4 and I-1 Zoning Districts are per
building occupant.
      (3)   The wall sign area allowances as indicated in §
161.035(B) of this chapter for the R-3, R-4, PF and CRP Zoning Districts are
per building.
      (4)   In the B-1 Zoning District, the area allowance, as indicated in §
161.035(B) of this chapter, reflects the combined area for all wall, ground and
projection signage on that lot.
   (C)   Projection signs. The following standards shall be maintained for all
projection signs.
      (1)   All portions of projection signs shall be designed for a wind
pressure of not less than 30 pounds per square foot.
      (2)   Such signs shall not project over public street right-of-way but
may project over private sidewalks. No such sign shall be less than 12 feet
above the level of the sidewalk; except that, the signs which do not exceed
four square feet and which do not project more than two feet over the sidewalk
may be eight feet or more above the sidewalk. No projection sign shall project
more than eight feet over any private sidewalk.
      (3)   There shall be no more than two feet of space between the inner
edge of any such sign and the face of the wall from which it projects, nor
shall the outer edge of the sign be more than eight feet from the face of the
wall. Projection signs and structural elements shall not exceed ten feet in
height above a roof or parapet. The allowable size of projection signs shall be
included within the permitted wall sign area.
      (4)   The building or structure from which any such sign projects and all
attachments or fastenings must be so constructed as to safely resist the dead
load and the wind load added by the attached sign.
      (5)   All such signs shall be of non-combustible materials or of not less
than one-hour fire-resistive construction.
      (6)   Such signs shall be securely fixed in place and shall not be able
to swing or sway.
   (D)   Temporary signs. All temporary signs shall comply with the provisions
of this chapter. The following general and specific standards shall be observed
for all types of temporary and portable signs.
      (1)   General provisions.
            (a)   Except as provided herein, no temporary sign shall be located
on any property in the city without first obtaining a permit from the city. If
the city determines to approve a permit for any such temporary sign it may
impose conditions upon the granting thereof, and it shall be unlawful to locate
or maintain any such sign for a longer period or in a different manner than
that specified in the permit. No permit for a temporary sign shall be issued if
prohibited by other provisions of this code.
            (b)   Temporary signs shall not be hung or installed to cover,
either partially or completely, any door, window or opening required for
ventilation.
            (c)   No temporary sign for which a permit is required shall be
located on any property in the city for more than 21 days at one time or for
more than four 21-day periods in any calendar year. A fifth temporary sign
permit is allowed for a banner only. Permit periods may run consecutively
without interruption if so approved. Except as provided in division (D)(7) of
this chapter, only one temporary sign shall be allowed on a property at a time.
            (d)   The city prohibits temporary signs with blinking, flashing or
fluttering lights or with dynamic displays.
      (2)   Banners.
            (a)   Banners shall be strongly constructed and shall be securely
attached to their supports. They shall be repaired or removed (including all
framework and supports) as soon as damaged or torn and immediately upon
expiration of the permit.
            (b)   Banners shall not exceed 120 square feet or 20% of the
surface area of the building face or front upon which the banner is attached,
whichever is less.
      (3)   Changeable copy signs.
            (a)   Portable and temporary changeable copy signs shall not exceed
48 square feet on each side and the entirety of the sign copy shall be
maintained within the 48 square foot area.
            (b)   No part of such sign shall extend into or encroach onto
public right-of-way.
            (c)   The sign shall not obscure motorist or pedestrian vision and
shall not block or otherwise interfere with a public or private sidewalk or
trailway.
            (d)   The sign may be lighted provided the lighting is not a
nuisance to motorists or to adjoining properties. Flashing lights, strobe
lights or lights which could be confused for that of an emergency vehicle shall
be prohibited.
      (4)   Inflatable signs.
            (a)   Inflatable signs and devices shall be securely tethered and
attached to the ground.
            (b)   The city prohibits the installation or placement of
inflatable signs and devices or balloons on building roofs.
            (c)   Balloons less than two feet in diameter are excluded from the
permit provisions of this section.
            (d)   No Mylar or metallic balloons shall be permitted to be
displayed or flown outside.
      (5)   Grand openings and other events. Subject to all other requirements
of this chapter, a permit may be issued for a grand opening or other special
event that would utilize a combination of temporary signs at any one principal
location. No more than one special event permit shall be allowed per business
in a calendar year.
   (E)   Window signs. In the interest of public safety, the city requires that
commercial or retail businesses operating in the B-1, B-2, B-3 or B-4 Zoning
Districts meet the following regulations and requirements governing signs
placed upon window interiors.
      (1)   No business shall obscure more than 50% of any window section or
pane.
      (2)   The window signage shall not obscure or block from view that area
of a window or door between four feet and seven feet from the interior floor
level, unless the area does not offer any visibility to interior public space.
      (3)   Window signs as allowed herein shall be exempt from any permit
requirements.
   (F)   Billboards. A new or renewed interim use permit shall not be issued
for any new or currently existing billboard within the city.
      (1)   Interim use permit. Any IUP issued for an interim use billboard
shall automatically expire no later than 07-01-2037 or earlier if so indicated
in the resolution approving the IUP.
      (2)   Maximum sign area. The maximum gross surface display area of the
sign cannot exceed 700 square feet per side except that any rectangular
billboard may contain temporary extensions, cutouts, or top lettering which
occupy a total area not in excess of 25% of the area of the basic billboard and
form an integral part of the design thereof. No such temporary extension, cut
out or top lettering may project more than six feet from the top, 18 inches
from either side or 15 inches from the bottom of the basic rectangular
advertising message. The area of an extension, cutout or top lettering shall be
deemed to be the area of the smallest rectangle into which the extension,
cutout or top lettering will fit.
      (3)   Orientation of sign faces. Billboards may have no more than two
sign faces. Sign faces must be back-to-back with sign faces parallel or angled.
All billboards with their faces back-to-back and parallel shall have no greater
distance than eight feet between the faces. All billboards with faces at an
angle shall have no greater angle than 35 degrees.
      (4)   Maximum sign height. The maximum allowable height of billboards
shall be 45 feet, except for billboards located on County Road 10 or on
Interstate 35W between County Road H2 and County Road I, in which cases the
height shall be limited to 35 feet. The height shall be measured from the grade
at the base of the sign or from the surface of the roadway whichever is higher.
      (5)   Obstruction. No billboard may be located in such a manner as to
obscure or otherwise interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic
sign, signal or device, or obstruct or interfere with a driver’s view of
approaching, merging or intersecting traffic.
      (6)   Dynamic displays. All billboards with dynamic displays shall meet
all the requirements of §
161.038 of this chapter.
   (G)   Home occupation signs. In the R-1, R-2 and R-5 Residential Zoning
Districts, a sign not to exceed one square foot is allowed to be displayed;
provided, the sign is attached to the house or garage of the property on which
the home occupation takes place.
   (H)   Dynamic display signs.
      (1)   The city allows non-commercial dynamic display signs wherever the
city allows commercial dynamic display signs. The signs are subject to the same
standards and total maximum allowances per site or building of each sign type
specified in this chapter.
      (2)   Standards for all dynamic display signs.
         (a)   The messages, content and images on all such displays shall not
flash or blink.
         (b)   No person or contractor shall install a dynamic display sign
that because of its position, shape, movement or color, interferes with the
proper functioning of a traffic sign, signal or that constitutes a traffic
hazard.
         (c)   All dynamic display signs shall have ambient light monitors and
shall, at all times, allow the monitors to automatically adjust the brightness
level of the sign based on light conditions.
         (d)   The manufacturers, owners and operators of dynamic display signs
must design and equip such signs with a fully functional monitoring off switch
system that automatically shuts the sign off or will freeze the device or sign
in one position; if a malfunction occurs. The signs and displays also must be
equipped with a means to shut off or discontinue the display if it
malfunctions. The sign owner or operator must stop or shut off the dynamic
display within one hour or as soon as reasonably possible of the city
notification that the sign is not meeting the standards of this chapter.
         (e)   Any dynamic display sign capable of accessing and utilizing
State Amber Alert technology shall display such messages as they are made
available by the state’s Department of Public Safety or other responsible
agency.
         (f)   All dynamic display signs shall meet the following brightness
standards.
            1.   No sign shall be brighter than is necessary for clear and
adequate visibility and no sign shall exceed 500 Nits (candelas per square
meter) at night and 7,500 Nits (candelas per square meter) during the day.
            2.   No sign shall be of such intensity or brilliance as to impair
the vision of a motor vehicle driver with average eyesight, nor shall such a
sign interfere with the driver’s operation of a motor vehicle in any way or
manner.
            3.   No sign may be of such intensity or brilliance that it
interferes with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, device or
signal.
            4.   The person owning or controlling a sign with a dynamic display
shall adjust the sign to meet the brightness standards according to the city’s
instructions. The sign owner or operator shall adjust the sign within one hour
or as soon as reasonably possible upon notice of non-compliance from the city.
            5.   All dynamic display signs installed after 12-31-2008 shall be
equipped and operated with an ambient light monitor or a mechanism that
automatically adjusts the brightness level of the sign in response to light
conditions. These signs also shall be equipped with a means to turn off
immediately the display or lighting if the sign malfunctions, and the sign
owner or operator must turn off the sign or lighting within one hour or as soon
as reasonably possible after the city notifies the owner or operator that the
sign is not meeting the standards of this chapter.
            6.   Subsequent to 11-01-2011, no dynamic display sign shall have
the capacity to operate in excess of 7,500 Nits (candelas per square meter).
The lamp wattage and luminance level in Nits (candelas per square meter) shall
be provided at the time of permit application. Dynamic display sign permit
applications must also include a certification from the owner or operator of
the sign stating that the sign shall at all times be operated in accordance
with city codes.
            7.   In addition to the brightness standards required above,
dynamic display signs shall meet the city’s lighting requirements as listed in
§
160.031 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   In addition to all other standards of this chapter, the city allows
on-site dynamic display signs subject to the following additional conditions.
            (a)    Such signs may be located only in the Limited Business (B-
2), Highway Business (B-3), Regional Business (B-4), Commercial Planned Unit
Developments (PUDs), or (I-1) Industrial zoning districts.
         (b)   Notwithstanding division (H)(3)(a) above, the signs may be
located on the sites of schools, churches, places of worship or other
institutional land uses, subject to the following additional conditions:
            1.   City Council approval of a conditional use permit (CUP) as
outlined in §§
160.088 and
160.452 of this chapter; and
            2.   The signs shall not cause glare, disturbance or other problems
to any residential properties or land uses.
         (c)    The owner or operator of a dynamic display sign shall control
and display the primary or background images and messages on the sign so they
maintain each display for a minimum of eight seconds.
         (d)   Dynamic display signage shall not exceed 50 square feet of the
sign area.
         (e)   The signs may only display and advertise information about
products, events, persons, institutions, activities, businesses, services or
subjects that are located on the premises or on the site or only to provide
public service or community service information.
         (f)   Such signs must meet all other city location and setback
requirements.
      (4)   The city allows off-site dynamic display signs subject to division
(F) above, the above-mentioned standards for all dynamic display signs, and the
following operational standards and additional conditions.
         (a)   The images and messages displayed on the billboard must be
static and each display must be maintained for a minimum of eight seconds. The
transition from one static display to another must be instantaneous and without
any special effects or videos.
         (b)   Only billboard faces located adjacent to Interstate 35W and more
than 1,000 feet from any residentially zoned property in the city may be
retrofit to a dynamic display, and only subsequent to a building permit issued
by the city. One hundred percent of the sign face may be used for dynamic
display.
         (c)   If city staff determines that a dynamic display sign is not
being operated pursuant to this chapter due to its location or display
capabilities, city staff can require the sign owner or operator to modify the
sign after the city notifies the property owner or operator about the
operational issues.
   (I)   Statue. Statues shall be constructed of non-pliable all-weather
material (e.g. not an inflatable sign), permanently anchored to the ground or a
building, or comparable structure. Statues shall not exceed 100 square feet in
area (example: ten foot height, ten foot width, ten foot depth), 16 feet in
height if at ground level, or ten feet in height above the roof or parapet if
attached to a building. Location of statues shall comply with the same setbacks
required for ground signs.
(Prior Code, § 1008.10) (Ord. 644, passed 12-13-1999; Ord. 656, passed 03-27-
2000; Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001; Ord. 708, passed 12-30-2002; Ord. 769,
passed 05-08-2006; Ord. 801, passed 01-07-2008; Ord. 816, passed 01-22-2009;
Ord. 829, passed 09-03-2009; Ord. 884, passed 12-09-2013; Ord. 864, passed 11-
03-2011; Ord. 872, passed 06-07-2012; Ord. 887, passed 06-09-2014; Ord. 919,
passed 06-27-2016; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-2019; Ord. 988, passed 03-28-2022;
Ord. 999, passed 7-10-2023)
§ 161.039 MISCELLANEOUS SIGNAGE REQUIREMENTS AND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Signage allowances for specific land uses. Public or semi-public
recreational buildings and neighborhood and community centers; public and
private education institutions limited to elementary, middle and senior high
schools; religious institutions; nursing homes, senior assisted living
facilities and commercial day care facilities; may be allowed the following
signage:
      (1)   Wall signage not to exceed 300 square feet per principal building;
and
      (2)   Ground signage not to exceed 200 square feet, subject to §
161.038(A)(5) of this chapter.
   (B)   Traffic-control related sign regulations. Compliance with the
following regulations relative to traffic control is required.
      (1)   No animated or moving sign shall be located or maintained within 50
feet of an intersection at which traffic semaphores are located.
      (2)   No sign shall be designed, located or maintained to obscure or
conceal or cause confusion as to any traffic-control sign or device.
      (3)   No sign shall be located or maintained on or over any public street
or highway right-of-way unless specifically permitted herein.
      (4)   There shall be no use of revolving beacons, zip flashers, flashing
signs or similar devices that would distract automobile or motor vehicle
traffic to constitute a safety hazard.
      (5)   The sign shall be located or maintained so as not to interfere with
the ability of drivers or pedestrians to see any crossroad or crosswalk.
   (C)   Area identification signs. The City Council at its discretion may
allow for the placement of an area identification sign to define a
neighborhood, community, development, subdivision or multi-family complex and
may require that:
      (1)   The applicant is a duly noted representative of the appropriate
group or organization;
      (2)   The land upon which the sign is located has been dedicated for such
a use by easement, plat or other legal and recordable instrument unless such
sign would otherwise be permitted herein; and
      (3)   A maintenance agreement be recorded which among other things would
provide for the long term responsibility, care and maintenance of such sign.
   (D)   Off-site directional signs. Off-site directional signs may be
permitted within a public right-of-way subject to approval of the city, written
approval of the appropriate governmental agency having jurisdiction over the
roadway (if not the city) and the written approval of the owner of the property
to which the sign may be adjacent, if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 1008.11) (Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001; Ord. 816, passed 01-22-
2009; Ord. 900, passed 05-26-2015; Ord. 999, passed 7-10-2023)
§ 161.040 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs and sign types are prohibited in the city:
   (A)   Flashing signs;
   (B)   Signs, or lights attached to signs, which mimic or have an appearance
similar to those on an emergency vehicle or a traffic-control light;
   (C)   Roof signs, unless integrally incorporated into the roof design, then
the sign shall be considered a projection sign;
   (D)   Temporary or permanent signs posted within public rights-of-way,
excluding directional signs and signs expressly allowed herein and by other
governmental agencies;
   (E)   Vehicles used as signs: vehicles or trailers that display advertising
and are parked in such a way as to attract public attention shall be
prohibited, except for signs on vehicles or trailers which are magnetic, decals
or permanently painted upon the surface of the vehicle without obscuring any
vehicle window area. The sign shall not alter the profile or silhouette of the
vehicle;
   (F)   Nuisance signs: any sign considered a nuisance as defined herein shall
be prohibited. The property owner of the land upon which the sign is located or
the owner of the sign shall act to remove the sign or bring the sign into
compliance upon notification of the City Inspector;
   (G)   Signs that have blinking, flashing or fluttering lights;
   (H)   Billboards, except as otherwise provided in this chapter or Code; and
   (I)   Beacons and searchlights.
(Prior Code, § 1008.12) (Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001; Ord. 769, passed 05-08-
2006; Ord. 801, passed 01-07-2008; Ord. 816, passed 01-22-2009; Ord. 847,
passed 10-21-2010; Ord. 999, passed 7-10-2023)
§ 161.041 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   It is the intent of the city with this chapter that non-conforming
signs shall not be enlarged or expanded, nor should a person use this chapter
as grounds for adding other signs or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
district. It is further the intent of the city with this chapter to permit
legal non-conforming signs to remain if the signs are safe, maintained in good
condition and if the signs have not been abandoned, moved or removed. Any sign,
including a billboard, legally existing at the time of the passage of this
chapter that does not conform to the provisions of this chapter shall be
considered a legal non-conforming sign and may be continued including through
repair, replacement of graphic panels, restoration, maintenance or improvement,
but not including the moving, enlargement or expansion of the sign. EXPANSION
shall be defined as any structural alteration, change or addition that is made
outside of the original sign structure or design.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the return or repair of a sign
structure that has been declared unsafe by the Building Official to a safe
condition.
   (C)   When any lawful non-conforming sign is discontinued for more than one
year, or is changed to a conforming sign, any future sign or sign structure
shall meet the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Any legal, non-conforming sign shall be removed and shall not be
repaired, replaced, restored or rebuilt if it is damaged by fire or other
similar peril to the extent of greater than 50% of its market value at the time
of destruction and no sign permit or building permit (if applicable) has been
applied for within 180 days of the date of destruction. The city’s Building
Official shall be responsible for making the determination whether a non-
conforming sign has been destroyed greater than 50% of its market value at the
time of destruction. In making this determination, the Building Official shall
consider the market value of the entire sign at the time prior to the
destruction and the replacement value of the existing sign. In the event a
building permit is applied for within 180 days of the date of the damage or
destruction and the sign did not withstand damage greater than 50% of its
market value at the time of destruction, the city may impose reasonable
conditions upon the building permit in order to mitigate any newly created
impact on adjacent properties.
   (E)   A lawful non-conforming sign shall not be changed to a similar non-
conforming sign or to a more restrictive non-conforming sign.
   (F)   Sign regulation conformance. Should a sign owner, operator or
contractor permanently move a non-conforming sign or a non-conforming sign
structure for any reason for any distance, it shall thereafter conform to the
regulations of this chapter and with the zoning district standards that it is
in after the owner or contractor moves it.
(Prior Code, § 1008.13) (Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001; Ord. 769, passed 05-08-
2006; Ord. 816, passed 01-22-2009; Ord. 884, passed 12-09-2013)
§ 161.999 PENALTY.
   Any person found violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1008.15) (Ord. 679, passed 05-29-2001)
CHAPTER 162: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
162.001   Definition
   
162.002   Plan review; permit; fee
   
162.003   Location of pool
   
162.004   Fencing required
   
162.005   General restrictions
   
162.006   Compliance with provisions
   
162.999   Penalty
§ 162.001 DEFINITION.
   A SWIMMING POOL is any structure, basin, chamber or tank containing an
artificial body of water for swimming, diving or recreational bathing, more
than 150 square feet in area and/or over 24 inches in depth, built of any
material and located above or below ground.
(Prior Code, § 1009.01)
§ 162.002 PLAN REVIEW; PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   Plan review. No person shall begin construction of either an indoor or
outdoor swimming pool without first having submitted plans and specifications
to the Building Official for review and approval.
   (B)   Issuance of permit; fee. Upon approval, a permit shall be issued to
the applicant upon payment of the required permit fee as established per the
city’s approved fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 1009.02) (Ord. 853, passed 02-03-2011)
§ 162.003 LOCATION OF POOL.
   (A)   Compliance with zoning provisions; nuisance prohibited. Any outdoor
swimming pool, its fencing or barriers, its pumps, filters, heating units or
any other noise-making mechanical equipment, as well as the use of the pool,
shall be solely located in the backyard of an authorized premises not less than
ten feet from any property line and not less than three feet from any other
building or structure. Pools and associated mechanical equipment shall be
maintained so as not to constitute an unattractive, public or private nuisance.
Swimming pools shall be located on property in a manner so as to comply with
all applicable provisions of Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Utility easements. Pools shall not be located within any utility
easement or be over or under any utility lines.
(Prior Code, § 1009.03) (Ord. 794, passed 08-27-2007)
§ 162.004 FENCING REQUIRED.
   (A)   All outdoor swimming pools shall be made inaccessible when not in use
by a non-climbable type of fence, wall or barrier. All openings or points of
entry into the pool area enclosure shall be equipped with locking gates. The
fence and gates shall be at least four feet in height and shall be constructed
of a material approved by the Building Official. All fence posts shall be
decay-resistant or corrosion-resistant and shall be set in concrete bases or
other suitable protection. The opening between the bottom of the fence and the
ground or other surface shall not be more than two inches.
   (B)   All gates shall be equipped with self-closing hinges and a self-
latching device. Where the release mechanism of the self-latching device is
located less than 54 inches from the bottom of the gate, the release mechanism
shall be located on the pool side of the gate at least three inches below the
top of the gate.
   (C)   All gates shall be equipped with a lock which will render the gate
inaccessible when the pool is not in use. Ladders and steps shall be capable of
being secured, locked or removed to prevent access. Ladders and steps which are
non-removable or non-folding shall be surrounded by a barrier as stated in
division (A) above. All locks shall be of the type that cannot be opened
without the use of a key or numerical combination.
   (D)   No person owning or operating an outdoor swimming pool shall use,
operate or allow the use of the swimming pool unless the pool complies with the
above provisions. The required safety fencing shall be completely installed
with installation of the pool.
(Prior Code, § 1009.04) (Ord. 794, passed 08-27-2007; Ord. 853, passed 02-03-
2011) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.005 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Pool lighting. All pool lighting shall be directed toward the pool.
   (B)   Use of city sanitary sewer. Pool water drained through the city’s
sanitary sewer system must be obtained from a metered source within the city.
Drainage of pools into public facilities other than the city sanitary sewer
system shall require the approval of the Director of Public Works/Parks and
Recreation.
   (C)   Electrical applications. All electrical applications shall meet the
requirements of this code, including the State Electrical Code.
(Prior Code, § 1009.05) (Ord. 853, passed 02-03-2011; Ord. 957, passed 05-28-
2019) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.006 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   All persons owning or operating an outdoor swimming pool shall comply with
this chapter within 90 days from the effective date hereof.
(Prior Code, § 1009.06)
§ 162.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1009.07)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   HOUSE AND BUILDING NUMBER CHANGES
      
III.   STREET NAME CHANGES AND VACATIONS
      
IV.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT FEES
      
V.   REZONINGS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
517      12-21-1992  Granting a gas distribution system franchise to Northern
                     States Power Company
                   (Prior Code, Ch. 1401)
518      12-21-1992  Granting an electric distribution system franchise to
                     Northern States Power Company
                   (Prior Code, Ch. 1402)
519      11-20-1992  Implementing a franchise fee on electric and gas utility
                     companies
605      12-13-1997  Implementing a franchise fee on electric and gas utility
                     companies
606      11-10-1997  Amending the cable franchise ordinance
611      02-04-1998  Amending the cable franchise ordinance
616      04-27-1998  Amending the cable franchise ordinance
622      01-16-1999  Implementing a franchise fee on electric and gas utility
                     companies
641      10-11-1999  Implementing a franchise fee on Northern States Power
                     Company
660      07-10-2000  Implementing a franchise fee on Reliant Energy Minnegasco
                     Natural Gas operations
670      10-10-2000  Implementing a franchise fee on Northern States Power
                     Company
671      10-10-2000  Implementing a franchise fee on Northern States Power
                     Company
687      11-13-2001  Implementing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas
688      11-13-2001  Implementing a franchise fee on Reliant Energy Natural Gas
                     operations
703      09-23-2002  Implementing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas
704      09-23-2002  Implementing a franchise fee on Reliant Energy Natural Gas
                     operations
719      10-13-2003  Implementing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy
722      10-13-2003  Implementing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas
746      09-13-2004  Implementing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas
747      09-13-2004  Implementing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy
767      01-23-2006  Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
768      01-23-2006  Implementing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy
777      08-14-2006  Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
779      09-11-2006  Implementing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy
796      08-27-2007  Implementing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy
797      08-27-2007  Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
811      09-03-2008  Continuing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy Natural
                     Gas Operations
812      09-03-2008  Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
825      09-03-2009  Continuing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy Natural
                     Gas Operations
826      09-03-2009  Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
849      09-02-2010  Continuing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy Natural
                     Gas Operations
850      09-02-2010  Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
862      09-01-2011  Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
863      09-01-2011  Continuing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy Natural
                     Gas Operations
873      08-27-2012  Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
874      08-27-2012  Continuing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy Natural
                     Gas Operations
875      02-11-2013  Granting a gas distribution franchise to Northern States
                     Power Company, d/b/a XCel Energy
876      02-11-2013  Granting an electric distribution franchise to Northern
                     States Power Company, d/b/a XCel Energy
881      08-26-2013  Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
882      08-26-2013  Continuing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy Natural
                     Gas Operations
892      09-08-2014  Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
893      09-08-2014  Continuing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy Natural
                     Gas Operations
894      11-10-2014  Amendment to the cable television franchise ordinance
906      08-24-2015  Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
907      08-24-2015  Continuing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy Natural
                     Gas Operations
910      11-23-2015  Granting a cable communications system franchise to Qwest
                     Broadband Services, Inc., d/b/a CenturyLink
923      8-22-2016   Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
924      08-22-2016  Continuing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy Natural
                     Gas Operations
935      08-28-2017  Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
936      08-28-2017  Continuing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy Natural
                     Gas Operations
937      09-25-2017  Granting a cable television franchise to Comcast of
                     Minnesota, Inc., d/b/a Comcast
949      09-24-2018  Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
950      09-10-2018  Continuing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy Natural
                     Gas Operations
                     Granting a natural gas utility franchise to Center Point
962      08-26-2019  Energy Resources Corporation, d/b/a Center Point Energy
                     Minnesota Gas
963      09-09-2019  Continuing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy Natural
                     Gas Operations
978      08-23-2021  Continuing a franchise fee on Center Point Energy Natural
                     Gas Operations
979      08-23-2021  Continuing a franchise fee on Xcel Energy Electric and
                     Natural Gas Operations
                    
 
TABLE II: HOUSE AND BUILDING NUMBER CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         Changing house and building numbers
200      01-15-1973  Amending house and building numbers
289      02-12-1979  Amending house and building numbers
435A     06-27-1988  Amending house and building numbers
469      07-10-1989  Amending house and building numbers
477      10-09-1989  Amending house and building numbers
446      07-25-1998  Amending house and building numbers
480      03-12-1990  Amending house and building numbers
                    
 
TABLE III: STREET NAME CHANGES AND VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
-    - -    Spring Lake Road
-    - -    Greenfield Place
-    - -    Bona Road
-    - -    Silver Lake Road
-    - -    Ardan Avenue
315  08-23- Fairchild Avenue
     1982
345  07-25- Block 1, Iron Works Plat
     1983
359  04-09- St. Stephen Street
     1984
419  07-13- Block 2, Jim Lund 2nd Addition
     1987
429  10-12- Block 2, Jim Lund 2nd Addition Easements
     1987
432  01-25- Skiba Drive, Liberty Street/Easements of Raymond Avenue
     1988
433  01-11- St. Stephen Street
     1988
440  04-25- Amending Ordinance 433 - St. Stephen Street
     1988
534  03-28- Vacating the Mustang Lane Street right-of-way easement
     1994
554  02-27- Vacating certain publicly-held easements
     1995
555  02-27- Vacating certain publicly-held easements
     1995
426  09-28- Lake Court Circle
     1997
615  05-11- Vacating a portion of a drainage and utility easement
     1998
666  08-28- Vacating a portion of Edgewood Drive
     2000
668  09-11- Vacating an unused easement
     2000
680  05-29- Vacating a portion of Pleasant View Drive roadway easement
     2001
744  07-26- Vacating excess utility easements (Velmeir - CVS)
     2004
750  08-23- Vacating excess highway and utility easements
     2004
757  01-24- Vacating excess utility easements at 8265 Spring Lake Road
     2005
763  05-31- Vacating excess drainage and utility easement at Sysco Second Addition
     2005   Subdivision
765  11-14- Vacating excess right-of-way and easements associated with the
     2005   Medtronic CRM plat
766  11-28- Vacating an excess drainage and utility easement associated with the
     2005   Belting Office Development
770  03-27- Vacating an excess right-of-way within the Sysco Plat
     2006
775  07-10- Vacating an excess highway easement associated with Hidden Hollow
     2006   South Major Subdivision
777  08-14- Vacating partially a drainage and utility easement in the Hidden
     2006   Hollow Major Subdivision
809  09-3-  Authorizing a partial vacation of a 17.5- foot surface water easement
     2009   on Greenfield Estates property
836  10-22- Vacating a sanitary sewer easement on the Mermaid property
     2008
858  09-06- Authorizing the vacation of utility, drainage and water main easements
     2012   on parcels at 2320 County Road 10 and 5260 O’Connell Drive
918  06-13- Renaming a portion of “County Road H” to “Mounds View Boulevard”
     2016
920  06-27- Renaming “Highway Avenue” to “County Road H”
     2016
966  09-23- Vacating a portion of Greenfield Avenue
     2019
1013 04-08- Vacating a drainage and utility easement within the property located
     2024   at 8411 Fairchild Avenue
           
 
TABLE IV: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT FEES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
754      01-24-2005  Planning and development fees
783      11-27-2006  Amending planning and development fees
855      12-13-2010  Amending planning and development fees
860      10-06-2011  Amending planning and development fees
928      12-12-2016  Amending planning and development fees
960      07-22-2019  Amending the park dedication fee
1012     11-13-2023  Amending planning and development fees
1016     08-26-2024  Amending planning and development fees
1019     10-28-2024  Amending planning and development fees
1021     11-25-2024  Amending planning and development fees
                    
 
TABLE V: REZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
-    - -    Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
296  08-25- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1980
302  04-13- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1981
339  05-23- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1983
341  10-10- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1983
346  10-10- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1983
348  12-27- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1983
353  01-23- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1984
354  02-13- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1984
360  05-29- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1984
361  05-29- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1984
362  05-29- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1984
368  06-11- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1984
376  07-09- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1984
396  08-12- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1985
398  08-26- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1985
406  04-14- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1986
408  05-27- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1986
418  04-13- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1987
420  08-10- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1987
437  03-14- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1988
465  03-23- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1989
464  03-27- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1989
471  07-24- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1989
478  10-23- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1989
479  11-13- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1989
484  02-12- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1990
537  05-23- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1994
538  05-23- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1994
539  05-23- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1994
           
543  06-27- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1994
549  10-24- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1994
561  06-12- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1995
599  05-27- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1997
631  09-13- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     1999
655  03-27- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     2000
665  08-28- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     2000
675  11-27- Amending the zoning map; rezoning certain land
     2000
683  01-28- Amending the zoning map at the northeast corner Long Lake Road and County Road
     2001   I
684  07-09- Amending the zoning map at 2625 Highway 10
     2001
697  04-22- Amending the zoning map at the subdivided east half of 7653 Groveland Road
     2002
702  09-09- Amending the zoning map at 2404 Highway 10
     2002
739  11-22- Amending the zoning map at 2800 County Road 10
     2004
761  05-31- Amending the zoning map at a three-acre lot of the Sysco outlet
     2006
764  11-14- Amending the zoning map at the Medtronic CRM Development Area
     2006
813  11-05- Amending the zoning map at 2865 County Highway 10 and 7980 and 8020 Groveland
     2008   Road
840  01-21- Amending the zoning map at 7301 Park View Drive, 7441 Park View Drive and 2760
     2010   Wooddale Drive
848  09-06- Amending the zoning map at 2320 and 2340 County Highway 10 and 5260 O’Connell
     2012   Drive
912  01-25- Amending the zoning map at 2408/2410 County Road I
     2016
934  05-08- Amending the zoning map at 2901 Mounds View Boulevard and 80XX Groveland Road
     2017
956  05-28- Amending the zoning map at 8482 Long Lake Road, 8484 Long Lake Road and 8486
     2019   Long Lake Road
958  07-08- Amending the zoning map at 2400 County Road H2, 2394 Mounds View Boulevard,
     2019   2390 Mounds View Boulevard
985  11-22- Amending the zoning map at 4889 Old Highway 8, 4943 Old Highway 8
     2021
1037 4-14-  Amending the zoning map at 2833 Mounds View Boulevard.
     2025
1038 4-14-  Amending the zoning map at 2840 Mounds View Boulevard.
     2025
1039 4-14-  Amending the zoning map at 7861 Groveland Road.
     2025
           
 
APPENDIX A: FEE SCHEDULE
I. BUILDING/COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT RELATED FEES
I. BUILDING/COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT RELATED FEES
Type Fee
I. BUILDING/COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT RELATED FEES
Type                                                                  Fee
                                                                      Fees shall be based on valuation according to M.S. § 326B.153, unless
Building permit (state surcharge required, see M.S. § 326B.148)      specifically noted otherwise or as determined by the city's Building
                                                                      Official
                                                                      65% of building permit fee (Building Official may waive plan review
Building permit plan review                                           fee for certain projects that require diminutive plan review such as
                                                                      partial basement finishes, kitchen remodeling, and minor repairs/
                                                                      alterations.
Building permit reinspection                                          $63.25 per M.S. § 326B.153
Building permit investigation fee (starting work without an approved/ Equivalent to permit fee
issued permit)
Renewable energy system (solar PV building permit: small rooftop      $150
streamlined, geothermal, wind energy conversion) - residential
Renewable energy system (solar, geothermal, wind energy conversion) - See M.S. § 326B.153
commercial
Billboards/billboard alterations (includes footings)                  $250 per billboard plus surcharge
Roofing or siding - single family residential                         $100
Partial (less than 25%) of principal structure; or detached accessory $65
structures only
Roofing or siding - townhomes and rental properties up to five units  $60 per unit
Roofing or siding - commercial                                        See M.S. § 326B.153
Window or door replacement (within existing openings)                 $65 for one window or door
                                                                      $100 for two or more windows and/or doors
Telecommunications antenna - new system                               $750 plus engineering/inspection fees if located on city-owned
                                                                      property plus surcharge (see Public Works for further information)
Telecommunications antenna - repairs/ alterations/swapping or adding  $250 per permit plus surcharge
antennas to existing system (city or private property)
COMMERCIAL ELECTRICAL PERMIT
$50 per trip or the fee below, whichever is greater; solar fees are the same as residential solar fees)
Valuation $1 to $1,000                                                $50 per trip
Valuation $1,001 to $2,000                                            $50 for the first $1,000 plus $3.25 for each additional $100 or
                                                                      fraction thereof, to and including $2,000
Valuation $2,001 to $25,000                                           $82 for the first $2,000 plus $14.85 for each additional $1,000 or
                                                                      fraction thereof, to and including $25,000
Valuation $25,001 to $50,000                                          $423.55 for the first $25,000 plus $10.70 for each additional $1,000
                                                                      or fraction thereof, to and including $50,000
Valuation $50,001 to $100,000                                         $691.05 for the first $50,000 plus $7.45 for each additional $1,000 or
                                                                      fraction thereof, to and including $100,000
Valuation $100,001 to $500,000                                        $1,063.55 for the first $100,000 plus $6 for each additional $1,000 or
                                                                      fraction thereof, to and including $500,000
Valuation $500,000 to $1,000,000                                      $3,463.55 for the first $500,000 plus $5.10 for each additional $1,000
                                                                      or fraction thereof, to and including $1,000,000
Valuation $1,000,001 and up                                           $6,013.55 for the first $1,000,000 plus $4 for each additional $1,000
                                                                      or fraction thereof
Reinspection fee (in addition to all other fees)                      $50
Investigation fee (working without permit)                            Double fee
RESIDENTIAL ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES (SINGLE FAMILY HOMES, APARTMENTS, AND CONDOMINIUMS)
HOMEOWNERS AND CONTRACTORS: Complete an electrical permit form available from the Building Inspections Division. Add $1 for state surcharge
to total cost of each permit. The fee is the total of the listed fees or the total number of inspection trips x $50, whichever is greater.
Residential panel replacement                                         $110
Sub panel                                                             $50
New service or power supply (circuits)                                Add $16 for each additional 100 amps
0 to 300 amp                                                          $55
400 amp                                                               $71
New service or power supply (feeders)                                 Add $6 for each additional 100 amps
0 to 100 amp                                                          $9
101-200 amp                                                           $15
Minimum permit fee is $50 plus $1 state surcharge. This is for one inspection only. Minimum fee for rough-in and final inspection is $100
plus $1 state surcharge.
Maximum fee for single-family dwelling or townhouse not over 200 amps (no max if service is over 200 amps) is $200 plus $1 state surcharge.
Maximum of 2 rough-ins and 1 final inspection. (Failed inspections are an additional $50 each)
Apartment or condominium complex (does not cover service, unit        $90 per unit
feeders or house panels)
Swimming pool and hot tub                                             $100 plus circuits at $9/each (includes 2 inspections)
Addition/remodel/basement finish                                      $100 (includes up to 10 circuits and 2 inspections)
Residential accessory structure                                       The greater of $55 for panel plus $9 per circuit or $100 for 2
                                                                      inspections
Street and parking lot lights                                         $5 per each standard
Transformers and generators:                                           
Up to 10 kva                                                          $5
11 to 74 kva                                                          $45
75 kva to 299 kva                                                     $60
Over 299 kva                                                          $165
Retrofit lighting                                                     $0.85 per fixture
Sign transformer or driver                                            $9 per transformer
Low voltage fire alarm, low voltage heating and air conditioning      $0.85 per device
control wiring
Residing jobs                                                         $50 first unit, $35 for each additional unit
Reinspection fee (in addition to all other fees)                      $50
Solar Fees:                                                            
0 kw to 5 kw                                                          $90
5.1 kw to 10 kw                                                       $150
10.1 kw to 20 kw                                                      $225
20.1 kw to 30 kw                                                      $300
30.1 kw to 40 kw                                                      $375
40.01 kw and larger                                                   $375 plus $25 for each additional 10 kw
Electrical inspection fee: furnace, air conditioning, bath fan,       $40
fireplace or receptacle for water heater vent
Refunds must be requesting in writing. No refunds unless more than the minimum fee. Refunds are minus the city's 20% handling fee.
Permit fee is doubled if the work starts before the permit is issued.
Minimum fee permits expire in 6 months.
Permits over the minimum fee and up to $250 expire in 1 year.
Fire inspections (DHS)                                                $50
Fire panel systems                                                    See M.S. § 326B.153
Fire permit (no surcharge), all permits unless noted otherwise        $100
Fireworks display/fireworks sales                                     $100
Fireworks sales only (businesses)                                     $350
Fireworks sales with other retail (businesses)                        $100
Fire permit, temporary tent                                           $50
Fire permit, tank installation (fuel, oil, gas, and the like)         $100 per tank
Fire permit, tank removal                                             $50 per tank
Fire permit, operational                                              $50 per year
Fire permit, chemical fire suppression                                $100
Fire sprinkler systems                                                See M.S. § 326B.153
Fire sprinkler plan check                                             65% of permit (for new construction or 20 heads or more only)
Mechanical permit, residential (state surcharge required, see M.S. § Minimum $60 or 2% of valuation, whichever is larger
326B.148)
Mechanical permit, commercial (state surcharge required, see M.S. §  See M.S. § 326B.153
326B.148)
Plumbing inspection permit, residential and commercial (state         Minimum $60 or 1.25% of valuation, whichever is larger
surcharge required, see M.S. § 326B.148)
Plumbing permit plan review, commercial
Plumbing system plans and specifications that are submitted to the City of Mounds View for review shall be accompanied by the appropriate
plan examination fees shall be paid prior to plan approval. The City of Mounds View shall charge the following fees for plan reviews and
audits of plumbing installations for public, commercial, and industrial buildings:
1. Systems with both water distribution and drain, waste, and vent systems and having:
   a. 25 or fewer drainage fixture units, $150
   b. 26 to 50 drainage fixture units, $250
   c. 51 to 150 drainage fixture units, $350
   d. 151 to 249 drainage fixture units, $500
   e. 250 or more drainage fixture units, $3 per drainage fixture unit to a maximum of $4,000; and
   f. Interceptors, separators, or catch basins, $70 per interceptor, separator, or catch basin design
2. Building sewer service only, $150
3. Building water service only, $150
4. Building water distribution system only, no drainage system, $5 per supply fixture unit or $150,
whichever is greater
5. Storm drainage system, a minimum fee of $150 or:
   a. $50 per drain opening, up to a maximum of $500; and
   b. $70 per interceptor, separator, or catch basin design
6. Manufactured home park or campground, one to 25 sites, $300
7. Manufactured home park or campground, 26 to 50 sites, $350
8. Manufactured home park or campground, 51 to 125 sites, $400
9. Manufactured home park or campground, more than 125 sites, $500
10. Revision to previously reviewed or incomplete plans:
   a. Review of plans for which the city has issued two or more requests for additional information, per
review, $100 or 10% of the original fee, whichever is greater
   b. Proposer-requested revision with no increase in project scope, $50 or 10% of original fee,
whichever is greater
   c. Proposer-requested revision with an increase in project scope, $50 plus the difference between the
original project fee and the revised project fee
Type                                                                  Fee
Zoning Permits (No Surcharge), §
150.050(C)(2)
Patio/deck 30 inches and under, or not attached                          $30
Driveways, sidewalks, parking lots, patios (no permit required for sealcoating or overlays without
expansion). A right-of-way permit is required for any construction that disrupts city-owned streets,
curbing, sidewalks, and the like; residential includes churches and schools.
Residential R-1 or R-2 driveway                                          $45
Residential R-3, R-4 and R-5 driveway or parking lot                     $75
Residential gravel (refer to Zoning Code for limitations)                $25
Commercial/industrial driveway or parking lot                            $150
Commercial/industrial sidewalk or patio                                  $75
Fence/kennel - 7 ft. or below (if higher, building permit; see M.S. §   $30
326B.153)
Retaining wall - 4 ft. or below (if higher, building permit; see M.S. § $30
326B.153)
Shed (200 square feet or less)                                           $30
Signs - billboards (building permit)                                     See M.S. § 326B.153
Signs up to 100 square feet                                              $75
Signs 100 square feet or over                                            $95
Signs - re-facing or altering                                            $40
                                                                         $40 per 21-day period (limit 4
Signs, banners - temporary                                               permits per year plus one
                                                                         additional permit for a banner)
Swimming pools, residential (above ground)                               $30
Swimming pools (in-ground, building permit)                              See M.S. § 326B.153 (surcharge
                                                                         required)
 
II. OTHER INSPECTION/PLANNING FEES
Applicants are responsible for all costs incurred associated with the filing,
review and processing of development applications. Such fees to be paid in
escrow up front or upon receipt of statement from the City of Mounds View. Fees
may include, but are not limited to, costs for consultants retained by the
city, consultant planning services, attorney, and engineer fees. A deposit may
also be required to cover costs of public notices, materials and staff time
spent in the review, research or preparation of materials associated with each
application. The applicant shall be responsible for all reasonable incurred
costs in excess of the initial fee and/or deposit amount. Any portion of the
deposit not spent or encumbered shall be refunded to the applicant within 30
days after consideration of the application is completed. Payment of any park
dedication fees shall be made by the applicant after final plat approval.
Application fees are not refundable.
II. OTHER INSPECTION/PLANNING FEES
   Ty   Fee
II. OTHER INSPECTION/PLANNING FEES
   Type                                       Fee
Building inspections conducted outside normal $63.25/hour (two-hour minimum
business hours                                charge)
Change of address                             $150
Change of occupancy                           $75
Comprehensive plan amendment                  $500
Conditional use permit, R-1 or R-2            $400
Conditional use permit, all other districts   $400
Conditional use permit amendment              Same as CUP fee
Contractor license (§ 150.053)               $60
Contractor state license verification fee     $5 per permit
Development/site plan review                  $400
Escrow - manufactured homes                   $500 per permit
Escrow - occupancy (seed, sod, landscaping;
as-building grading survey; driveway
installation; curb cut modifications; site
clean-up; storm water management; drainage    $1,000 for each item
features; site erosion; right-of-way
restoration; or any other items as determined
by the Building Official)
Escrow, planning (actual charges)             $2,500 - $10,000
Housing inspection initial and one follow-up  No charge (
(includes no shows)                           Chapter 119)
Housing inspection/no show, each additional   $100
Interim use permit (IUP)                      $400
IUP amendment                                 $400
                                              Residential: $3,500 per unit
Park dedication fees                          Non-residential: up to 10% of
                                              estimated market value (of land)
                                              65% of permit fee for all
                                              commercial permits and for
Plan review (payment required before plans    residential permits for new
are reviewed)                                 dwellings, dwelling additions,
                                              garages, garage additions, decks,
                                              sheds over 200 square feet, and
                                              major remodeling.
Plan review for changes, revisions, or        $47/hour (one half-hour minimum
additions to plans                            charge)
Plan review, engineering (applicable to any
project that changes the grade. To be         $100 per permit
determined by staff during application
review).
Plan review for outside consultants for plan  Actual costs including
checking and inspections or both              administrative and overhead costs
Plan review similar (all units are same or    Each unit after the first shall
similar)                                      be 25% or original fee
Planned Unit Development (PUD) (§ 160.300 et $1,000
seq.)
PUD amendment                                 $400
Refund, permits (within 100 days of           All but $40
application if work is not commenced)
Refund, plan review                           100% (if review has not been
                                              done)
Refund, state surcharge                       100%
Rezoning                                      $500
Vacation, street or easement                  $250
Subdivision                                   $750
                                              $1,000 - $10,000 (at the
Subdivision escrow                            discretion of the City
                                              Administrator)
Subdivision (reapproval fee)                  $100
Text amendment, Zoning Code                   $400
Text amendment, other City Code               $400
Variance, administrative R-1 or R-2           $100 (additional $300 if formal
                                              variance is required)
Variance, formal R-1 or R-2                   $400
Variance, all other districts                 $400
Wetland alteration permit, R-1 or R-2         $200
Wetland alteration permit, all other          $350
districts
Wetland buffer permit, R-1 or R-2             $30
Wetland buffer permit, all other districts    $100
Zoning Code review                            $200
Zoning letter                                 $100 per letter
 
III. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
III. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
   Ty   Fee
III. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
   Type                                Fee
Certified copy                         $5 plus copy charges if any
Data request generating over 100 pages Staff time (plus copying charges, if
                                       any)
Data requests with an estimated cost over $25 will require a $25 deposit. The
remainder of payment will be requested at the time of pickup. Once the data
request has been fulfilled and the actual total cost is under $25, the
difference will be refunded at the time of pickup. Data pickup requests will
expire in 30 days from completion of the request. If expired, a new request
and deposit would need to be submitted.
Filing fee for public office           See Mounds View Charter
Insufficient funds (NSF) check         $30
Municipal/City Code, copy              $200
Notary public (Mounds View residents   Free of charge
only)
Photocopy/map, B/W 8½ x 11            Under 10 copies free, additional copies
                                       $0.25 per side
Photocopy/map, B/W 11 x 17             Under 10 copies free, additional copies
                                       $0.50 per side
Photocopy/map, color 8½ x 11          Under 10 copies free, additional copies
                                       $1.00 per side
Photocopy/map, color 11 x 17           Under 10 copies free, additional copies
                                       $2.50 per side
City map, 24 x 36 B/W                  $5
City map, 24 x 36 color                $10
Pending assessment search              $10
Copy data to flash drive (customer     Free
provides new unopened flash drive)
 
IV. POLICE/FIRE/ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
IV. POLICE/FIRE/ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
   Ty   Fee
IV. POLICE/FIRE/ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
   Type                                 Fee
Crime free multi-housing participant    No charge
Fingerprint card                        $20 for first card, $5 each additional
Police report research (if exceeds 100  $50 per hour
pages)
Police report research (under 100       No charge
pages)
Certified copy of report                $5 for certification and $0.25 per page
Clearance letter                        $5
Color computer printed copy             $5 for first page, $1 for each
                                        additional
Electronic copies to digital media      $15 per disc
Impound vehicle storage fee             $15 per day
Annual permit to purchase firearm       No charge
(State of MN application)
First or second replacement permit      No charge
Third and each additional replacement   $20 each
permit
False alarm (police/fire), third false  $50
alarm within 12 months
False alarm (police/fire), each false   $75
alarm in excess of 3 within 12 months
Maintenance-related fire services       $250
(multi-family rental only)
Ignition device - providing to, or in   $50
the possession of, a minor
Administrative Offenses
Animal violation, first violation       $25
within 12 months
Animal violation, second violation      $50
within 12 months
Animal violation, third and subsequent  $75
violations within 12 months
Building Code                           $150
Garbage/trash dumping                   $100
House numbers, not to Code              $25
Junk vehicle                            See property based violations
Junk and debris                         See property based violations
Parks and Recreation (Chapter 92)       $25
Regulated business activity (Title XI)  $150
Property based violation, first offense $150
Property based violation, second        $300
offense within 12 months
Property based violations, third        $450
offense within 12 months
Administrative Hearing                  $50
Watering ban, first violation           Written warning
Watering ban, second violation          $25
Watering ban, third violation           $50
Watering ban, fourth violation          $100
Watering ban, fifth violation           $200
Watering ban, sixth violation           Given to City Attorney for criminal
                                        prosecution
Wetland, altering of (                  $150
Chapter 159)
Zoning Code (                           $150
Chapter 160)
 
V. LICENSES
(All licenses are subject to 20% late fee)
V. LICENSES (All licenses are subject to 20% late fee)
   Ty   Fee
V. LICENSES (All licenses are subject to 20% late fee)
   Type                                 Fee
Adult establishment                     $2,500 per year
                                        $500 per person identified on the
                                        application as an owner, operator or
                                        manager. (If it appears that the
                                        investigative costs will exceed $500,
                                        the City Administrator shall notify the
Adult establishment, investigation fee  applicant and give the applicant an
                                        estimate of costs. The applicant either
                                        shall make an additional deposit equal
                                        to the difference between $500 and the
                                        total estimate or may withdraw the
                                        application)
Automobile sales (                      $225 per year
Chapter 112)
Amusement rides, carnivals, circuses (  $133 first day plus $21 for each
Chapter 111)                            additional day
Bowling alleys (                        $21 per alley per year
Chapter 111)
Christmas tree sales                    $204 per season
Cigarette and tobacco (                 $330 per year
Chapter 118)
Contractor license                      $60 per year
Donation collection bin                 $100 per bin per year
Garbage/recycling/rubbish hauler (      $120 plus $50 per vehicle per year
Chapter 50)
Gasoline stations (                     $75 plus $25 per pump per year
Chapter 112)
Chickens/ducks, keeping of (            $100 first year
Chapter 90)
Chicken/ducks, renewal                  $30 per year
Honeybees, keeping of (                 $50 (one time license)
Chapter 90)
Kennel, dog (5 or more dogs/breeding/   $80 per year
training and/or boarding)
Gambling, lawful (premises permit       $100 per permit
investigation fee)
Gambling, lawful (§                    10% contribution of net profits per
111.128)                                year
Liquor (
Chapter 110)
Bottle club                             $330 per year
Club                                    $330 per year
Investigation fee, renewal license      $50 per year
Investigation fee, single person        $350 (new application)
Investigation fee, partnership          $385 (new application)
Investigation fee, corporation          $450 (new application)
On-sale, brewer taproom                 $800 per year
Off-sale, brewer malt liquor            $200 per year
                                        $0.65 per square foot for that space
                                        used primarily as bar area and $0.53
On-sale, intoxicating                   per square foot for that space used
                                        primarily as dining area with a minimum
                                        fee of $3,000 and a maximum fee of
                                        $10,000
On-sale, intoxicating (movie theaters   $3,000 base fee plus $100 per theater
only)                                   room allowing alcohol
On-sale malt liquor/3.2 beer            $800 per year
Off-sale malt liquor/3.2 beer           $200 per year
On-sale microdistillery                 $800 per year
Off-sale microdistillery                $200 per year
On-sale, Sunday sales                   $200 per year
On-sale wine                            $800 per year
Off-sale intoxicating                   $260 per year
Set ups                                 $330 per year
State of MN AGED buyer's card           $20 (new application only)
Sunday growler sales                    $200 per year
Temporary liquor                        $120 per event (includes background
                                        check)
Rental Dwelling (
Chapter 119)
Administrative fee (multi-family        $30 (active license with no renters)
dwelling)
Single-family dwelling                  $100 per year
New single family rental                $100 per year plus conversion fee
Multi-family rental                     $100 plus $25 per unit per year
Renewal late fee                        10% of license fee (minimum $100)
Reinstatement of a revoked rental       5x rental fee (maximum $3,000) plus
license                                 rental fee
License fee discount, Certification     20% fee reduction
Level C
License fee discount, Certification     33% fee reduction
Level B
License fee discount, Certification     50% fee reduction
Level A
Transfer of license                     $100 per building
Conversion fee (conversion from         $375 in addition to annual license fee.
unlicensed rental to licensed rental,   $100 if owner presents proof of
if 3 or fewer units in one building).   participation in an applicable
Buildings owned by nonprofits are       education or hires a management company
exempt from conversion fee.             for at least a year
Pawn shop (
Chapter 115), non-refundable            $500
application fee (includes investigation
fee)
Pawn shop, new manager investigation    $150
fee
Pawn shop, license                      $10,000 per year (pro-rated in 30-day
                                        increments after June 30)
Pawn shop, billable transaction         $1.50 per transaction
Pawn shop, performance bond             $10,000
Pawn shop, failure to provide daily     $100 per day
report to city
Peddler/transient merchants/solicitor ( $65 per day
Chapter 113) permits                    $225 per month
                                        $600 per year
Registered person (under the main       $15 each person/year
applicant)                              $10 each person/month
                                        $5 each person/day
Peddler investigation fee, per person   No charge (included in permit fee)
Peddler ID card, per person             No charge (included in permit fee)
Recuperation/half way house (           $33 per year
Chapter 114) less than 10 beds
Recuperation/halfway house, 10-49 beds  $55 per year
Recuperation/halfway house, 50-99 beds  $82 per year
Recuperation/halfway house, over 100    $110 per year
beds
Restaurant, Class A (occupancy load
greater than 100) (                     $320 per year
Chapter 111), operating 16 hours per
day or less
Restaurant, Class A (occupancy load
greater than 100), operating more than  $560 per year
16 hours per day
Restaurant, Class B (occupancy load of
100 or less), operating 16 hours per    $204 per year
day or less
Restaurant, Class B (occupancy load 100
or less), operating more than 16 hours  $337 per year
per day
Therapeutic massage (                   $255 per year (pro-rated in 30-day
Chapter 114), enterprise                increments after June 30)
Therapeutic massage, each therapist     $102 per year (pro-rated in 30-day
                                        increments after June 30)
Therapeutic massage investigation,      $100 new application; $50 per year
individual                              renewal
Therapeutic massage investigation,      $350 per year
partnership or corporation
Therapeutic massage, temporary          $100
 
VI. PARKS, RECREATION, AND MOUNDS VIEW COMMUNITY CENTER (MVCC) FEES
The City Administrator may waive the rental fees for charitable events held for
the benefit of Mounds View residents upon receiving a written request outlining
the nature of such event.
   R/NP = Resident/Non-Profit
   NR = Non-Resident
   S/PS = Schools/Public Sector
 2025         2026         (2027 Proposed)
 Hourly Daily Hourly Daily Hourly Daily
            2025                  2026                  (2027 Proposed)
            Hourly    Daily       Hourly    Daily       Hourly    Daily
   Event Center and Meeting Rooms
Event
Center 1/
6 seats 50
(Class 1
excludes
set up
services in $27 S/PS              $29 S/PS              $32 S/PS
event       $44 R/NP  NA          $47 R/NP  NA          $50 R/NP  NA
center or   $56 NR                $59 NR                $62 NR
additional
set up in
multi-
purposes
rooms and
gymnasium)
Event
Center 1/3,
seats 100
(Class 1
excludes
set up
services in $43 S/PS              $46 S/PS              $50 S/PS
event       $72 R/NP  NA          $76       NA          $80 R/NP  NA
center or   $82 NR                $86                   $90 NR
additional
set up in
multi-
purpose
rooms and
gymnasium)
*Full Event
Center,
seats 400
(Class I
excludes
set up
services in
event
center or
additional
set up in
multi-
purpose
rooms and   $124 S/PS $825 S/PS   $130 S/PS $865 S/PS   $137 S/PS $910 S/PS
gymnasium)  $196 R/NP $1,965 R/NP $207 R/NP $2,075 R/NP $217 R/NP $2,175 R/NP
*Fri, Sat,  $216 NR   $2,165 NR   $227 NR   $2,275 NR   $237 NR   $2,375 NR
Sun, and
Mon-Thurs
after 6:00
p.m.
*Mon-Thurs
7:00 a.m. -
6:00 p.m.,
R and NR
Subtract
$400 from
daily total
S/PS cost
remains at
daily rate
Multi-
purpose
rooms -
Aspen**,
Birch;
seating up
to 20 (for
multi-
purposes
rooms and
gymnasium
rentals, if
the MVCC is $17 S/PS              $18 S/PS
not         $28 R/NP  NA          $30 R/NP  NA                    
otherwise   $38 NR                $40 NR
open, the
permit
holder will
be charged
an
additional
$20 per
hour for
staffing)
**$100
damage
deposit
required.
Multi-
purpose
room -
Pine**,
seating up
to 40, 2-
hour
minimum
rental.
(For multi-
purpose
rooms and
gymnasium
rentals, if $27 S/PS              $28 S/PS
the MVCC is $44 R/NP  NA          $48 R/NP  NA                    
not         $56 NR                $58 NR
otherwise
open, the
permit
holder will
be charged
an
additional
$20 per
hours for
staffing)
**$100
damage
deposit
required.
 
Miscellaneous MVCC charges - *Items subject to class rate pricing
Type Fee
Miscellaneous MVCC charges - *Items subject to class rate pricing
Type                                 Fee
Lobby                                $25 per hour or $150 per day
Bar                                  $20
Fabric backdrop                      $150
Backdrop lighting                    $100
Coffee pot and carafes               $25
Table linens                         $3 each
Napkins                              $0.15 each
Prep kitchen                         $150 per day
Kitchen                              $200 per day
Sound package - microphone and up to $75*
4 speakers
Visual package - screen and          $75*
projector
A/V package - sound package and      $125*
visual package
MVCC Daily Admission                 MVCC Monthly Membership
Youth                                $12 R
   $3 R                           $22 NR
   $5 NR
Adult                                $25 R
   $5 R                           $35 NR
   $7 NR
Family                               $40 R
   NA                             $50 NR
Gymnasium Rental
                                     $140 NR
Full gym, hourly                     $95 R/NP
                                     $73 S/PS
Full gym, all day (8:00 a.m. to 8:00 $1,500 NR
p.m.)                                $975 R/NP
                                     $750 S/PS
                                     $75 NR
Half gym, hourly                     $50 R/NP
                                     $40 S/PS
Gym rental staffing, hourly          $20
Athletic Field Rentals               Reservations Begin
Level 1 - City of Mounds View and    February 1 - 7
Community Center
Level 2 - School District 621/Mounds
View Recognized Youth Athletic       February 8 - 14
Association
Level 3 - Recognized youth athletic  February 15 - 21
associations
Level 4 - Other Mounds View resident February 21
community groups
Level 5 - All other individuals or   February 21
groups
Fees are based upon an individual event/game/practice. Field reservations may
be limited depending upon the number of teams and fields available. Mounds View
staff will set a seasonal field use policy that may affect field availability.
Baseball/softball fields: Hillview,  (Includes local athletic associations)
Groveland, Greenfield, Lambert,      $8 S/PS
Silver View and City Hall Parks      $16 R/NP
                                     $24 NR
                                     (Includes local athletic associations)
Soccer fields (youth only), Oakwood  $6 S/PS
Parks (per field)                    $14 R/NP
                                     $22 NR
                                     (Includes local athletic associations)
Soccer/lacrosse Silver View          $8 S/PS
                                     $16 R/NP
                                     $24 NR
Lighting fee for softball field,     $20 per 2-hour time block
Level 1, 2 or 3
Lighting fee for softball field,     $30 per 2-hour time block
Level 4
Lighting fee for softball field,     $40 per 2-hour time block
Level 5
Tournament fee per day (in addition  $100
to rental rates)
                                     $55 R/NP and $110 NR per day
                                     $25 refundable key deposit
Park shelter/building rental:        $200 refundable damage deposit
Hillview and Lakeside Per day = 10:  $200 service fee (groups of 50 or more or
00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.                in excess of 10 trash bags)
                                     Should the event go past the agreed rental
                                     period, a 2-hour public works call-out fee
                                     will be incurred.
                                     $100 R/NP and $200 NR per day
                                     $25 refundable key deposit
Park shelter/building rental,        $200 refundable damage deposit
Groveland, Lambert, Random and       $200 service fee (groups of 50 or more or
Silver View*                         in excess of 10 trash bags)
Per day = 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.   Should the event go past the agreed rental
                                     period, a 2-hour public works call-out fee
                                     will be incurred.
*Large group rental (200+) at Silver
View Shelter includes the volleyball
and basketball courts, horseshoe
pits and 100 ft. around building.    $500 for 12 hours**
Non-profit organizations and Night
to Unite groups may be eligible for
a reduced fees (see policy below).
City Hall Park Pavilion rentals      $40 for 4 hours (No back-to-back rentals)
**NON-PROFIT POLICY:
1.   Non-profit entities duly registered in the State of Minnesota with active
status as denoted on the Minnesota Secretary of State registry that has real
property or a physical presence and provide a measurable benefit to the City of
Mounds View can submit a written request to the City Administrator that $500
fee be waived.
2.   Only one waived fee per year per non-profit is allowed.
3.   Non-profits making and receiving the waiver are still required to submit a
$200 security deposit to cover damages and cleaning.
4.   Non-profits making and receiving the waiver must clean the facility and
remove all trash or will forfeit their $200 deposit.
5.   Residents/neighborhood groups requesting use of a park facility for Night
to Unite are required to pay the $25 security deposit for the key and sign a
use agreement that details cleanup and usage requirements.
 
VII. PUBLIC WORKS RELATED FEES
VII. PUBLIC WORKS RELATED FEES
   Ty   Fee
VII. PUBLIC WORKS RELATED FEES
   Type                                 Fee
Call-Out Rate Schedule Based on Current Wages
Normal business hours for call-out      7:00 am to 3:30 pm, Monday through
rates                                   Friday
After hours call-out rate, specified
time conducted outside normal business  $100/hr. (minimum 2 hours)
hours
Holiday call-out rate, specified time   $150/hr. (minimum 2 hours)
conducted on holidays
Right-Of-Way Management Fees (
Chapter 54). Additional fees may be required for legal and engineering costs
incurred by the city). All issued right-of-way permits will include a $200
administrative fee.
Excavation, hole fees, boulevard areas  $100 per hole
Excavation, hole fees, pavement areas   $200 per hole
Excavation, underground utility work,   $50 per 100 lineal feet (requires hole
open trenching - boulevard areas open   fee)
Excavation, underground utility work,   $70 per 100 lineal feet (requires hole
open trenching - pavement areas         fee)
Excavation, trenchless installation     $35 per 100 lineal feet (requires hole
                                        fee)
Excavation, overhead installation       $25 per 100 lineal feet
Obstruction, new pavement               $100 per obstruction
Obstruction, replace existing           $50 per obstruction
obstruction (in-kind)
Temporary obstruction, dumpster,        $25 per obstruction
portable restroom, and the like
Temporary obstruction, equipment used   No charge
for excavation
Miscellaneous ROW Management Fees and Costs (discount for work done pertaining
to city project; additional fees may be required for legal and engineering
costs incurred by the city)
Street opening permit (requires         $200
deposit)
Street opening deposit                  To be determined by the Director of
                                        Public Works
Registration fee (ROW users and         $30
registrants)
Permit extension                        $30
Delay penalty                           10% of ROW permit
Degradation fee                         Calculated at time of permit
Restoration cost                        Calculated at time of permit
Overhead utility line repair            No charge
Penalty for work done without a permit  Double fee 50%
Municipal Water System Fees (
Chapter 51)
Water Availability Charge (WAC),        $500 per unit
residential
WAC charge, commercial/industrial       $1,000 per acre of developable land
                                        ($1,000 minimum charge)
Residential water usage base charge     $28.60 per quarter
Residential water - 0 to 12,000 gallons $2.85 per 1,000 gallons per quarter
Residential water - 12,001 to 24,000    $3.14 per 1,000 gallons per quarter
gallons
Residential water - over 24,000 gallons $3.61 per 1,000 gallons per quarter
Commercial water usage base charge      $28.60 per quarter
Commercial water - 0 to 125,000 gallons $2.85 per 1,000 gallons per quarter
Commercial water - 125,001 to 700,000   $3.14 per 1,000 gallons per quarter
gallons
Commercial water - 700,001 to 1,100,000 $3.61 per 1,000 gallons per quarter
gallons
Commercial water - Over 1,100,000       $4.51 per 1,000 gallons per quarter
gallons
Water quality testing charge (state)    $2.43 per connection per quarter
Water service line repair insurance     $13 per connection per quarter
charge
Failure to participate or grant access
regarding Public Works ordinance        $175 per connection per quarter
programs (installation/repair/inspect/
replace)
Utility bill late payment               10% of delinquent bill amount
Utility bill assessment search          $10
Water service connection/repair/
disconnect                              $100 plus surcharge
size less than 4 inches
Water service connection/repair/
disconnect                              $150 plus surcharge
size over 4 inches
Water service inspection or             After hours call-out rate per visit
reinspection after hours                (minimum 2 hours)
Manual water meter read                 After hours call-out rate per visit
Hydrant meter deposit                   $2,500
Hydrant meter rental (one week minimum) $50 per week
                                        $150 per month
                                        No charge during normal business hours,
Water shut-off/turn-on                  otherwise one hour at call-out rate per
                                        visit
Water shut-off/turn-on (snowbirds)      $50 per shut-off
                                        $50 per turn-on
Water meter testing                     Call-out rate per visit (minimum 2
                                        hours)
Water testing                           One hour at call-out rate
Water meter                             City cost plus 10% administrative fee
Curb stop - valve cover                 City cost plus 10% administrative fee
Municipal Sanitary Sewer System Fees (
Chapter 52)
I/I application fee - H20PP program     $150 per lateral line
Sewer Service Availability Charge (SAC) $2,485 per Metropolitan Council
                                        Environmental Services
Sewer usage rate                        $3.75 per 1,000 gallons water sold per
                                        quarter
Sewer service charge, residential       $47.06 per residential equivalent unit
                                        (REU) connection per quarter
Sewer service charge, commercial/
industrial/public buildings and         $115.58 per REU connection per quarter
churches
Sewer connection/repair/disconnect      $100 plus surcharge
Sewer unit charge (new connection only) $150 per connection
Sewer inspection or re-inspection after Call-out rate per visit (minimum 2
hours                                   hours)
Surface Water Management (SWM) Utility Fees (
Chapter 53)
SWM new construction, R-1               $212 per lot
SWM new construction, R-2               $1,038 per acre
SWM new construction, R-3, R-4, R-O     $1,500 per acre
SWM new construction, B-1, B-2, B-3, B- $1,500 per acre
4
SWM new construction, I-1, PUD          $2,096 per acre
SWM utility rate charge, R-1 Single-
Family and R-2 Single and Two-Family    $18.50 per unit per quarter
Residential
SWM utility rate charge, R-3 Medium     $101.02 per acre per quarter
Density Residential
SWM utility rate charge, R-4 High
Density Residential, R-5 Mobile Homes   $119.79 per acre per quarter
and R-O Residential Office
SWM utility rate charge, B-
1 Neighborhood Business, B-2 Limited    $156.91 per acre per quarter
Business, B-3 Highway Business and B-
4 Regional Business
SWM utility rate charge, I-1 Industrial $127.14 per acre per quarter
SWM utility rate charge, PUD Planned    $138.94 per acre per quarter
Unit Development
SWM utility rate charge, CRP
Conservancy, Recreation and             $18.50 per acre per quarter
Preservation
SWM utility rate charge, school or      $56.38 per acre per quarter
church, public or private
Illicit discharge fee                   To be determined by the Public Works
                                        Director on a case-by-case scenario.
Storm Water Management (The permit fee schedule adopted 12/08/2021 by the Rice
Creek Watershed District Board. The fee for a permit is the cumulative total of
all individual aspects of a project. Government entities are exempt from the
permit fees).
Rule C (Storm Water Management):
                                        $3,000 non-refundable fee due at time
Residential, commercial, industrial,    of application.
institutional development that proposes Once application review costs (district
less than 5 acres of new and/or         engineer and legal counsel) exceed
reconstructed impervious surface        $9,000*, any additional cost must be
                                        reimbursed by the applicant before the
                                        permit can be issued.
                                        $5,400 non-refundable fee due at time
Residential, commercial, industrial,    of application.
institutional development that proposes Once application review costs (district
5 or more acres of new and/or           engineer and legal counsel) exceed
reconstructed impervious surface        $9,000*, any additional cost must be
                                        reimbursed by the applicant before the
                                        permit can be issued.
Notes: An application subject to a Rule C fee is exempt from the non-Rule C fee
of $300.
The following is exempt from the Rule C fee and subject to only the non-Rule C
fee of $300: single-family residential subdivision that creates seven or fewer
lots and establishes no new public roadway or a private roadway/driveway
serving three or more lots
Non-Rule C fee: A $300 non-refundable fee is due at the time of application for
a project subject to one or more of the following Rules:
                  Rule D (Erosion and Sediment Control Plans)
                  Rule E (Floodplain Alteration)
                  Rule F (Wetland Alteration)
                  Rule G (Regional Conveyance Systems)
                  Rule I (Public Drainage Systems)
                  Rule J (Appropriation of Public Waters)
Rule L (Variances):                     Variable. See district permit variance
                                        guidance policy
* Review cost is calculated according to the consultant hourly rate, which the
District will publish annually. The review cost incurred between the non-
refundable fee amount and $9,000 will be absorbed by the District and will not
be the responsibility of the applicant. District staff will notify the
applicant of the incurred cost to date once the total review cost exceeds
$7,500, and at subsequent $3,000 intervals. A delay in notice, however, will
not affect the applicant's reimbursement responsibility
Surface Water Management (SWM) Utility Fees (
Chapter 53) (Cont’d)
Storm water connection/repair/          $100 plus surcharge
disconnect
Storm water inspection or re-inspection Call-out rate per visit (minimum 2
after hours. Percolation tests during   hours)
work hours only.
Street Lighting Utility Fees (§
152.018)
Residential (single-family homes,
duplexes, fourplexes, condominium and   $5.25 per unit per quarter
townhomes)
Commercial/industrial                   $24.58 per acre per quarter
Institutional/charitable                $24.58 per acre per quarter
Apartments                              $24.58 per acre per quarter
Construction Site and Land Disturbance Fees (§
156.006). Additional fees may be required for legal and engineering costs
incurred by the city.
50 to 1,000 cubic yards                 $150
1,001 to 10,000 cubic yards             $250 base fee plus $35 for each 1,000
                                        cubic yards
10,001 to 100,000 cubic yards           $500 base fee plus $100 for each 10,000
                                        cubic yards
100,001 cubic yards or more             $1,500 base fee plus $250 for each
                                        100,000 cubic yards
Other Miscellaneous Public Works Fees
Load limit waiver (must be authorized   $175 per trip
by the Public Works Director)
                                        Call-out rate per visit (minimum 2
Call-out charge for contractor          hours) plus cost(s)* of any materials
negligence (lack of maintenance,        required to remedy the issue. *TBD by
traffic signs, and the like)            the Director of Public Works/Parks and
                                        Recreation
Water tower telecommunications          No charge if during normal business
maintenance or repair access fee        hours, otherwise 2 hour minimum charge
                                        for each after hours call-out
Water tower telecommunications plan     Actual legal and consulting engineering
review and inspections                  costs plus $200 for administration
                                        costs and $2,500 escrow.
RPZ annual inspection violation         See property based violations, Section
                                        IV, Police/Administrative Offenses
Appeal of public improvement bond       $250 (M.S. § 429.036)
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites                    Code Section
10A.14                        110.017
15.72                         37.042
15.73, subd. 3                54.003
18.022, subd. 9               153.002
Ch. 18G                       153.001
35.71                         90.004
60A.07, subd. 4               110.021;
                              110.051
60A.206                       110.021;
                              110.051
84.81 to 84.911               72.001;
                              72.999
89.001                        153.001
89.01                         153.001
89.51 through 89.64           153.001
Ch. 103B                      159.005
103B.201 through 103B.255     155.005
Ch. 103F                      154.001
Ch. 103G                      154.056
103G.005, subd. 14            154.025
116.07                        91.007
Ch. 117                       Charter, 9.01
144.50 to 144.56              114.035
144.50 through 144.69         114.002
144.383                       51.011
144.391                       118.001
144.411 et seq.               114.012
144.4167, subd. 4             118.033
Ch. 146B                      111.104
152.02, Schedules I through V 117.002
161.45                        55.002;
                              55.003
161.242                       91.001
Ch. 168                       70.001
168.10                        91.001
Ch. 169                       70.001;
                              92.008
169.041                       91.001;
                              91.007
169.80 through 169.88         70.003
169.468 to 169.75             91.001
169.825, subd. 10             50.006
169.999                       10.998
Ch. 171                       70.001
176.001 et seq.               31.006
176.011, subd. 9, clause 6    31.006
200.039                       Charter, 5.01
205.10, subd. 3a              Charter, 4.05
205.13, subd. la              Charter, 4.02
205.13, subd. 4               Charter, 4.02
205.16                        Charter, 4.05
211B.045                      161.020
216B.02                       54.003
216B.02, subd. 4 and 6        54.003;
                              55.002
216B.36                       55.003
Ch. 216D                      54.020
216D.01 through 216D.09       54.031;
                              54.051
216D.04, subd. 3              54.003
222.37                        55.003
237.16                        54.001
237.79                        54.001
237.81                        54.001
                              54.001;
237.162                       54.003;
                              54.045;
                              55.003
237.162, subd. 3              55.002
237.162, subd. 4              54.003;
                              55.002
                              54.001;
237.163                       54.003;
                              54.045;
                              55.003
Ch. 238                       54.003
238.02, subd. 3               55.002
238.084                       55.003
238.086                       54.001
243.166                       119.004;
                              132.005
243.167                       132.005
244.052                       132.002
Ch. 253B                      132.002
275.065                       Charter, 7.04;
                              7.06
278.01 through 278.13         114.010
300.03                        55.003
Ch. 308A                      54.003;
                              55.002
325F.732, subd. 2             115.002
Ch. 325J                      115.015
326B.43, subd. 2(n)           150.008
326B.103, subd. 11            150.008
326B.103, subd. 13            150.008
326B.121                      150.008
326B.148                      Appendix A
326B.153                      Appendix A
Ch. 327                       160.012
327.31 to 327.34              160.150
327C.095                      151.001
333.02                        114.006
                              110.017;
                              110.029;
Ch. 340A                      110.030;
                              110.051;
                              110.055
340A.285                      110.017
340A.301                      110.017;
                              110.026
340A.304                      110.051
340A.310                      110.015
340A.404, subd. 5             110.017
340A.410, subd. 7             110.015
340A.413, subd. 1             110.017
340A.414                      110.017;
                              110.051
340A.419                      110.017
340A.503, subd. 6             118.999
340A.510                      110.025
Ch. 342                       121.001—
                              121.003
342.01                        133.001,
                              133.003
342.13                        121.004;
                              121.005
342.22                        121.002
342.22, subd. 5(e)            121.005
342.27, subd. 7(a)            121.007
342.32                        121.003
346.35 through 346.44         160.183
                              110.027;
                              110.051;
Ch. 349                       111.115;
                              111.126;
                              115.014
349.11                        111.119;
                              111.999
349.12                        111.117
349.12, subd. 7a              111.128
349.16                        111.128
                              111.118;
349.166                       111.119;
                              111.121
                              110.027;
Ch. 349A                      110.051;
                              115.014
364.03                        114.014
364.03, subd. 2               114.009
364.03, subd. 3               114.009
366.011                       Charter, 8.06
366.012                       Charter, 8.06
410.12                        Charter, 5.09
410.20                        Charter, 5.01
412.261                       Charter, 7.11
415.01                        Charter, 8.06
Ch. 429                       Charter, 7.03
429.041                       37.040
429.021                       37.007
429.036                       Appendix A
429.061, subd. 3              37.063
429.101                       Charter, 8.06
444.075                       37.006;
                              53.001
444.075, subd. 3              52.047
Ch. 453                       54.003
Ch. 453A                      54.003
461.12, subd. 2               118.999
Ch. 462                       154.001;
                              159.007
462.351 to 462.365            160.002
462.357                       116.001
462.357, subd. 3              160.450
462.357, subd. 7              160.086
462.358                       158.003;
                              158.061
462.361                       158.061
462.3593                      160.058
462.3593, subd. 9             160.058
462.3597                      160.057
Ch. 463                       117.008
463.15 through 463.26         160.400;
                              160.401
469.174 to 469.1799           Charter, 703
469.190                       36.047
471.62                        10.019
471.345                       37.040
473.121, subd. 24             52.047
Ch. 475                       36.015;
                              37.088
475.55                        36.015
                              36.015;
475.61                        37.089;
                              37.091
475.65                        37.085
475.66                        36.015
475.74                        36.015
475.754                       Charter, 7.03
500, 30                       160.437
Ch. 505                       158.020;
                              160.319
505.01 et seq.                158.004
505.03                        160.319
505.03, subd. 1               160.319
Ch. 515                       160.012;
                              160.316
515.01 et seq.                158.003
Ch. 515A                      160.012;
                              160.316
Ch. 541                       37.093
561.01                        90.004
607.07, subd. 3               91.001
Ch. 609                       130.001
609.02                        130.001
609.02, subd. 6.              130.001
609.05                        130.001
609.06                        130.001
609.085                       130.001
609.17                        130.001
609.26                        130.001
609.26, subd. 1(8)            119.004
609.28                        130.001
609.033                       130.001
609.034                       130.001
609.34                        130.001
609.37                        130.001
609.40                        130.001
609.45                        130.001
609.50                        119.004;
                              130.001
609.51                        130.001
609.52                        130.001
609.53                        130.001
609.65                        130.001
609.71                        119.004
609.72                        119.004;
                              130.001
609.74                        119.004;
                              130.001
609.75                        130.001
609.75 through 609.763        111.119;
                              111.999
609.75, subd. 8               110.015;
                              110.045
609.77                        130.001
609.78                        119.004;
                              130.001
609.79                        130.001
609.80                        130.001
609.81                        130.001
609.82                        130.001
609.175                       130.001
609.221 through 609.2224      119.004
609.224                       130.001
609.226                       119.004
609.321                       130.001
609.324                       130.001
609.342                       132.002
609.343                       132.002
609.344                       132.002
609.345                       132.002
609.352                       132.002
609.365                       132.002
609.375                       130.001
609.415                       130.002
609.435                       130.001
609.475                       130.001
609.485                       130.001
609.505                       130.001
609.515                       130.001
609.525                       130.001
609.535                       130.001
609.541                       130.001
609.545                       130.001
609.556                       130.001
609.576                       130.001
609.595                       119.004;
                              130.001
609.605                       130.001
609.606                       130.001
609.615                       130.001
609.705                       119.004;
                              130.001
609.713                       119.004
609.715                       119.004;
                              130.001
609.735                       130.001
609.746                       130.001
609.755                       130.001
609.761, subd. 4              110.027;
                              110.051
609.775                       130.001
609.785                       130.001
609.795                       130.001
609.805                       130.001
609.815                       130.001
617.23                        132.002
617.246                       132.002
617.247                       132.002
617.293                       132.002
Ch. 645                       10.005
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Code Section
Prior Code Code Section
101.01     10.001
101.02     10.001
101.03     10.018
101.05     10.021
101.06     10.019
102.01     10.012
102.02     10.013
102.03     10.020
102.04     10.006
102.05     10.022
103.01     10.005
103.02     10.005
103.03     10.004
104.01     10.999
104.02     10.999
105.01     31.001
105.02     31.002
105.03     31.003
105.04     31.004
105.05     30.005
105.06     31.006
106.01     32.001
106.02     32.002
106.03     32.015
106.04     32.016
107.01     34.001
107.02     34.002
108.01     30.001
113.01     114.031
113.02     114.030
113.03     114.032
113.04     114.032
113.05     114.033
113.06     114.035
113.07     114.036
113.08     114.999
201.01     36.001
202.01     37.001—
           37.003
202.02     37.004
202.03     37.005
202.04     37.006
202.05     37.007
202.06     37.008
202.07     37.020—
           37.028
202.08     37.040—
           37.044
202.09     37.060
202.10     37.061
202.11     37.062
202.12     37.063
202.13     37.064
202.14     37.065
202.15     37.066
202.16     37.067
202.17     37.068
202.18     37.069
202.19     37.085—
           37.093
202.20     37.070
203.01     36.015
203.02     36.016
203.04     36.017
203.05     36.018
203.07     36.019
203.08     36.020
204.01     36.035
204.02     36.036
204.03     36.037
204.04     36.038
204.05     36.039
204.06     36.040
204.07     36.041
204.08     36.042
204.09     36.043
204.10     36.044
204.11     36.045
204.12     36.046
204.13     36.999
204.14     36.047
204.15     36.048
301.01     32.003
401.01     33.001
401.02     33.002
401.03     33.003
401.04     33.004
401.05     33.005
401.06     33.006
401.07     33.007
401.08     33.008
401.10     33.009
401.11     33.010
401.12     33.011
402.01     33.025
405.01     33.060
405.02     33.061
405.03     33.062
405.04     33.063
405.05     33.064
405.06     33.065
405.07     33.066
405.08     33.067
405.09     33.068
501.01     110.001
501.02     110.002
501.03     110.999
501.06     110.020
501.07     110.021
501.08     110.022
501.09     110.023
501.10     110.024
502.01     110.015
502.02     110.016
502.03     110.017
502.04     110.018
502.05     110.019
502.11     110.025
502.12     110.026
502.13     110.027
502.14     110.028
502.15     110.029
502.16     110.030
502.17     110.999
503.01     110.045
503.02     110.046
503.03     110.047
503.04     110.048
503.05     110.049
503.06     110.050
503.07     110.051
503.08     110.052
503.09     110.053
503.10     110.054
503.11     110.055
503.12     110.999
504.00     113.001
504.01     113.002
504.02     113.003
504.03     113.004
504.04     113.005
504.05     113.006
504.06     113.007
504.07     113.008
504.08     113.009
504.09     113.010
504.10     113.011
504.11     113.012
504.12     113.013
504.13     113.014
504.14     113.999
505.01     111.001
505.02     111.002
505.03     111.003
505.04     111.004
505.05     111.005
505.06     111.999
507.01     111.045
507.02     111.046
507.03     111.047
507.04     111.048
507.05     111.049
507.06     111.050
507.07     111.999
508.01     111.065
508.02     111.066
508.03     111.067
508.04     111.068
508.05     111.069
508.06     111.070
508.07     111.071
508.08     111.999
509.01     112.001
509.02     112.002
509.03     112.003
509.04     112.004
509.05     112.005
509.06     112.006
509.07     112.999
510.01     112.020
510.02     112.021
510.03     112.022
510.04     112.023
510.05     112.024
510.06     112.025
510.07     112.999
511.05     114.034
512.01     118.001
512.02     118.002
           118.020 ;
512.03     118.021;
           118.023—
           118.035
512.04     118.036
512.05     118.037
512.06     118.003
512.07     118.004
512.08     118.005
512.09     118.006
512.10     118.007
512.11     118.999
512.12     118.038
512.13     118.039
513.01     116.001
513.02     116.002
513.03     116.003
513.04     116.004
513.05     116.005
513.06     116.006;
           116.999
514.01     114.001
514.02     114.002
514.03     114.003
514.04     114.004
514.05     114.005
514.06     114.006
514.07     114.007
514.08     114.008
514.09     114.009
514.10     114.010
514.11     114.011
514.12     114.012
514.13     114.013
514.14     114.014
514.15     114.015
514.16     114.016
514.17     114.999
515.01     111.100
515.02     111.101
515.03     111.102
515.04     111.103
515.05     111.104
515.06     111.999
516.01     115.001
516.02     115.002
516.03     115.003
516.04     115.004
516.05     115.005
516.06     115.006
516.07     115.007
516.08     115.008
516.09     115.009
516.10     115.010
516.11     115.011
516.12     115.012
516.13     115.013
516.14     115.014
516.15     115.015
518.01     111.115
518.02     111.116
518.03     111.117
518.04     111.118
518.05     111.119
518.06     111.120
518.07     111.121
518.08     111.122
518.09     111.123
518.10     111.124
518.11     111.125
518.12     111.126
518.13     111.127
518.14     111.999
519.01     113.025
519.02     113.026
519.03     113.027
519.04     113.028
519.05     113.029
519.06     113.030
519.07     113.031
519.08     113.032
519.09     113.999
520.01     111.140
520.02     111.141
520.03     111.142
520.04     111.143
520.05     111.144
520.06     111.145
520.07     111.146
520.08     111.144
520.09     111.999
602.01     35.001
602.02     35.002
602.03     35.004
602.04     35.005
603.01     50.001
603.02     50.002
603.03     50.003
603.04     50.004
603.05     50.005
603.06     50.006
603.07     50.999
605.01     153.001
605.02     153.002
605.03     153.003
605.04     153.004
605.05     153.005
605.06     153.006
605.07     153.007
605.08     153.008
605.09     153.009
605.10     153.999
606.01     91.020
606.02     91.021
606.03     91.022
606.04     91.023
606.05     91.999
607.01     91.001
607.03     91.003
607.04     91.004
607.05     91.005
607.06     91.006;
           91.999
607.07     91.007
607.08     91.008
607.09     91.009;
           91.999
608.01     116.020
608.02     116.021
608.03     116.022
608.04     116.023
608.05     116.024
608.06     116.025
608.07     116.999
609.01     117.001
609.02     117.002
609.03     117.003
609.04     117.004
609.05     117.005
609.06     117.006
609.07     117.007
609.08     117.008
609.09     117.009
609.10     117.010
609.11     117.011
609.12     117.999
610.01     111.085
610.02     111.086
610.03     111.087
610.04     111.088
610.05     111.089
610.06     111.999
701.02     90.001
701.03     90.002
701.04     90.003
701.05     90.004
701.06     90.005
701.07     90.006
701.08     90.999
702.01     130.001
702.02     130.002
           131.001—
703.01     131.003;
           131.999
801.01     70.001
801.02     70.002
801.03     70.003
801.04     70.004
801.05     70.999
802.01     71.001
802.02     71.002
802.03     71.003
802.04     71.004
802.05     71.005
802.06     71.006
802.07     71.007
802.08     Ch. 73, Schd. I
802.09     71.008
802.10     71.009
802.11     71.999
803.01     72.001
803.02     72.002
803.03     72.003
803.04     72.999
902.01     152.001
902.02     152.002
902.03     152.003
902.04     152.004
902.05     152.999
903.01     150.020
903.02     150.021
903.03     150.022
904.01     152.015
904.02     152.016
904.03     152.017
904.04     152.018
906.01     51.001
906.02     51.002
906.03     51.003
906.04     51.040—
           51.044
906.05     51.004
906.06     51.005
906.07     51.006
906.08     51.025—
           51.029
906.10     51.007
906.11     51.008
906.12     51.009
906.13     51.055—
           51.063
906.14     51.010
906.15     51.999
907.01     52.001
907.02     52.002
907.03     52.003
907.04     52.004
907.05     52.005
           52.025—
907.06     52.030;
           52.999
907.07     52.006
907.08     52.007
907.09     52.008
907.10     52.009
907.11     52.010
907.12     52.011
907.13     52.012
907.14     52.045—
           52.047
908.01     53.001;
           53.002
908.02     53.003
908.03     53.004
908.04     53.005
908.05     53.006
908.06     53.007
908.07     53.008
908.08     53.009
908.09     53.010
908.10     53.011
909.01     92.001
909.02     92.002
909.03     92.003
909.04     92.004
909.05     92.005
909.06     92.006
909.07     92.007
909.08     92.008
909.09     92.999
909.10     92.009
911.01     55.001;
           55.003
911.02     55.002
911.04     55.004
911.05     55.005
911.06     55.006
911.07     55.007
911.08     55.008
911.09     55.009
912.01     157.001
912.02     157.002
912.03     157.003
912.04     157.004
912.05     157.005
912.06     157.006
912.07     157.007
912.08     157.008
912.09     157.009
912.10     157.010
912.11     157.999
912.12     157.999
1001.01    150.001
1001.02    150.002
1001.03    150.003
1001.04    150.004
1001.05    150.005
1001.06    150.999
1001.07    150.006
1001.08    150.007
1002.01    150.065
1002.02    150.066
1002.03    150.067;
           150.999
1002.04    150.068
1002.05    150.069
1002.07    150.070;
           150.999
1002.08    150.071
1002.09    150.072
1002.10    150.073
1002.11    150.999
1005.01    150.085
1005.02    150.086
1006.01    150.050
1006.02    150.051
1006.03    150.052
1006.04    150.053;
           150.054
1006.07    150.999
1007.01    150.035
1007.02    150.036
1007.03    150.037
1008.005   161.001
           161.002;
1008.01    161.020;
           161.035
1008.011   161.003
1008.012   161.004
1008.013   161.005
1008.02    161.006
1008.04    161.021
1008.05    161.022
1008.06    161.023
1008.07    161.024
1008.081   161.036
1008.09    161.037
1008.10    161.038
1008.11    161.039
1008.12    161.040
1008.13    161.041
1008.14    161.007
1008.15    161.999
1008.16    161.008
1009.01    162.001
1009.02    162.002
1009.03    162.003
1009.04    162.004
1009.05    162.005
1009.06    162.006
1009.07    162.999
1010.01    159.001
1010.02    159.002
1010.03    159.003
1010.04    159.004
1010.05    159.005
1010.06    159.006
1010.07    159.007
1010.08    159.008
1010.09    159.009
1010.10    159.010
1010.11    159.011
1010.12    159.012
1010.13    159.013
1010.14    159.999
1011.01    151.001
1011.02    151.002
1011.03    151.003
1011.04    151.004
1011.05    151.005
1011.06    151.006
1011.07    151.007
1011.08    151.008
1011.09    151.999
1012.01    119.001
1012.02    119.002
1012.03    119.020—
           119.028
1012.04    119.003
1012.05    119.004
1012.06    119.005
1012.07    119.006
1012.08    119.999
1101.01    160.001
1101.02    160.002
1101.03    160.003
1101.04    160.004
1101.05    160.005
1101.06    160.006
1101.07    160.007
1101.08    160.008
1101.09    160.009
1101.10    160.010
1102.01    160.011
1102.02    160.012
1103.01    160.025
1103.02    160.026
1103.03    160.027
1103.06    160.028
1103.07    160.029
1103.08    160.030
1103.09    160.031
1103.10    160.032
1103.11    160.033
1103.12    160.034
1103.13    160.035
1103.14    160.036
1103.15    160.037
1103.16    160.038
1103.17    160.039
1103.18    160.040
1103.19    160.041
1104.01    160.055
1104.02    160.056
1105.01    160.070
1105.02    160.071
1105.03    160.072
1105.04    160.073
1106.01    160.085
1106.02    160.086
1106.03    160.087
1106.04    160.088
1107.01    160.100
1107.02    160.101
1107.03    160.102
1107.04    160.103
1107.05    160.104
1108.01    160.115
1108.02    160.116
1108.03    160.117
1108.04    160.118
1109.01    160.130
1109.02    160.131
1109.03    160.132
1109.04    160.133
1110.01    160.145 
1110.02    160.146
1110.03    160.147
1110.04    160.148
1110.05    160.149
1110.06    160.150
1110.07    160.151
1110.09    160.152
1112.01    160.165
1112.02    160.166
1112.03    160.167
1112.04    160.168
1112.05    160.169
1113.01    160.180
1113.02    160.181
1113.03    160.182
1113.04    160.183
1113.05    160.184
1114.01    160.195
1114.02    160.196
1114.03    160.197
1114.04    160.198
1114.05    160.199
1115.01    160.215
1115.02    160.216
1115.03    160.217
1115.04    160.218
1115.05    160.219
1116.01    160.230
1116.02    160.231
1116.03    160.232
1116.04    160.233
1116.05    160.234
1116.06    160.235
1117.01    160.250
1117.02    160.251
1117.03    160.252
1117.04    160.253
1117.05    160.254
1118.01    160.265
1118.02    160.266
1118.03    160.267
1118.04    160.268
1119.01    160.300
1119.02    160.301
1119.03    160.302
1120.01    160.315
1120.02    160.316
1120.03    160.317
1120.04    160.318
1120.05    160.319
1121.01    160.330
1121.02    160.331
1121.03    160.332
1121.04    160.333
1121.05    160.334
1121.06    160.335
1121.07    160.336
1121.08    160.337
1121.09    160.338
1121.10    160.339
1121.11    160.340
1121.12    160.341
1121.13    160.342
1121.14    160.343
1121.15    160.344
1122.01    160.335
1122.02    160.336
1122.03    160.357
1122.04    160.358
1122.05    160.359
1122.06    160.360
1122.07    160.361
1123.01    160.375
1123.02    160.376
1123.03    160.377
1123.04    160.378
1123.05    160.379
1123.06    160.380
1123.07    160.381
1123.08    160.382
1124.01    160.395
1124.02    160.396
1124.03    160.397
1124.04    160.398
1124.05    160.399
1124.06    160.400
1124.07    160.401
1125.01    160.450—
           160.452
1125.02    160.465—
           160.470
1125.03    160.485—
           160.487
1125.04    160.013
1125.05    160.014
1125.06    160.999
1126.01    160.057
1127.01    160.415
1127.02    160.416
1127.03    160.417
1127.04    160.418
1127.05    160.419
1127.06    160.420
1127.07    160.421
1127.08    160.999
1128.01    160.435
1128.02    160.436
1128.03    160.437
1128.04    160.438
1128.05    160.439
1129.01    160.280
1129.02    160.281
1129.03    160.282
1129.04    160.283
1129.05    160.284
1129.06    160.285
1201.01    158.001;
           158.002
1201.02    158.003
1201.03    158.004
1201.04    158.005
1201.05    158.999
1202.01    158.020
1202.02    158.021
1202.03    158.022
1202.04    158.023
1202.05    158.024
1202.06    158.025
1202.07    158.026
1202.08    158.027
1202.09    158.028
1202.10    158.029
1203.01    158.040
1203.02    158.041
1203.03    158.042
1203.04    158.043
1203.05    158.044
1203.06    158.045
1203.07    158.046
1203.08    158.047
1203.09    158.048
1203.10    158.049
1204.01    158.060
1204.02    158.061
1205.01    158.075
1205.02    158.076
1205.03    158.077
           154.001—
1301.01    154.003;
           154.026;
           155.001
           154.004—
1301.02    154.012;
           155.002;
           155.003
1301.03    154.025;
           155.004
1301.04    154.027;
           155.005
1301.05    154.028;
           155.006
1301.06    154.040;
           155.007
1301.07    154.041;
           155.008
1301.08    154.042;
           155.009
1301.09    154.043;
           155.999
1301.10    154.055—
           154.061
1303.01    156.001
1303.02    156.002
1303.03    156.003
1303.04    156.004
1303.05    156.005
1303.06    156.006
1303.07    156.007
1303.08    156.008
1303.09    156.009
1303.10    156.999
1401       TSO Table I
1402       TSO Table I
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         TSO Table II
-        - -         TSO Table III
-        - -         TSO Table III
-        - -         TSO Table III
-        - -         TSO Table III
-        - -         TSO Table III
-        - -         TSO Table III
-        - -         TSO Table V
-        - -         TSO Table V
-        - -         TSO Table V
-        - -         TSO Table V
-        - -         TSO Table V
-        - -         TSO Table V
-        - -         TSO Table V
-        - -         TSO Table V
-        - -         TSO Table V
-        - -         TSO Table V
-        - -         TSO Table V
-        - -         TSO Table V
-        - -         TSO Table V
-        - -         TSO Table V
-        - -         TSO Table V
343      06-27-1983  150.001
346      10-10-1983  TSO Table V
404      02-10-1986  Charter, 4.02
435      03-14-1988  Charter, 4.02
441      05-23-1988  160.183
434      06-27-1988  10.999
442      07-11-1988  160.087
445      07-25-1988  160.344
448      09-26-1988  160.183
452      02-27-1989  160.196;
                     160.216
453      02-27-1989  160.028
456      02-27-1989  33.062
459      02-27-1989  31.006
465      03-23-1989  TSO Table V
464      03-27-1989  TSO Table V
460      04-24-1989  90.001;
                     90.999
                     110.047;
467      06-26-1989  110.049;
                     110.050
469      07-10-1989  TSO Table II
471      07-24-1989  TSO Table V
474      09-25-1989  158.061
475      10-09-1989  110.020;
                     110.026
476      10-09-1989  110.050
477      10-09-1989  TSO Table II
478      10-23-1989  TSO Table V
479      11-13-1989  TSO Table V
484      02-12-1990  TSO Table V
480      03-12-1990  TSO Table II
                     50.001;
486      04-23-1990  50.004;
                     50.006;
                     50.999
492      07-08-1991  50.004
                     150.065;
496      11-12-1991  150.067—
                     150.069
497      11-25-1991  152.015—
                     152.018
500      01-13-1992  150.053
501      01-13-1992  51.001
503      04-27-1992  51.001
504      04-27-1992  36.019
                     159.001—
                     159.005;
505      04-27-1992  159.007;
                     159.008;
                     159.010—
                     159.013
                     155.001—
507      04-27-1992  155.009;
                     155.999
                     150.050—
508      04-27-1992  150.052;
                     150.054;
                     150.999
511      06-22-1992  Ch. 73, Schd. I
512      06-22-1992  50.001
514      08-24-1992  111.069
516      09-14-1992  50.002
519      11-20-1992  TSO Table I
521      11-23-1992  150.001
517      12-21-1992  TSO Table I
518      12-21-1992  TSO Table I
522      02-08-1993  70.004
524      02-22-1993  160.055;
                     160.338
527      07-26-1993  31.003
529      08-23-1993  53.001—
                     53.011
528      09-27-1993  152.015—
                     152.018
534      03-28-1994  TSO Table III
536      04-25-1994  33.001—
                     33.011
537      05-23-1994  TSO Table V
538      05-23-1994  TSO Table V
539      05-23-1994  TSO Table V
540      06-13-1994  Ch. 73, Schd. I
543      06-27-1994  TSO Table V
548      09-24-1994  158.020
549      10-24-1994  TSO Table V
554      02-27-1995  TSO Table III
555      02-27-1995  TSO Table III
556      03-03-1995  91.005
                     91.001—
                     91.004;
556      03-20-1995  91.008;
                     91.009;
                     91.999
                     92.001—
557      03-27-1995  92.009;
                     92.999
551      04-10-1995  51.008;
                     51.061
561      06-12-1995  TSO Table V
563      06-12-1995  31.004
564      06-26-1995  113.007;
                     113.014
567      11-13-1995  37.060
570      01-08-1996  160.198
571      01-08-1996  150.022
572      02-26-1996  119.021
                     116.006;
574      05-13-1996  116.999;
                     160.231
576      05-13-1996  51.055
577      05-13-1996  52.045
582      05-28-1996  110.018
581      06-10-1996  160.196;
                     160.198
575      07-15-1996  160.086
584      07-15-1996  160.376
585      07-15-1996  161.008
583      09-23-1996  114.999
                     110.017;
591      10-29-1996  110.020;
                     110.050;
                     110.051
                     160.055;
                     160.056;
                     160.088;
                     160.104;
590      11-25-1996  160.148;
                     160.168;
                     160.183;
                     160.338;
                     160.340;
                     160.376
590      11-29-1996  160.133
604      - -1997     158.061
                     160.088;
                     160.148;
                     160.168;
                     160.183;
                     160.198;
588      02-10-1997  160.218;
                     160.233;
                     160.253;
                     160.254;
                     160.395—
                     160.401
596      03-10-1997  160.086
594      04-14-1997  91.003;
                     91.021
                     160.104;
                     160.148;
                     160.168;
595      04-14-1997  160.183;
                     160.198;
                     160.218;
                     160.233;
                     160.376
600      05-12-1997  37.060
601      05-12-1997  110.022
599      05-27-1997  TSO Table V
602      08-25-1997  159.007—
                     159.009
606      11-10-1997  TSO Table I
605      12-13-1997  TSO Table I
611      02-04-1998  TSO Table I
612      04-13-1998  91.008
616      04-27-1998  TSO Table I
618      04-27-1998  92.007
619      04-27-1998  110.045;
                     110.047
607      05-11-1998  161.020
615      05-11-1998  TSO Table III
617      06-08-1998  160.196;
                     160.216
                     91.001;
                     91.006;
                     91.999;
                     152.003;
620      07-27-1998  160.055;
                     160.086—
                     160.088;
                     160.117;
                     160.338;
                     160.343
622      01-16-1999  TSO Table I
626      02-08-1999  33.002
627      02-08-1999  33.061
629      05-10-1999  33.003;
                     33.006
628      06-28-1999  150.053
632      07-26-1999  160.181
631      09-13-1999  TSO Table V
639      09-27-1999  160.133
                     152.001—
640      10-11-1999  152.004;
                     152.999;
                     160.338
641      10-11-1999  TSO Table I
636      11-15-1999  51.001
                     161.008;
644      12-13-1999  161.037;
                     161.038
                     160.055;
642      01-10-2000  160.102;
                     160.338
646      01-10-2000  33.062
647      01-10-2000  32.003
649      02-28-2000  Charter, 3.04
650      02-28-2000  Charter, 5.06
651      02-28-2000  Charter, 5.07
654      02-14-2000  37.060
655      03-27-2000  TSO Table V
656      03-27-2000  161.038
657      03-27-2000  160.057
660      07-10-2000  TSO Table I
658      08-14-2000  160.030
664      08-14-2000  160.086—
                     160.088
665      08-28-2000  TSO Table V
666      08-28-2000  TSO Table III
                     111.100;
663      09-11-2000  111.102;
                     111.103;
                     111.999
668      09-11-2000  TSO Table III
670      10-10-2000  TSO Table I
671      10-10-2000  TSO Table I
675      11-27-2000  TSO Table V
672      01-22-2001  160.087
678      02-12-2001  33.002
                     161.002;
                     161.006—
                     161.008;
679      05-29-2001  161.020—
                     161.024;
                     161.035—
                     161.040;
                     161.999
680      05-29-2001  TSO Table III
681      05-29-2001  150.067;
                     150.069
684      07-09-2001  TSO Table V
685      08-27-2001  160.012;
                     160.183
687      11-13-2001  TSO Table I
688      11-13-2001  TSO Table I
683      01-28-2002  TSO Table V
691      01-28-2002  110.027;
                     110.053
                     91.001;
                     91.003;
694      03-11-2002  91.006—
                     91.009;
                     91.999
692      03-25-2002  150.054
693      03-25-2002  160.087
                     90.001—
696      04-22-2002  90.006;
                     90.999
697      04-22-2002  TSO Table V
                     160.116;
698      04-22-2002  160.118;
                     160.131;
                     160.133
700      08-12-2002  Charter, 3.07
701      09-09-2002  160.088
702      09-09-2002  TSO Table V
703      09-23-2002  TSO Table I
704      09-23-2002  TSO Table I
705      10-28-2002  31.003
706      10-28-2002  33.002
707      10-28-2002  33.061
708      12-30-2002  161.038
                     33.060;
714      05-12-2003  33.061;
                     33.065—
                     33.067
713      05-19-2003  50.006
                     150.001—
                     150.007;
                     150.052;
                     150.053;
715      05-27-2003  150.065—
                     150.067;
                     150.070;
                     150.071;
                     150.999
716      06-23-2003  160.118
717      07-28-2003  110.026;
                     110.054
719      10-13-2003  TSO Table I
720      10-13-2003  160.265—
                     160.268
721      10-13-2003  160.231
722      10-13-2003  TSO Table I
711      11-10-2003  160.265—
                     160.268
727      01-26-2004  150.999
725      02-09-2004  160.466;
                     160.470
                     119.001;
                     119.004;
                     119.005;
731      03-22-2004  119.022;
                     119.024—
                     119.027;
                     119.999
                     116.001—
734      04-26-2004  116.006;
                     116.999
                     160.167;
733      05-10-2004  160.198;
                     160.218
                     160.167;
                     160.169;
735      05-10-2004  160.184;
                     160.199;
                     160.219;
                     160.235
736      05-10-2004  Charter, 4.02
737      06-24-2004  50.006
741      06-28-2004  33.002;
                     33.061
744      07-26-2004  TSO Table III
745      07-26-2004  158.061
750      08-23-2004  TSO Table III
746      09-13-2004  TSO Table I
747      09-13-2004  TSO Table I
742      09-27-2004  Charter, 2.06
748      09-27-2004  Charter, 4.05
749      09-27-2004  Charter, 9.01
752      09-13-2004  160.055;
                     160.470
739      11-22-2004  TSO Table V
754      01-24-2005  TSO Table IV
754      01-24-2005  158.021
                     152.002;
756      01-24-2005  160.055;
                     160.338;
                     160.470
757      01-24-2005  TSO Table III
755      02-14-2005  160.316
759      06-13-2005  Charter, 4.02
764      11-14-2005  TSO Table V
765      11-14-2005  TSO Table III
766      11-28-2005  TSO Table III
767      01-23-2006  TSO Table I
768      01-23-2006  TSO Table I
770      03-27-2006  TSO Table III
                     110.017;
                     110.022;
771      04-24-2006  110.025;
                     110.047;
                     110.052
                     161.002;
                     161.006;
                     161.020;
769      05-8-2006   161.022;
                     161.037;
                     161.038;
                     161.040;
                     161.041
772      05-22-2006  Charter, 7.03
761      05-31-2006  TSO Table V
763      05-31-2006  TSO Table III
775      07-10-2006  TSO Table III
-        08-14-2006  160.012
773      08-14-2006  160.030
774      08-14-2006  90.003;
                     160.088
777      08-14-2006  TSO Table I;
                     TSO Table III
779      09-11-2006  TSO Table I
783      11-27-2006  TSO Table IV
782      01-08-2007  Charter, 7.10
787      04-09-2007  160.012
788      04-09-2007  160.183
786      05-23-2007  159.999
789      05-29-2007  91.008
                     158.020;
792      05-29-2007  158.022—
                     158.024;
                     158.026
                     Charter,
                     3.05;
790      06-25-2007  3.07;
                     3.09;
                     5.01—
                     5.07
794      08-27-2007  162.003;
                     162.004
795      08-27-2007  150.001
796      08-27-2007  TSO Table I
797      08-27-2007  TSO Table I
-        09-10-2007  160.181
799      09-24-2007  Charter, 12.01
785      12-10-2007  160.030
                     161.006;
801      01-07-2008  161.038;
                     161.040
800      01-14-2008  Charter, 12.13
                     160.070;
793      01-30-2008  160.338;
                     160.397;
                     160.399
                     119.002—
                     119.006;
                     119.021;
802      02-25-2008  119.022;
                     119.024;
                     119.026—
                     119.028;
                     119.999
803      04-14-2008  51.041
                     Charter,
810      07-28-2008  8.06;
                     12.14
811      09-3-2008   TSO Table I
812      09-3-2008   TSO Table I
814      10-1-2008   160.317
836      10-22-2008  TSO Table III
813      11-5-2008   TSO Table V
                     161.001—
                     161.006;
                     161.008;
816      01-22-2009  161.020—
                     161.024;
                     161.036—
                     161.041
                     114.002;
                     114.006;
817      04-02-2009  114.009;
                     114.013;
                     114.014
818      04-16-2009  160.088
819      05-11-2009  Charter, 7.03
822      07-02-2009  37.070
823      07-02-2009  130.002
809      09-03-2009  TSO Table III
825      09-03-2009  TSO Table I
826      09-03-2009  TSO Table I
827      09-03-2009  160.055
                     160.055;
                     160.056;
                     160.070;
829      09-03-2009  160.338;
                     160.397;
                     161.037;
                     161.038
830      09-03-2009  160.231;
                     160.233
831      09-03-2009  160.040
833      09-03-2009  160.183
-        10-08-2009  160.012
828      10-08-2009  160.056;
                     160.087
                     160.012;
832      10-08-2009  160.087;
                     160.088
                     113.001—
834      10-10-2009  113.008;
                     113.010—
                     113.014
837      11-19-2009  160.450
838      11-19-2009  160.999
839      12-14-2009  Charter, 7.05
840      01-21-2010  TSO Table V
                     Charter,
                     1.01;
                     2.05;
                     3.06;
                     3.07;
                     3.11;
                     4.01;
                     4.02;
                     4.05;
841      03-08-2010  5.02—
                     5.04;
                     5.06—
                     5.08;
                     6.01;
                     6.03;
                     6.04;
                     7.04;
                     7.06;
                     7.07;
                     12.07
835      04-01-2010  110.027;
                     110.053
835      05-20-2010  110.017
                     110.015—
                     110.030;
843      05-20-2010  110.045—
                     110.055;
                     110.999
                     10.001;
                     10.005;
                     10.019;
                     10.021;
                     10.999;
                     30.005;
                     31.002;
                     31.004;
                     32.015;
                     32.016;
                     33.011;
                     36.015;
                     36.016;
                     36.020;
                     36.048;
                     37.004;
                     37.028;
                     37.040;
                     37.061;
                     37.062;
                     50.002;
                     50.006;
                     51.005;
                     51.008;
                     51.009;
                     51.041;
                     51.042;
                     51.057;
                     51.059;
                     52.003;
                     52.047;
                     70.001;
                     90.003;
                     91.007—
                     91.009;
                     91.999;
                     110.019;
                     110.023;
                     110.049;
                     111.046;
                     111.047;
                     111.066—
                     111.069;
                     111.120;
                     111.126;
844      05-20-2010  112.002;
                     112.003;
                     112.021;
                     112.022;
                     113.004;
                     113.006;
                     113.008;
                     113.010—
                     113.012;
                     114.008;
                     114.011;
                     114.013;
                     114.015;
                     115.005;
                     116.006;
                     130.002;
                     150.001;
                     150.053;
                     150.085;
                     150.086;
                     152.016;
                     153.001—
                     153.007;
                     153.009;
                     155.005;
                     158.020;
                     158.026;
                     158.028;
                     158.029;
                     159.006;
                     160.013;
                     160.014;
                     160.071;
                     160.149;
                     160.251;
                     160.252;
                     160.316;
                     160.318;
                     160.319;
                     160.344;
                     160.450;
                     160.467—
                     160.469;
                     161.021;
                     161.023;
                     161.024
845      06-24-2010  160.166
849      09-02-2010  TSO Table I
850      09-02-2010  TSO Table I
851      10-07-2010  110.026;
                     110.054
844      10-20-2010  160.452
                     161.020;
                     161.022;
847      10-21-2010  161.036;
                     161.037;
                     161.040
852      10-21-2010  150.066
                     111.100—
854      10-21-2010  111.104;
                     111.999
855      12-13-2010  TSO Table IV
                     150.001;
                     150.003—
                     150.005;
                     150.007;
                     150.035—
                     150.037;
                     150.050;
                     150.051;
853      02-03-2011  150.053;
                     150.054;
                     150.065;
                     150.070;
                     150.072;
                     150.073;
                     150.999;
                     162.002;
                     162.004;
                     162.005
856      02-03-2011  160.181;
                     160.183
862      09-01-2011  TSO Table I
863      09-01-2011  TSO Table I
                     158.076;
                     160.012;
861      09-22-2011  160.466;
                     160.470;
                     161.008
                     158.003;
                     158.020;
                     158.022;
860      10-6-2011   158.026;
                     158.028;
                     158.061;
                     TSO Table IV
864      11-03-2011  161.038
867      03-08-2012  160.012;
                     160.167
869      04-05-2012  160.338
870      04-19-2012  114.006;
                     160.087
                     153.001—
871      05-03-2012  153.007;
                     153.999
870      05-19-2012  114.010
872      06-07-2012  161.038
873      08-27-2012  TSO Table I
874      08-27-2012  TSO Table I
848      09-06-2012  TSO Table V
858      09-06-2012  TSO Table III
877      02-07-2013  33.061
875      02-11-2013  TSO Table I
876      02-11-2013  TSO Table I
878      02-11-2013  Charter, 4.02
                     160.012;
879      07-22-2013  160.041;
                     160.087
880      08-26-2013  113.999
881      08-26-2013  TSO Table I
882      08-26-2013  TSO Table I
                     160.233;
883      09-09-2013  160.317;
                     160.439
                     161.037;
884      12-09-2013  161.038;
                     161.041
                     71.001;
                     71.007;
886      04-28-2014  91.001;
                     91.006;
                     91.999
887      06-09-2014  161.038
888      07-28-2014  160.285
890      08-25-2014  90.003
892      09-08-2014  TSO Table I
893      09-08-2014  TSO Table I
891      10-27-2014  50.999
894      11-10-2014  TSO Table I
895      01-26-2015  160.231;
                     160.233
                     160.087;
                     160.167;
896      01-26-2015  160.168;
                     160.183;
                     160.198;
                     160.218
897      02-09-2015  50.006
                     91.001;
898      03-23-2015  91.006;
                     91.999
899      05-11-2015  160.012;
                     160.087
                     160.088;
                     160.148;
                     160.196;
900      05-26-2015  160.337;
                     160.342;
                     160.344;
                     161.039
901      05-26-2015  111.999
902      05-26-2015  160.167
903      06-22-2015  90.006
904      07-13-2015  160.087
906      08-24-2015  TSO Table I
907      08-24-2015  TSO Table I
908      09-14-2015  90.006
909      11-09-2015  160.030
910      11-23-2015  TSO Table I
911      12-14-2015  110.026
912      01-25-2016  TSO Table V
913      03-28-2016  160.317
                     156.003;
914      04-25-2016  156.006—
                     156.009
916      05-23-2016  150.054
917      05-23-2016  160.012;
                     160.087
                     119.002;
                     119.005;
                     119.007;
915      06-13-2016  119.020—
                     119.024;
                     119.027;
                     119.999
918      06-13-2016  TSO Table III
919      06-27-2016  161.038
920      06-27-2016  TSO Table III
921      07-11-2016  160.058
922      08-08-2016  31.003
923      08-22-2016  TSO Table I
924      08-22-2016  TSO Table I
                     110.015;
925      08-22-2016  110.018;
                     110.026
                     160.012;
926      08-22-2016  160.183;
                     160.196;
                     160.231
                     160.012;
927      08-22-2016  160.026;
                     160.087;
                     160.088
928      12-12-2016  TSO Table IV
929      12-12-2016  33.061
                     132.001—
930      12-12-2016  132.005;
                     132.999
932      04-24-2017  110.026
933      05-08-2017  33.006
934      05-08-2017  TSO Table V
935      08-28-2017  TSO Table I
936      08-28-2017  TSO Table I
937      09-25-2017  TSO Table I
938      09-25-2017  110.017;
                     110.018
                     54.001—
                     54.006;
                     54.020—
940      01-22-2018  54.033;
                     54.045—
                     54.055;
                     160.397
939      02-26-2018  130.001
941      04-09-2018  160.055
942      04-09-2018  110.017
                     10.019;
                     10.999;
                     31.001;
943      05-29-2018  31.004;
                     32.015;
                     34.001—
                     34.003
                     153.003;
945      05-29-2018  153.004;
                     153.006;
                     153.009
                     36.015;
                     36.017;
                     36.019;
                     36.020;
                     37.004;
944      06-25-2018  37.021;
                     37.040—
                     37.044;
                     37.061;
                     37.088;
                     37.090
                     119.002;
946      07-09-2018  119.021;
                     119.024;
                     119.026
948      07-23-2018  37.040
950      09-10-2018  TSO Table I
949      09-24-2018  TSO Table I
                     110.018;
                     110.020—
                     110.022;
                     110.026;
                     110.050—
                     110.052;
                     111.001;
                     111.047;
951      09-24-2018  111.048;
                     111.071;
                     111.119;
                     111.126;
                     112.003;
                     113.002;
                     113.006;
                     115.011;
                     116.999
952      11-26-2018  35.001—
                     35.005
                     90.003;
953      12-10-2018  90.005;
                     130.001
                     70.003;
                     70.004;
954      02-11-2019  71.004;
                     71.006;
                     71.007;
                     Ch. 73, Schd. I
                     51.001—
                     51.003;
                     51.005;
955      03-11-2019  51.040—
                     51.042;
                     51.044;
                     92.006;
                     92.007
956      05-28-2019  TSO Table V
                     119.004;
                     119.024;
                     119.028;
                     150.001;
                     150.007;
                     150.036;
                     150.053;
                     150.065;
957      05-28-2019  150.067;
                     150.071;
                     150.085;
                     159.002;
                     159.005;
                     159.008;
                     161.024;
                     161.038;
                     162.005
958      07-08-2019  TSO Table V
959      07-08-2019  160.056
960      07-22-2019  158.061
962      08-26-2019  TSO Table I
                     111.120;
                     111.122;
965      08-26-2019  111.123;
                     111.126—
                     111.128;
                     111.999
                     118.001—
                     118.007;
                     118.020 ;
961      09-09-2019  118.021;
                     118.023—
                     118.039;  
                     118.999
963      09-09-2019  TSO Table I
966      09-23-2019  TSO Table III
964      10-14-2019  110.048
967      10-28-2019  52.013
968      10-28-2019  150.066
                     51.040—
                     51.044;
969      12-09-2019  52.025—
                     52.030;
                     52.999;
                     157.006
971      12-09-2019  119.007;
                     119.021
                     160.012;
                     160.027;
                     160.071;
                     160.167;
970      01-13-2020  160.183;
                     160.377;
                     160.381;
                     160.450;
                     160.468
                     158.004;
                     158.005;
                     158.020;
972      02-10-2020  158.023;
                     158.026;
                     158.027;
                     158.048;
                     158.076
973      11-23-2020  160.500;
                     160.501
                     71.005;
974      02-22-2021  71.006;
                     71.009;
                     Ch. 73, Schd. I   
975      04-12-2021  160.087
977      07-26-2021  160.198;
                     160.218
978      08-23-2021  TSO Table I
979      08-23-2021  TSO Table I
980      09-13-2021  120.001—
                     120.004
                     50.006;
                     90.003;
                     110.020;
                     110.024;
981      11-08-2021  110.050;
                     111.001;
                     111.048;
                     116.006;
                     118.023
982      11-08-2021  37.060;
                     92.999
984      11-22-2021  Charter, 7.03
985      11-22-2021  TSO Table V
986      01-24-2022  118.003;
                     118.999
988      03-28-2022  161.037;
                     161.038
989      03-28-2022  160.167
990      04-25-2022  119.024
991      06-13-2022  110.017
992      07-25-2022  52.014
994      12-12-2022  Charter, 4.02
995      12-12-2022  Charter, 4.05
996      12-12-2022  Charter, 4.05
997      12-12-2022  31.003
                     161.006;
999      7-10-2023   161.020;
                     161.037—
                     161.040
1001     3-13-2023   90.005
1003     6-12-2023   160.198
1005     9-25-2023   31.001
1007     9-11-2023   133.001—
                     133.003
1008     09-11-2023  Charter, 12.16
                     Charter,
                     1.01;
                     1.02;
                     2.01—
                     2.07;
                     3.01;
                     3.04—
                     3.07;
                     3.10;
                     3.11;
                     4.01;
                     4.02;
                     4.04;
                     4.05;
                     5.01—
                     5.09;
                     6.01—
                     6.04;
1009     10-23-2023  7.01;
                     7.03—
                     7.07;
                     7.10—
                     7.12;
                     8.03;
                     8.04;
                     8.06;
                     9.01;
                     10.02;
                     10.03;
                     11.01;
                     11.04;
                     11.06;
                     12.01;
                     12.02;
                     12.04;
                     12.07;
                     12.13—
                     12.16
1010     11-13-2023  150.008
1011     11-13-2023  Charter, 2.06
1012     11-13-2023  TSO Table IV
1013     04-08-2024  TSO Table III
                     38.001—
1014     07-22-2024  38.004;
                     38.999
1015     08-26-2024  150.050
1016     08-26-2024  TSO Table IV
                     Charter,
1017     09-23-2024  7.04;
                     7.05
1019     10-28-2024  TSO Table IV
1021     11-25-2024  TSO Table IV
1022     12-9-2024   50.006
                     121.001—
                     121.011;
                     160.012;
                     160.181;
1025     2-10-2025   160.183;
                     160.196;
                     160.216;
                     160.231;
                     160.233
1026     3-10-2025   10.999
1028     3-10-2025   71.001
1029     3-10-2025   90.005
                     91.001;
1030     3-10-2025   91.006;
                     91.020
1031     3-10-2025   118.022
1032     3-10-2025   120.001—
                     120.004
1033     3-10-2025   160.087
1034     4-14-2025   90.002—
                     90.005
                     160.030;
1035     4-14-2025   160.033;
                     160.181;
                     160.338
1036     4-14-2025   161.020
1037     4-14-2025   TSO Table V
1038     4-14-2025   TSO Table V
1039     4-14-2025   TSO Table V
1040     4-14-2025   160.317
                    
 
