NEW RICHLAND, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Local Legislation Ord. No. 25-02, passed 8-11-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
   
Appendix A:   Notice of Code Violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “New
Richland City Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of New
Richland, Minnesota, as presently established or as amended by ordinance,
annexation or other legal actions at a future time. The term CITY when used in
this code may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Waseca County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection. The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide a copy
for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances all future supplements are adopted as if they had been in
existence at the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention
expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall have the authority to administer and
enforce this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain
individuals designated within the code or by the Clerk-Treasurer or City
Council shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions
specified. All and any person or persons designated may issue a citation in
lieu of arrest or continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk-Treasurer and any city official or employee designated
by this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may
with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or
resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or
otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Clerk-Treasurer or any other authorized city officer
or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given
to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property,
stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or
other person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Clerk-Treasurer to object to the termination before it occurs,
subject to appeal of the Clerk-Treasurer’s decision to the City Council at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (E)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk-Treasurer, Peace Officer or any employee or official charged with the
duty of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
The resolution may not proscribe administrative penalties for traffic offenses
designated by M.S. § 169.999, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Clerk-Treasurer or other
person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, a
written notice must be provided of an alleged violation, sent by first class
mail to the person who is alleged to have violated the code. The person giving
notice may request the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the
violation directly to the City Clerk-Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of
the violation. A sample notice is contained in Appendix A of this chapter. In
the sole discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged violation,
the time for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not
requested by the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the
administrative penalty, the person giving notice may request in the notice to
the alleged violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the situation
resulting in the alleged violation and may provide that if the alleged violator
corrects the situation resulting in the alleged violation within the time
specified in the notice, the payment of the administrative penalty will be
waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of
this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
APPENDIX A:    NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
 
 
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
 
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
 
Re: Alleged violation of Section of the City Code, relating to (give title of section)
 
Date: (Date of notice)
 
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                  of the City Code relating to                                                                                                                                      .
 
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in the amount of $         for this violation.
 
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
 
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the administrative penalty.
 
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by                         (establish date), then the payment of the administrative penalty will be waived.
 
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
 
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the Council.
 
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate
the violation.
 
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
Meetings
   
30.01   Regular meetings
   
30.02   Special and emergency meetings
   
30.03   Initial meeting
   
30.04   Public meetings
Presiding Officer and Procedures
   
30.15   Who presides
   
30.16   Procedure
   
30.17   Appeal procedure
   
30.18   Suspension or amendment of rules
   
30.19   Voting
   
30.20   Salaries of Mayor and Councilmembers
   
30.21   City elections
Minutes
   
30.35   Who keeps
   
30.36   Approval
Order of Business
   
30.50   Order established
   
30.51   Petitions and agenda
Ordinance, Resolutions, Motions, Petitions and Communications
   
30.65   Signing and publication proof
   
30.66   Repeals and amendments
MEETINGS
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the second and fourth
Monday of each calendar month at 6:30 p.m. Any regular meeting falling upon a
holiday shall be held on the next following business day at the same time and
place. All meetings, including special and adjourned meetings, shall be held in
the City Hall unless the Council decides otherwise at a prior meeting, or
meeting in the City Hall is impossible.
(Prior Code, § 200.01)
§ 30.02 SPECIAL AND EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   The Mayor or any two members of the Council may call a special meeting of
the Council upon at least 72 hours’ written notice to each member of the
Council. This notice shall be delivered personally to each member or shall be
left at the member’s usual place of residence with some responsible person.
Notice to the public shall be given in accordance with state law. An emergency
meeting may be called by the Mayor or any two members of the Council for the
reasons authorized by state law. Actual notice of the emergency meeting must be
attempted to be given to all members of the Council, and notice provisions of
state law must also be met.
(Prior Code, § 200.01)
§ 30.03 INITIAL MEETING.
   At the first regular Council meeting in January of each year, the Council
shall:
   (A)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
   (B)   Designate the official newspaper;
   (C)   Designate the City Attorney;
   (D)   Choose one of the Councilmembers as acting Mayor, who shall perform
the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor from the
city or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has
been appointed and qualifies;
   (E)   Appoint such officers and employees and such members of boards,
commissions and committees as may be necessary; and
   (F)   Establish and appoint Councilmembers to such Council committees as are
deemed appropriate for the efficient and orderly management of the city.
(Prior Code, § 200.01)
§ 30.04 PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   All Council meetings, including special and adjourned meetings and meetings
of Council committees, shall be conducted in accordance with the State Open
Meeting Law, being M.S. Chapter 13D, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 200.01)
PRESIDING OFFICER AND PROCEDURES
§ 30.15 WHO PRESIDES.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council. In the absence of
the Mayor, the acting Mayor shall preside. In the absence of both, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall call the meeting to order and shall preside until the
Councilmembers present at the meeting choose one of their members to act
temporarily as presiding officer.
(Prior Code, § 200.02)
§ 30.16 PROCEDURE.
   The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the rules of procedure
herein prescribed and determine without debate, subject to the final decision
of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and order.
(Prior Code, § 200.02)
§ 30.17 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Any member may appeal to the Council a ruling of the presiding officer. If
the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once solely on the question
involved and the presiding officer may explain the ruling, but no other
Councilmember shall participate in the discussion. The appeal shall be
sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members present including the
presiding officer.
(Prior Code, § 200.02)
§ 30.18 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended only by a two-thirds vote of the members
present and voting.
(Prior Code, § 200.02)
§ 30.19 VOTING.
   (A)   The votes of the members on any question may be taken in any manner
which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes of the
members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (B)   If any member is present but does not vote, the minutes, as to his or
her name, shall be marked “Present-Not Voting”.
(Prior Code, § 200.05)
§ 30.20 SALARIES OF MAYOR AND COUNCILMEMBERS.
   The salaries for the Mayor and each Councilmember shall be as follows:
   (A)   Special and emergency meetings: $30 a meeting for each official;
   (B)   Out-of-town meetings: $100 for an all day meeting; $50 for a half-day
meeting;
   (C)   Mayor: $90 per attended regular meeting; and
   (D)   Councilmember: $75 per regular attended meeting.
(Prior Code, § 200.07) (Ord. passed 10-13-1998; Ord. passed 10-28-2002)
§ 30.21 CITY ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The regular city elections shall be held biennially on the first
Tuesday after the first Monday in November of every even-numbered year.
   (B)   The terms of office for the Mayor shall be two years and for
Councilmembers shall be four years.
(Prior Code, § 200.08)
MINUTES
§ 30.35 WHO KEEPS.
   Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the Clerk-Treasurer or, in
the Clerk-Treasurer’s absence, by the deputy Clerk-Treasurer. In the absence of
both, the presiding officer shall appoint a secretary pro tem. Ordinances,
resolutions and claims need not be recorded in full in the minutes if they
appear in other permanent records of the Clerk-Treasurer and can be accurately
identified from the description given in the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 200.03)
§ 30.36 APPROVAL.
   The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten form, shall be
signed by the Clerk-Treasurer, and copies shall be delivered to each
Councilmember as soon as practicable after the meeting. At the next regular
Council meeting following this delivery, approval of the minutes shall be
considered by the Council. The minutes need not be read aloud, but the
presiding officer shall call for any additions or corrections. If there is no
objection to a proposed addition or correction, it may be made without a vote
of the Council. If there is an objection, the Council shall vote upon the
addition or correction. If there are no additions or corrections, the minutes
shall stand approved.
(Prior Code, § 200.03)
ORDER OF BUSINESS
§ 30.50 ORDER ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Each meeting of the Council shall convene at the time and place
appointed for the meeting.
   (B)   Council business shall be conducted in the following order unless
varied by the presiding officer:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Approval of minutes;
      (4)   Consent agenda;
      (5)   Public hearings;
      (6)   Petitions, requests and communications;
      (7)   Ordinances and resolutions;
      (8)   Reports of officers, boards and committees;
      (9)   Unfinished business;
      (10)   New business;
      (11)   Miscellaneous; and
      (12)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 200.04)
§ 30.51 PETITIONS AND AGENDA.
   Petitions and other papers addressed to the Council shall be read by the
Clerk-Treasurer upon presentation to the Council. All persons desiring to
present new business before the Council shall inform the Clerk-Treasurer at
least 72 hours before the new business is to be heard. The Clerk-Treasurer may
prepare an agenda of the new business for submission to the Council on or
before the time of the next regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 200.04)
ORDINANCE, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS
§ 30.65 SIGNING AND PUBLICATION PROOF.
   Every ordinance and resolution passed by the Council shall be signed by the
Mayor, attested by the Clerk-Treasurer, and filed by the Clerk-Treasurer in the
ordinance or resolution book. Proof of publication of every ordinance shall be
attached and filed with the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 200.06)
§ 30.66 REPEALS AND AMENDMENTS.
   Every ordinance or resolution repealing a previous ordinance or resolution
or a section or subdivision shall give the number, if any, and the title of the
ordinance or code number of the ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole
or in part. Each ordinance or resolution amending an existing ordinance or
resolution or part shall set forth in full each amended section or subdivision
as it will read with the amendment.
(Prior Code, § 200.06)
CHAPTER 31: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
31.01   Establishment of Commission
   
31.02   Composition
   
31.03   Organization, meetings and procedures
   
31.04   Adoption of program of work
   
31.05   Preparation of City Plan
   
31.06   Procedure for adoption of Plan
   
31.07   Means of executing Plan
   
31.08   Zoning Plan
   
31.09   Official map of street extensions
   
31.10   Plats
   
31.11   Procedure for change
   
31.12   List of recommended public works
Tree Board
   
31.25   Established
   
31.26   Term of office
   
31.27   Compensation
   
31.28   Duties and responsibilities
   
31.29   Operation
   
31.30   Review by City Council
Historic Preservation Commission
   
31.45   Composition and terms
   
31.46   Organization
   
31.47   Duties and responsibilities
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
   A City Planning Commission shall be continued.
(Prior Code, § 210.03)
§ 31.02 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members. Four members
shall be appointed by the City Council and may be removed by a four-fifths vote
of the Council; and the Council shall select one member of the Commission from
among its own members. The City Engineer and the City Attorney shall be members
ex officio, but shall not be entitled to vote. All other members of the
Commission shall be entitled to one vote each.
   (B)   Of the members of the Commission first appointed, one shall be
appointed for the term of one year, one for the term of two years, one for the
term of three years and one for the term of four years. Their successors shall
be appointed for terms of four years. Terms of office shall expire as of the
same date in each year of the expiration of Councilmember’s offices and for the
purpose of the first terms, any portion of a year shall be considered to be a
full year. Both original and successive appointees shall hold their offices
until their successors are appointed and qualified. The terms of ex officio
members shall correspond to their respective official tenures. Vacancies during
the term shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired portion of the term.
Every appointed member shall, before entering upon the discharge of his or her
duties, take an oath that he or she shall faithfully discharge the duties of
his or her office. All members shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 210.03)
§ 31.03 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect a chairperson from among its appointed
members for a term of one year; and the Commission may create and fill such
other offices as it may determine. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall act as
secretary of the Planning Commission, but he or she shall not be a member
unless he or she is appointed by the Council as its member representative as
provided in §
31.02. A quorum for the purpose of conducting the business of the Commission
shall consist of three or more members entitled to vote; provided that any one
voting member may adjourn a properly called meeting of the Commission from time
to time without further notice.
   (B)   The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each month. It
shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of
its resolutions, transactions and findings, which record shall be a public
record. On or before January 1 of each year, the Commission shall submit to the
City Council a report of its work during the preceding year. Expenditures of
the Commission shall be within amounts appropriated for the purpose by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 210.03)
§ 31.04 ADOPTION OF PROGRAM OF WORK.
   (A)   Upon the appointment and organization of the Commission, it shall
proceed with the preparation and adoption of resolution of a program of work,
outlining activities proposed to be undertaken in the exercise of its powers
and the performance of its duties. Such a program shall include:
      (1)   An outline of data and information to be assembled as a basis for
the City Plan;
      (2)   An outline of subjects to be covered by the City Plan; and
      (3)   An outline of types of procedures necessary to make the City Plan
effective.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may, by resolution, revise its program of work
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 210.03)
§ 31.05 PREPARATION OF CITY PLAN.
   It shall be the function and duty of the Planning Commission to prepare and
adopt a comprehensive City Plan for the physical development of the city,
including proposed public buildings, street arrangements and improvements,
public utility services, parks, playgrounds and other similar developments, the
use of property, the density of population and other matters relating to the
physical development of the city. The Plan may be prepared in sections, each of
which shall relate to a major subject of the Plan, as outlined in the
Commission’s program of work.
(Prior Code, § 210.03)
§ 31.06 PROCEDURE FOR ADOPTION OF PLAN.
   Before adopting the City Plan or any section of it or any substantial
amendment thereof, the Commission shall hold at least one public hearing
thereon, notice of the time and place of which shall be given by publication in
a newspaper of general circulation at least ten days before the day of the
hearing. The adoption of the City Plan or of any section or amendment thereof
shall be by resolution of the Commission, approved by the affirmative votes of
not less than two-thirds of its total voting membership. The Commission may
from time to time amend or add to the City Plan or section thereof as provided
in this subchapter for the adoption of the original plan whenever changed
conditions or further studies by the Commission indicate that the amendment or
addition is necessary. An attested copy of the Plan or of any section
amendment, or addition to the City Plan adopted by the Planning Commission
shall be certified to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 210.03)
§ 31.07 MEANS OF EXECUTING PLAN.
   (A)   Upon the adoption of the City Plan or any section thereof, it shall be
the duty of the Planning Commission to recommend to the City Council reasonable
and practicable means for putting into effect the Plan or section thereof in
order that the same will serve as a pattern and guide for the orderly physical
development of the city and as a basis for the efficient expenditure of the
funds thereof relating to the subjects of the City Plan.
   (B)   Means of executing the City Plan shall consist of a zoning plan, the
control of subdivision plats, a plan of future streets, coordination of the
normal public improvements of the city, a long-term program of capital
expenditures and such other matters as shall accomplish the purposes of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 210.03)
§ 31.08 ZONING PLAN.
   The Planning Commission, upon its own motion, may, and upon instructions by
the City Council shall, prepare a proposed zoning plan for the city. Before
recommending the plan to the City Council, the Planning Commission shall hold
at least one public hearing thereon after a notice similar to that required by
§
31.06. The same procedure shall apply for the preparation of any plan of
proposed rights-of-way for the future streets or highways, or the future
widening of existing streets or highways, or for the reservation of lands for
other public purposes.
(Prior Code, § 210.03)
§ 31.09 OFFICIAL MAP OF STREET EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, with the assistance of the City Engineer, may
and upon instructions by the City Council shall, prepare an official map of the
platted and unplatted portions of the city and adjoining territory, or portions
thereof, indicating upon the map the proposed future extension or widening of
streets of the city within the existing platted and developed territory or
across the unplatted territory.
   (B)   After the map has been prepared and a hearing on it has been held as
provided in §
31.08, it shall be submitted to the Council, which shall consider the map and
may adopt it or any part of it with such amendments as it deems advisable.
Before the adoption by the Council, a public hearing shall be held upon the
proposal at least ten days after a notice thereof has been published in a
newspaper published in the city. After the map has been adopted by the Council
and filed with the Register of Deeds, whenever any existing street or highway
is widened or improved, or any new street is opened, or lands for other public
purpose are acquired by action of the city, it shall not be required in the
proceedings to pay for any building or structure placed without a permit or in
violation of conditions of a permit after the filing of the map within the
limits of the mapped street, or outside of any building line that may have been
established upon the existing street or within any area that may have been
established upon the existing street or within any area thus reserved for
public purposes.
(Prior Code, § 210.03)
§ 31.10 PLATS.
   (A)   Every proposed plat of land within the city or within two miles of the
limits of the city and not within a town which itself requires the approval of
plats, shall be submitted to the City Council before being filed unless and
until the same shall have been approved by the City Council. Before acting on
the plat the City Council shall submit the plat to the Planning Commission for
its recommendations.
   (B)   The Planning Commission, within 40 days after any plat has been
referred to it by the City Council, shall act on the same and shall make its
recommendations with respect thereto. The recommendations may consist of:
      (1)   Recommendation that the City Council approve the plat;
      (2)   Recommendation that the City Council disapprove the plat, in which
case the recommendation shall include a statement of the specific reasons for
the recommendation; or
      (3)   Recommendations that the City Council approve the plat after
specified changes or revisions are made therein, which recommendations may
include the condition that a revised plat, containing the changes or revisions,
be submitted to the Planning Commission, in which case the revised plat shall
be so submitted to the Planning Commission for its further consideration and
recommendation before action thereon by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 210.03) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.11 PROCEDURE FOR CHANGE.
   No change shall be made in the zoning plan, future and public lands plan or
regulations governing the platting of land after the plans or regulations have
been adopted by the City Council, until the proposed change has been referred
to the Planning Commission for report thereon and an attested copy of the
report had been filed with the Council: and no ordinance or resolution
establishing any of the plans or specifications shall be adopted by the City
Council until the ordinance or resolution has been referred to the Planning
Commission for a report thereon and an attested copy of the report has been
filed with the Council. Failure of the Planning Commission so to report within
40 days or such longer period as may be designated by the Council after the
reference shall be deemed to be approved of the proposed change.
(Prior Code, § 210.03)
§ 31.12 LIST OF RECOMMENDED PUBLIC WORKS.
   Each officer, department, board or commission of or in the city whose
functions include recommending, preparing plans for or constructing public
works shall, at least three months before the end of each fiscal year, submit
to the Planning Commission a list of the proposed public works recommended by
the officer, department, board or commission for planning initiation, or
constructing during the ensuing year. The Planning Commission shall request
from the local school district a similar list of its proposed public works. The
Planning Commission shall list and classify all of these proposed public works
and shall prepare a coordinated program of proposed public works for the
ensuing fiscal year. The program shall be recommended by the Commission to the
Council and to such other officers, departments, boards or public bodies as
have jurisdiction over the recommending, planning or constructing of the public
works. A copy of the recommended program of public works shall be included in
the annual report of the Planning Commission provided for in §
31.03.
(Prior Code, § 210.03)
TREE BOARD
§ 31.25 ESTABLISHED.
   There is established and maintained a City Tree Board. The Tree Board shall
consist of six members who shall be residents of the city and who shall be
appointed by the Mayor subject to the approval of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 210.04)
§ 31.26 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of each Tree Board member shall be for three years. In the event
that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his or her successor
shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Prior Code, § 210.04)
§ 31.27 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Tree Board shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 210.04)
§ 31.28 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study, investigate,
counsel, develop and administer a written plan for the care, preservation,
pruning, planting, replanting, removal and disposition of trees and shrubs in
city parks, along public streets and in other public places. The Plan shall
include an official list of tree species that may be planted as “street trees”,
as defined in §
92.01. This Plan shall be updated and presented to the City Council annually,
and upon the acceptance and approval of the Plan by the Council, the Plan shall
constitute the official comprehensive Tree Plan for the city. The Tree Board,
when requested by the City Council, shall consider, investigate, make findings,
report and recommend upon any special matter of question coming within the
scope of its work.
(Prior Code, § 210.04)
§ 31.29 OPERATION.
   The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the purpose of transacting business.
(Prior Code, § 210.04)
§ 31.30 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and make a
final decision.
(Prior Code, § 210.04)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 31.45 COMPOSITION AND TERMS.
   The Historic Preservation Commission shall consist of five members; four
shall be nominated by the City Council; one shall be nominated by the New
Richland Area County Historical Society. All members shall be appointed by the
City Council. The member nominated from the New Richland Area Historical
Society may serve only so long as they remain a member of that organization.
(Prior Code, § 210.05)
§ 31.46 ORGANIZATION.
   The Commission shall elect its own Chairperson and secretary, may provide
for its own rules, by-laws and procedures, and shall determine the date and
times of its meeting.
(Prior Code, § 210.05)
§ 31.47 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Historical Preservation Commission shall have the following duties and
responsibilities:
   (A)   To engage in a comprehensive program of historic preservation and to
preserve and promote the historical resources of the city;
   (B)   Designation of heritage preservation sites;
   (C)   Act in a resource and advisory capacity to the City Council and the
Planning and Zoning Board on matters relating to heritage preservation;
   (D)   Act in a resource and advisory capacity to owners of historically
significant sites regarding their preservation, restoration and rehabilitation;
   (E)   Promote the continuing education of the residents of the city with
respect to the civic and architectural heritage of the city;
   (F)   Maintain a public register of designated and proposed heritage
preservation sites; and
   (G)   Such other duties and responsibilities as determined by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 210.05) (Res. 02-8, passed 4-22-2002)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
31.10 or who sells land or offers land for sale or contracts for the sale of
land by reference to or by other use of any plat before the plat has been
approved by the Planning Commission and the City Council in accordance with the
provisions of §
31.10 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $700 or by imprisonment for not more than
90 days.
(Prior Code, § 210.03)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Fire Department
   
32.01   Fire Department continued
   
32.02   Appointment of officers
   
32.03   Duties of Chief
   
32.04   Duties of Fire Marshall
   
32.05   Records
   
32.06   Practice drills
   
32.07   Assistant Chief
   
32.08   Firefighters
   
32.09   Loss of membership
   
32.10   Compensation
   
32.11   Present members
   
32.12   Interference with Department
Police Department
   
32.25   Establishment
   
32.26   Chief of Police
   
32.27   Duties of police
   
32.28   Uniform and badge
   
32.29   Extra police
   
32.30   Police reserve
Emergency Protection Fire Services Fees
   
32.45   Purposes and intent
   
32.46   Definitions
   
32.47   Parties affected
   
32.48   Rates
   
32.49   Billing and collection
   
32.50   Mutual aid agreement
   
32.51   Application of collections to budget
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 FIRE DEPARTMENT CONTINUED.
   There shall be continued in the city a Volunteer Fire Department, which
Department shall have the following officers: a Chief, an Assistant Chief and a
Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 210.01)
§ 32.02 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed annually by the Council.
Members of the Department may recommend to the Council a nominee or nominees
for appointment by submitting the same in writing to the Council prior to
January 1 of each year. The Chief of the Fire Department shall appoint each
year an Assistant Chief and a Fire Marshal, subject to confirmation by the
Council. The Chief of the Fire Department, the Assistant Chief and the Fire
Marshal each shall hold office for one year and until the successor has been
duly appointed or qualified. The above named officer may be removed by the
Council for cause and after a public hearing. Firefighters and probationary
firefighters shall be appointed by the members of the Department, subject to
confirmation by the Council. Firefighters shall continue as members of the
Department during good behavior and may be removed by the Council only for
cause and after a public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 210.01)
§ 32.03 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief shall have control over all of the fire fighting apparatus
and shall be solely responsible for its care and condition.
   (B)   The Chief shall make a report monthly to the Council as to the
condition of the equipment and needs of the Fire Department.
   (C)   The Chief may submit additional reports and recommendations at any
meeting of the Council and shall report each suspension of a member of the Fire
Department at the first meeting of the Council following each suspension.
   (D)   The Chief shall be responsible for the proper training and discipline
of the members of the Fire Department, and may suspend any member for refusal
or neglect to obey orders pending final action by the Council on the discharge
or retention.
(Prior Code, § 210.01)
§ 32.04 DUTIES OF FIRE MARSHALL.
   The office of Fire Marshal may be held by the Chief or by the Assistant
Chief, if the Council approves. The Fire Marshal shall be charged with the
enforcement of all laws aimed at fire prevention. The Marshal shall have full
authority to inspect all premises and to cause the removal or abatement of all
fire hazards.
(Prior Code, § 210.01)
§ 32.05 RECORDS.
   The Chief shall keep in convenient form a complete record of all fires. The
complete record shall include the time of the alarm, location of fire, cause of
fire (if known), type of building, name of owner and tenant, purpose for which
occupied, value of building and contents, members of the Department responding
to the alarm and such other information as the Chief may deem advisable or as
may be required from time to time by the Council or State Department.
(Prior Code, § 210.01)
§ 32.06 PRACTICE DRILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief, when the weather permits, to hold a
monthly practice drill of at least one hour’s duration for the Fire Department
and to give the firefighters instruction in approved methods of fire fighting
and fire prevention.
(Prior Code, § 210.01)
§ 32.07 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence or disability of the Chief, the Assistant Chief shall perform
all the functions and exercise all of the authority of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 210.01)
§ 32.08 FIREFIGHTERS.
   The Chief, the Assistant Chief, the Fire Marshal and all firefighters and
probationary firefighters shall not be less than 18 years of age and able-
bodied. They shall become members of the Fire Department only after a 12-month
probationary period. The Council may require that each candidate, before
becoming a probationary firefighter, must satisfy certain minimum
qualifications which may be specified by the Council; and that the candidate
must pass a satisfactory physical examination.
(Prior Code, § 210.01)
§ 32.09 LOSS OF MEMBERSHIP.
   Firefighters absent from three consecutive drills or calls, unless excused
by the Chief, shall forfeit membership in the Department.
(Prior Code, § 210.01)
§ 32.10 COMPENSATION.
   Compensation shall be established by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 210.01)
§ 32.11 PRESENT MEMBERS.
   Persons who have been members of the Fire Department for at least one year
at the time of the adoption of this code section shall not be required to serve
a probationary period before receiving firefighter’s rating.
(Prior Code, § 210.01)
§ 32.12 INTERFERENCE WITH DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or make, or cause to be given or
made, an alarm of fire without probable cause, or to neglect or refuse to obey
any reasonable order of the Chief at a fire, or to interfere with the Fire
Department in the discharge of its duties. Unlawful interference shall include
the following of a fire truck when its siren and emergency lights are in
operation, closer than 500 feet, by persons not on official city business.
(Prior Code, § 210.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.25 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Police Department shall be, by this section, continued. The head of the
Department shall be known as the Chief of Police and the number of additional
members of the Department, together with their ranks and titles, shall be
determined by the Council by resolution. The compensation to be paid members of
the Police Department shall be fixed by the Council. Members of the Department
shall be appointed by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 210.02)
§ 32.26 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall have supervision and control of the Police
Department and its members. The Chief shall be responsible to the Council for
law enforcement and for property of the city used by the Department. The Chief
shall be responsible for the proper training and discipline of the members of
the Department. The Chief shall be responsible for the keeping of adequate
records and shall report to the Council on the needs of the Department and its
work. Every member of the Department subordinate to the Chief shall obey the
instructions of the Chief and any superior officer. The Council may designate
one of the police officers as acting Chief, who shall have all the powers and
duties of the Chief during an absence or disability.
(Prior Code, § 210.02)
§ 32.27 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department shall enforce the laws applicable to the
city, bring violators before the court and make complaints for offenses coming
to their knowledge. Members of the Police Department shall serve processes on
behalf of the city and shall serve these notices as may be required by the
Council or other authority. When the city is not a party to the proceedings
involved in the process or notice, the officer shall collect the same fees as
provided by law. All these fees shall be paid into the City Treasury.
(Prior Code, § 210.02)
§ 32.28 UNIFORM AND BADGE.
   Each member of the Department shall, while on duty, wear a suitable badge
and uniform furnished by the city, except that the Chief may authorize the
performance of specific duties while not in uniform. When a member terminates
membership in the Department, the member shall immediately deliver to the city
the badge, uniform and all other property of the city.
(Prior Code, § 210.02)
§ 32.29 EXTRA POLICE.
   In case of riot or other law enforcement emergency, the Chief of Police may
appoint for a specified time as many special police officers as may be
necessary for the maintenance of law and order. During this term of
appointment, the special police officer shall have only those powers and
perform only those duties as shall be specifically assigned by the Chief of
Police.
(Prior Code, § 210.02)
§ 32.30 POLICE RESERVE.
   (A)   Establishment. 
      (1)   There is created within the Police Department a police reserve
which shall consist of such number of volunteer members as the Council deems
necessary.
      (2)   The police reserve shall be under the control and supervision of
the Chief of Police.
      (3)   Members of the police reserve shall be appointed by the Chief of
Police, subject to Council approval, and may be removed at any time without
cause. They shall serve under the direction of the superior officers of the
regular police force and such others as the Chief may appoint from their own
number.
   (B)   Duties. When assigned to duty by the Chief of Police, each police
reserve member shall have the same authority, duties and obligations as regular
members of the Police Department including the authority to issue citations
except as restricted in §
32.29.
   (C)   Oath, insignia. 
      (1)   Each police reserve member shall take the oath prescribed by M.S. §
358.05, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Each member shall be issued a badge, suitable items of clothing and
such other insignia or evidence of identification as the Chief of Police may
prescribe.
      (3)   Upon termination of membership, a member shall surrender to the
city all city property issued to the member.
   (D)   Personnel rules. Personnel code sections and rules applicable to
regular employees of the city do not apply to members of the police reserve,
but each such member shall be covered as a city employee under the workers’
compensation insurance policy of the city.
   (E)   Other restrictions. 
      (1)   No member of the police reserve shall exercise any authority over
the persons or property of others without displaying identification as such
member.
      (2)   No police reserve member shall make arrests upon a warrant unless
accompanied by a regular police officer.
      (3)   Only police reserve members shall use such identification or
otherwise represent themselves to be members of the police reserve.
      (4)   No police reserve member shall carry any firearm while on duty
except as specifically authorized by the Police Chief.
(Prior Code, § 210.02)
EMERGENCY PROTECTION FIRE SERVICES FEES
§ 32.45 PURPOSES AND INTENT.
   This section is adopted for the purpose of authorizing the city to charge
for fire services as authorized in M.S. §§ 366.011, 366.012 and 415.01, as they
may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 215.01)
§ 32.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT. A contract between the city and a town or other
city for the city to provide fire service.
   FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of fire fighting personnel and/or equipment to
extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to protect
equipment, life or property in an area threatened by fire. It also includes the
deployment of fire fighting personnel and/or equipment to provide fire
suppression, rescue, extrication and any other services related to fire and
rescue as may occasionally occur.
   FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes semi-trailers. It does
not include snowmobiles, manufactured homes, all terrain vehicles or park
trailers.
   MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a town or other city
for the city’s Fire Department to provide assistance to the Fire Department of
a town or other city.
(Prior Code, § 215.02)
§ 32.47 PARTIES AFFECTED.
   The following parties are affected by the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Owners of property within the city who receive fire service;
   (B)   Anyone who receives fire service as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire within the city;
   (C)   Owners of property in towns or cities to which the city provides fire
service pursuant to a fire protection contract; and
   (D)   Anyone who receives fire service as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire within towns or cities to which the city provides fire service
pursuant to a fire protection contract.
(Prior Code, § 215.03)
§ 32.48 RATES.
   Rates for various services provided shall be established by the City Council
with the advice and recommendation of the City Fire Department and adopted in
the schedule of fees and charges in §
33.02.
(Prior Code, § 215.04)
§ 32.49 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Parties requesting and receiving fire services may be billed directly
by the city. Additionally, if the party receiving fire services did not request
services but a fire or other situation exists which, at the discretion of the
Fire Department personnel in charge requires fire service, the party will be
charged and billed. All parties will be billed whether or not the fire service
is covered by insurance. Any billable amount of the fire charge not covered by
a party’s insurance remains a debt of the party receiving the fire service.
   (B)   Parties billed for fire service will have 60 days to pay. If the fire
service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent and
the city will send a notice of delinquency.
   (C)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after this
notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and reasonable
legal means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving fire
service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
   (D)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the notice
of delinquency is sent, the City Council may also, on or before October 15 of
each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the County Auditor in
which the recipient of the services owns real property for collection with
property taxes. The County Auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all
charges collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner
notice of its intent to certify the unpaid fire service charge by September 15.
   (E)   False alarms will be billed as a fire call.
(Prior Code, § 215.05)
§ 32.50 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT.
   When the City Fire Department provides fire service to another fire
department pursuant to a mutual aid agreement, the billing will be determined
by the mutual aid agreement.
(Prior Code, § 215.06)
§ 32.51 APPLICATION OF COLLECTIONS TO BUDGET.
   (A)   Application of collections of fire charges to budget. All collected
fire charges will be city funds and used to offset the expenses of the City
Fire Department in providing fire services.
(Prior Code, § 215.07)
   (B)   Application of collection of emergency protection fire service charges
to budget. All collected emergency protection fire service charges will be city
funds and used to offset the expenses of the City Fire Department and the Rural
Fire Fund in the same proportion as expenses are allocated in providing fire
services.
(Prior Code, § 215.08)
(Ord. 09-01, passed 4-27-2009)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
33.01   Office of the City Administrator; annual audit
   
33.02   Fee schedule; adoption by reference
§ 33.01 OFFICE OF THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR; ANNUAL AUDIT.
   (A)   There is established the position of City Administrator. The offices
of City Clerk and City Treasurer are combined pursuant to M.S. § 412.591, subd.
2, as it may be amended from time to time. The City Administrator is appointed
to be the Clerk-Treasurer for the city and shall exercise all of the duties and
responsibilities of a City Clerk and a City Treasurer as specified in M.S.
Chapter 412 and elsewhere in the laws of the state and this code, as they may
be amended from time to time. The City Administrator shall also be the City
Zoning Administrator and shall execute all of the duties and responsibilities
given this position by state law and this code, as may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   An annual audit of the city’s financial affairs shall be conducted
hereafter by the State Auditor or a public accountant in accordance with
minimum procedures prescribed by the State Auditor. The Auditor shall be
appointed by the City Council.
(Ord. 205.01, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 33.02 FEE SCHEDULE; ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Fees, charges, licenses, permits and administrative penalties are listed in
the appendix to the ordinance codified herein, which is adopted by reference as
if set out in full herein. Copies are available through city offices. Changes
by ordinance may be made from time to time or as reflected in the adopted final
budget.
(Prior Code, § 210.01) (Ord. 08-02, passed 7-14-2008; Res. 09-07, passed 9-22-
2008; Res. 10-14, passed 5-10-2010)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
Water System
   
50.001   General operation
   
50.002   Use of water restricted to authorized persons
   
50.003   Willful damage to water system
   
50.004   Applications for service
   
50.005   Supply from one service
   
50.006   Private water supply
   
50.007   Street repair
   
50.008   Turning on water, tapping mains
   
50.009   Repair of leaks
   
50.010   Temporary discontinuance of service
   
50.011   Use of fire hydrants
   
50.012   Restricted hours
   
50.013   Permitting use by others
   
50.014   History of frozen pipes
   
50.015   Public Utilities Fund
Connections
   
50.030   Approval
   
50.031   Restrictions
   
50.032   Permit and fee
   
50.033   Connection fees
   
50.034   Certification
   
50.035   Additional connection fee
Plumbing Regulations
   
50.050   State Plumbing Code
   
50.051   Service pipes
   
50.052   Location of stop boxes
Water Meters
   
50.065   Use of water meters
   
50.066   Meters provided
   
50.067   Fee
   
50.068   Water meter installation
   
50.069   Meter maintenance
   
50.070   Meter testing
   
50.071   City access
Use of Water for Air Conditioning
   
50.085   Pre-existing systems
   
50.086   Maximum rate
   
50.087   Council authorization
Billing and Accounts
   
50.100   Account liability
   
50.101   Bills for service
   
50.102   Delinquent accounts
Water Rates
   
50.115   Service charge
   
50.116   Rates
   
50.117   Faulty meter
   
50.118   Sprinkler systems
   
50.119   Extra-territorial service
   
50.120   Rates reconstructing
Discontinuance of Service
   
50.135   Violations
   
50.136   Fee
   
50.137   Procedure
Abandoned Services
   
50.150   Removal
   
50.151   New service
Nonessential Water Usage
   
50.165   Purpose
   
50.166   Definitions
   
50.167   Application
   
50.168   Declaration of critical water deficiency
   
50.169   Mandatory emergency water conservation measures
   
50.170   Variances
   
50.171   Violation
   
50.172   Enforcement
WATER SYSTEM
§ 50.001 GENERAL OPERATION.
   The city’s municipal water works system (“water works”) shall be operated as
a public utility and convenience from which revenue shall be derived, subject
to the provisions of this chapter. A water division, under the supervision of
the Public Works Director, shall be responsible for the management,
maintenance, care and operation of the water works.
(Prior Code, § 800.01)
§ 50.002 USE OF WATER RESTRICTED TO AUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall make, construct or install any water
service installation connected to the city water works or make use of any water
service which is connected to the city water system, except in the manner
provided in this chapter. No building or property outside of the city limits
shall be permitted to connect to or use the city water works unless annexation
procedures are in process.
(Prior Code, § 800.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.003 WILLFUL DAMAGE TO WATER SYSTEM.
   No person shall willfully remove or damage any structure, appurtenance or
property of the water system, or fill or partially fill any excavation, or
raise or open any gate constructed or maintained for the water system.
(Prior Code, § 800.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.004 APPLICATIONS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for a water service installation and for water service
shall be made on forms prescribed by the Public Works Director and furnished by
the city at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. By signature, the applicant shall
agree to conform to this chapter and to rules and regulations that may be
established by the city as conditions for use of water.
   (B)   Application for a service installation shall be made by the owner of
the property to be served or by the owner’s agent. The applicant shall, at the
time of making application, pay to the city the amount of the fees or deposit
required for the installation of the service connection as provided.
   (C)   When a water service connection has been installed, application for
water service may be either by the owner or the owner’s agent or by the tenant
or occupant of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 800.04)
§ 50.005 SUPPLY FROM ONE SERVICE.
   No more than one house or building shall be supplied from one service
connection except by special permission of the Council. Whenever two or more
parties are supplied from one pipe connecting with a service main, each
building or part of building separately supplied shall have a separation stop
box and separate meter.
(Prior Code, § 800.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.006 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY.
   No water pipe of the city water system shall be connected with any pump,
well or tank that is connected with any other source of water supply. When any
such connection is found, the Public Works Department shall notify the owner to
sever the connection and if this is not done immediately, the city shall turn
off the water supply forthwith. Before any new connection to the city system is
permitted, the Public Works Department shall ascertain that no cross-connection
will exist when the new connection is made.
(Prior Code, § 800.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.007 STREET REPAIR.
   In case installation is to be upon a surfaced street, it shall be the
contractor’s responsibility to restore the portion of roadway as soon as
possible to its original condition, subject to approval by the public works
supervisor.
(Prior Code, § 800.10)
§ 50.008 TURNING ON WATER, TAPPING MAINS.
   No person except an authorized city employee shall turn on any water supply
at the stop box or tap any distributing main or pipe of the water supply or
system or insert a stop cock or other appurtenance therein without a city
permit.
(Prior Code, § 800.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.009 REPAIR OF LEAKS.
   (A)   The consumer or owner shall be responsible for maintaining the service
line from the curb box into the building served. Routine maintenance includes
repairing ruptured lines caused from freezing, removing obstructions caused by
roots, foreign objects, rust buildup and any excavating costs incurred.
   (B)   If the consumer or owner fails to repair any leak in such service pipe
within 24 hours after notice by the city, the city may turn the water off. When
the waste of water is great or damage is likely to result from the leak, the
city shall turn the water off immediately upon the giving of notice if repair
is not commenced immediately.
(Prior Code, § 800.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.010 TEMPORARY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The city may discontinue service to any water consumer without notice for
necessary repairs, new connection or when necessary for extra water pressure to
fight fires or for other public purposes. The city shall not be liable for any
deficiency or failure of water supply under this section.
(Prior Code, § 800.13)
§ 50.011 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person other than an authorized city employee or city firefighter shall
operate a fire hydrant or interfere in any way with the city water system
without first obtaining authority to do so from the Public Works Department.
(Prior Code, § 800.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.012 RESTRICTED HOURS.
   Whenever the Council determines that a shortage of water supply threatens
the city, it may, by resolution, limit the times and hours during which city
water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air conditioning or
other specified uses. After publication of the resolution or two days after
mailing of the resolution to each customer, no person shall use or permit water
to be used in violation of the resolution and any customer who does so shall be
charged $100 for each day of violation and the charge shall be added to the
customer’s next water bill. If the emergency requires immediate compliance with
terms of the resolution, the Council may provide for the delivery of a copy of
the resolution to the premises of each customer, and any customer who has
received this notice and thereafter uses or permits water to be used in
violation of the resolution shall be subject to the charge provided above.
Continued violation shall be cause for discontinuance of water service.
(Prior Code, § 800.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.013 PERMITTING USE BY OTHERS.
   (A)   No person shall permit city water to be used for any purpose except
upon the person’s own premises except in an emergency and then only if written
permission is first obtained from the Public Works Department.
   (B)   Anyone wishing to obtain water from a hydrant for construction
purposes shall make application to the Public Works Department for these
services.
(Prior Code, § 800.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.014 HISTORY OF FROZEN PIPES.
   Homes that have experienced freezing service line problems shall be required
to run a faucet in their home during extreme cold periods to prevent
reoccurrence of freezing. An adjustment will be made to the water and sewer
bills in these homes. A calculation of the average usage during previous months
will be used for billing purposes. In the alternative, the owner may insulate
the service line or relocate it below the frost level.
(Prior Code, § 800.19)
§ 50.015 PUBLIC UTILITIES FUND.
   There shall be maintained a Public Utilities Fund, which fund shall be used
to meet all of the expenses for operating, maintenance, repair and expansion of
the water system and for the administration of the water system. There shall be
paid into the fund all monies collected pursuant to this chapter, together with
the other funds as may be paid into the fund pursuant to resolution of the
Council. The accounting procedure shall conform to the requirements and
recommendations of the Auditor of the state.
(Prior Code, § 800.20)
CONNECTIONS
§ 50.030 APPROVAL.
   (A)   The size of water service connections and meters shall be subject to
approval of the Public Works Director.
   (B)   A meter spacer shall be furnished to the contractor or plumber, upon
request, one day before starting construction of a water service; meter spacers
shall be returned when the Public Works Director installs a meter after
completion of water service installation.
(Prior Code, § 800.05)
§ 50.031 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Utility connections must be made and determined to be operational
prior to November 1 but after April 1 of any year.
   (B)   Connections made during the winter may be attempted if the applicant
agrees to pay for any additional expense incurred; however, the city shall make
no guarantee that these connections would be possible.
(Prior Code, § 800.05)
§ 50.032 PERMIT AND FEE.
   (A)   No connection shall be made to the city water system without a permit
received from the Public Works Department and made available from the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   The fee for each this permit shall be $100 for residential water main
connection permit and $200 for a commercial connection. These fees shall be in
addition to any fees required under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 800.05)
§ 50.033 CONNECTION FEES.
   When a connection requires installation of a service line from the main to
the property line, the applicant for a permit shall pay to the city an amount
not less than the cost of making the necessary connections, installation of
pipe, excavation costs from the main to the building and appurtenances to
provide service to the property and the necessary street repairs.
(Prior Code, § 800.05)
§ 50.034 CERTIFICATION.
   No permit shall be issued to connect with any water main unless the Public
Works Department certifies to the truth of one of the following or the payment
required under §
50.035 is made:
   (A)   The lot or tract to be served has been assessed for the cost of
construction of the main with which the connection is made or that proceedings
for levying this assessment have been or will be commenced in due course;
   (B)   The cost of construction of the main has been paid by the developer or
builder platting the lot or tract; or
   (C)   If neither of the foregoing is true, a sum equal to the portion of the
cost of constructing the main which would be assessable against the lot or
parcel has been paid to the city.
(Prior Code, § 800.05)
§ 50.035 ADDITIONAL CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   If no certificate can be issued under §
50.034, the applicant shall pay an additional connection fee equal to the
portion of the cost of construction of the main attributable to the property
upon the same basis as any assessment previously levied against other property
for the main.
   (B)   The determination shall be made by the Public Works Department. If no
such assessment has been levied, the assessable cost shall be determined upon
the basis of the uniform charge which may have been or will be charged for
similar connection with the main. The amount shall be determined on the basis
of the total assessable cost of the main allocated on the basis of frontage.
(Prior Code, § 800.05)
PLUMBING REGULATIONS
§ 50.050 STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   The State Plumbing Code, as adopted in §
151.01 as part of the State Building Code, is also made a part of this chapter
as amended in this section.
(Prior Code, § 800.06)
Cross-reference:
   Modification to the State Plumbing Code, see §
151.06
§ 50.051 SERVICE PIPES.
   (A)   Every service pipe shall be laid with sufficient bend to allow not
less than one foot of extra length and in such manner as to prevent rupture by
settlement. The service pipe shall be placed not less than six feet below the
surface and be so arranged as to prevent rupture by freezing. A shut off or
other stop cock of the size and strength required shall be placed close to the
inside wall of the building and be well protected from freezing. Copper tubing
shall be used for all services of two inches or less in diameter. Joints on
copper tubing shall be as few as possible and not more than one joint shall be
used for a service up to 70 feet in length. Each joint shall be left uncovered
until inspected by the city.
   (B)   Every service over two inches in diameter shall be cast iron, or
whatever is acceptable in accordance with the State Plumbing Code. Connections
with the main for domestic supply shall be at least three-fourths of an inch.
The city shall supply a curb box, corporation stop and sufficient copper pipe
to carry the water supply from the main to the curb box location. The homeowner
is responsible for the excavation from the water main to the home.
(Prior Code, § 800.06)
§ 50.052 LOCATION OF STOP BOXES.
   Curb stop boxes shall be installed generally where desired by the owners of
occupied properties, but they shall be placed as near as possible to the curb
if on a street or within one foot of the alley line if the main is located in
the alley. They shall be installed at an approximate depth of seven feet below
the established grade and shall be left in an accurate vertical position when
back filling is completed.
(Prior Code, § 800.06)
WATER METERS
§ 50.065 USE OF WATER METERS.
   (A)   Except for the extinguishment of fires, no person except authorized
city employees shall use water from the water system or permit water to be
drawn from the water system unless the water be metered by passing through a
meter supplied or approved by the city.
   (B)   No person not authorized by the Public Works Director shall connect,
disconnect, take apart or in any manner change, or cause to be changed, or
interfere with any such meter or the action thereof.
(Prior Code, § 800.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.066 METERS PROVIDED.
   The city shall provide a water meter for each water connection installed.
(Prior Code, § 800.07)
§ 50.067 FEE.
   A water meter fee equal to no less than the cost of a suitable meter shall
be paid by the owner of the property when a meter is furnished by the city as
provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 800.07)
§ 50.068 WATER METER INSTALLATION.
   Every water meter shall be installed in accordance with the following
provisions.
   (A)   The service pipe from the water main to the meter shall be brought
through the floor in a vertical position where the pipe enters the building.
The customer service meter valve shall be no less than 12 inches nor more than
24 inches above the floor.
   (B)   The top of the meter shall not be over three feet above the finished
floor line. The meter shall be set not more than 12 inches horizontally from
the inside line of the basement wall unless a different position is approved by
the Public Works Department. A suitable bracket shall be provided to support
the meter in a proper vertical position and prevent noise from vibration.
   (C)   (1)   Each meter installation shall have a customer service meter
valve on the street side of the meter. In no case shall less than 12 inches nor
more than 24 inches of pipe be exposed between the point of entrance through
the basement floor and the customer service meter valve.
      (2)   A customer service meter valve shall also be installed on the house
side of the meter. Customer service meter valves shall be purchased by the
owner and installed by the plumber.
   (D)   The water pipe connecting the main shall not exceed two feet under the
basement wall to the water meter connection.
   (E)   Meter setting devices for five-eighths-inch, three-fourths-inch and
one-inch meters shall be of copper pipe or tubing from the terminus of the
service pipe up to and including the customer service meter valve on the
building site.
(Prior Code, § 800.07)
§ 50.069 METER MAINTENANCE.
   The city shall maintain and repair all meters when rendered unserviceable
through ordinary wear and tear and shall replace them, if necessary. However,
where replacement, repair or adjustment of any meter is rendered necessary by
the act, neglect, including damage from hot water backup or carelessness of the
owner or occupant of any premises, any expenses caused the city thereby shall
be charged against and collected from the water consumer.
(Prior Code, § 800.07)
§ 50.070 METER TESTING.
   A consumer may, by written request, have his or her meter tested by
depositing an amount as set from time to time by the Council, with the public
works supervisor. If the meter is found to be operating properly and there is
less than a 5% error, the meter testing deposit shall be retained by the city.
In case a test should show an error of over 5% of the water consumed, the
deposit shall be refunded to the consumer, a correctly registering meter shall
be installed, and the bill shall be adjusted accordingly if the meter erred in
favor of the city. This adjustment shall not extend back more than one billing
period from the date of the written request.
(Prior Code, § 800.07)
§ 50.071 CITY ACCESS.
   Authorized city employees shall have access at reasonable hours of the day
to all parts of every building and premises connected with the water system for
reading of meters and inspections.
(Prior Code, § 800.07)
USE OF WATER FOR AIR CONDITIONING
§ 50.085 PRE-EXISTING SYSTEMS.
   All air conditioning systems installed prior to January 3, 1980 and which
are connected directly with the public water system and which are of the non-
conserving type and having the regulating devices as hereinafter provided for,
shall pay a demand charge on each rated ton capacity of $20 per rated ton, per
year. The demand charge shall be in addition to the current charges for water
used and shall be billed annually on or about January 1 of each year and shall
be due and payable without penalty on the due date indicated on the bill, and
shall be subject to all the rules and regulations of this subchapter in regard
to the collection of water bills, including penalties for non-payment thereof.
(Prior Code, § 800.18)
§ 50.086 MAXIMUM RATE.
   The use of water from the water system for any non-conserving air
conditioning system, regardless of size, shall not exceed a rate of one and
one-half gallons per ton of refrigeration under maximum summer conditions, and
a water regulating valve or device limiting the use of water to the above
maximum rate shall be installed and in operation.
(Prior Code, § 800.18)
§ 50.087 COUNCIL AUTHORIZATION.
   Use of water for air conditioning shall be by Council permission only.
(Prior Code, § 800.18)
BILLING AND ACCOUNTS
§ 50.100 ACCOUNT LIABILITY.
   The owner shall be liable for water supplied to the owner’s property,
whether occupied by the property owner or not, and any charges unpaid shall be
a lien upon the property, and shall be collected in the manner set forth in §
50.101.
(Prior Code, § 800.21)
§ 50.101 BILLS FOR SERVICE.
   Water and sewer service charges shall be billed together. Bills shall be
mailed to customers monthly and shall specify the water consumed and the sewer
and water charges in accordance with the rates set out in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 800.22)
§ 50.102 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   All charges for water and sewer service shall be due on the monthly due date
specified by the city for the respective account and shall be delinquent for 15
days thereafter. The city shall endeavor to collect delinquent accounts
promptly. In any case, where satisfactory arrangements for payment have not
been made, the Public Works Department may, after the procedural requirements
of this section have been complied with, discontinue service to the delinquent
customer by shutting off the water at the stop box. When the water service to
any premises has been discontinued, service shall not be restored except upon
the payment of all delinquent bills and a fee of $40. Delinquent accounts shall
be certified to the Clerk-Treasurer who shall prepare an assessment roll each
year providing the assessment of the delinquent amounts against the respective
property’s service. The assessment roll shall be delivered to the Council for
adoption on or before November 30 of each year for certification to the County
Auditor for collection along with taxes. This action is optional and may be
subsequent to taking legal action to collect delinquent accounts.
(Prior Code, § 800.23)
WATER RATES
§ 50.115 SERVICE CHARGE.
   Each water user shall pay a service charge each month during which water
service is furnished as follows: $0.44 surcharge, a penalty of 1.5% shall be
added if the bill is unpaid after three days from the due date.
(Prior Code, § 800.24)
§ 50.116 RATES.
   In addition, each water user shall pay for water used each month at the rate
of $0.34 for the first 1,700 gallons, $0.156 for the next 8,300 gallons and
$0.122 in excess of 10,000 gallons. A minimum charge shall be based on 1,700
gallons.
(Prior Code, § 800.24)
§ 50.117 FAULTY METER.
   In case a meter is found to have stopped or to be operating in a faulty
manner, the amount of water used shall be estimated in accordance with the
amount used previously in comparable periods of the year.
(Prior Code, § 800.24)
§ 50.118 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a connection is made to an automatic sprinkler system for
standby service only, a charge for the service shall be made as set from time
to time by the Council. The rates shall apply in all cases where automatic
sprinklers are installed and where fire gates and other outlets are sealed.
   (B)   Meters or detector check valves must be installed on the services as
required by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 800.24)
§ 50.119 EXTRA-TERRITORIAL SERVICE.
   Rates due and payable by each water user located beyond the territorial
boundaries of the city shall be determined by special contract.
(Prior Code, § 800.24)
§ 50.120 RATES RECONSTRUCTING.
   (A)   The City Council shall annually determine whether or not sufficient
revenue is being generated for the effective operation, maintenance,
replacement and management of the water service system.
   (B)   The city shall thereafter reassess and as necessary revise the water
service charge then in use to ensure the sufficiency of funds to maintain the
capacity and performance to which the facilities were constructed.
(Prior Code, § 800.24)
DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE
§ 50.135 VIOLATIONS.
   Water service may be shut off at any stop box connection whenever:
   (A)   The owner or occupant of the premises served, or any person working on
any pipes or equipment thereon which are connected with the water system, has
violated or threatens to violate any of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Any charge for water, service, meter or any other financial obligation
imposed on the present or former owner or occupant of the premises served is
unpaid and in default; and/or
   (C)   Fraud or misrepresentation by the owner or occupant of the premises
served in connection with an application for service.
(Prior Code, § 800.25)
§ 50.136 FEE.
   A fee shall be established from time to time by the Council for shutting off
water service or sewer service, or both, and for reinstating water service or
sewer service, or both.
(Prior Code, § 800.25)
§ 50.137 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Water shall not be shut off until notice and an opportunity for a
hearing has first been given to the occupant of the premises and, if different
from the occupant, the applicant for water service.
   (B)   Notice shall be served by leaving it at the premises served and, if
different than the address served, by mailing a copy of the same to the address
shown on the application.
   (C)   The notice shall state the reasons for shut off of water service and
that the water service shall be shut off on a specified date if the condition
causing the shut off is not rectified. The notice shall further state that a
hearing on the shut off may be demanded before the shut off date.
   (D)   If a hearing is requested, service shall not be discontinued until the
hearing has been held and a hearing shall be held at least five days after the
demand before an impartial officer. If, as a result of the hearing, the officer
finds that a violation has occurred which justifies shut off under this
chapter, the water service may be shut off.
   (E)   No water service which is part of a residence’s primary heating source
shall be shut off between October 15 of any year and the following April 15
until the procedures of the State Cold Weather Rule, M.S. § 216B.097, as it may
be amended from time to time, have been followed.
(Prior Code, § 800.25)
ABANDONED SERVICES
§ 50.150 REMOVAL.
   All service installations that have been abandoned or have not been used for
three years or which have become useless for further service may be
disconnected at the main by the city and all pipe and appurtenances removed
shall be the property of the city.
(Prior Code, § 800.26)
§ 50.151 NEW SERVICE.
   When new buildings are erected on the site of old ones, and it is desired to
increase or change the old water service, no connections with the mains shall
be made until all the old service shall have been removed and the main plugged.
(Prior Code, § 800.26)
NONESSENTIAL WATER USAGE
§ 50.165 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes water conservation restrictions; and the plan
will be in effect at any time the Governor declares by executive order a
critical water deficiency, pursuant to M.S. § 103G.291.
(Prior Code, § 800.16) (Ord. 18-01, passed - -)
§ 50.166 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLERK-TREASURER. The person assigned duties pursuant to M.S. § 412.151, as
it may be amended from time to time; or the City Manager pursuant to M.S. §§
412.601 through 412.751, as they may be amended from time to time, or in
charter cities as determined by city charter.
   DEPARTMENT. The City Water Department.
   EMERGENCY. The declaration of a critical water deficiency by the Governor.
   IRRIGATION. The watering of shrubs, trees, sod, seeded areas, gardens, lawns
or any other outdoor vegetation, except outdoor vegetation utilized for
agricultural purposes.
   NOTIFICATION TO PUBLIC. Notification through local media, including
interviews and issuance of news releases.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIER. The city or other entity that owns, manages or
operates a public water supply, as defined in M.S. § 144.382, subd. 4, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   RECLAIMED WATER. Water collected from rooftops, paved surfaces or other
collection devices and all water utilized more than once before re-entering the
natural water cycle.
   WATER RECIRCULATION SYSTEM. Any system which enables a user to reuse water
at least once prior to returning the water to the natural water cycle.
(Prior Code, § 800.16) (Ord. 18-01, passed - -)
§ 50.167 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all customers of public water suppliers who
own or control water use on any premises.
   (B)   No person shall make, cause, use or permit the use of water received
from a public water supply for residential, commercial, industrial,
governmental or any other purpose in any manner contrary to any provision in
this chapter.
   (C)   Mandatory emergency conservation measures shall be implemented based
upon the declaration of a critical water emergency by the Governor.
(Prior Code, § 800.16) (Ord. 18-01, passed - -)
§ 50.168 DECLARATION OF CRITICAL WATER DEFICIENCY.
   Upon the declaration of a critical water deficiency by the Governor, the
public water supplier shall immediately post notice of the emergency
declaration at the usual meeting place of the City Council, or the official
city bulletin board. The city shall provide notification to the public as
quickly as possible or through established water supply plans emergency
response plans or procedures.
(Prior Code, § 800.16) (Ord. 18-01, passed - -)
§ 50.169 MANDATORY EMERGENCY WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon declaration of a water emergency and notification to the public, the
following mandatory restrictions upon nonessential water use shall be enforced.
   (A)   Outdoor irrigation of yards, ornamental gardens, golf courses,
parklands and other non-agricultural land, except for those areas irrigated
with reclaimed water, is prohibited.
   (B)   Washing or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis
courts, patios or other paved areas with water from any pressurized source,
including garden hoses, except to alleviate immediate health or safety hazards,
is prohibited.
   (C)   The outdoor use of any water-based play apparatus connected to a
pressurized source is prohibited.
   (D)   Restaurants and other food service establishments are prohibited from
serving water to their customers, unless water is specifically requested by the
customer.
   (E)   Operation of outdoor misting systems used to cool public areas is
prohibited.
   (F)   The filling of swimming pools, fountains, spas or other exterior water
features is prohibited.
   (G)   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers and other types of mobile
equipment is prohibited, except at facilities equipped with wash water
recirculation systems, and for vehicles requiring frequent washing to protect
public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 800.16) (Ord. 18-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.170 VARIANCES.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her designee, is authorized to grant
variances to this subchapter where strict application of its provisions would
result in serious hardship to a customer. A variance may be granted only for
reasons involving health or safety. An applicant may appeal the denial of a
variance within five days of the decision by submitting a written appeal to the
City Clerk-Treasurer. The City Council shall hear the appeal at the next City
Council meeting. The decision of the City Council is final.
(Prior Code, § 800.16) (Ord. 18-01, passed - -)
§ 50.171 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Violations shall be determined and cited by the City Clerk-Treasurer
or his or her designee. A violator may appeal the citation within five days of
its issuance by submitting a written appeal to the city. The City Council shall
hear the appeal at the next City Council meeting. The decision of the City
Council is final. Violators may be granted an administrative waiver if evidence
is provided that equipment failure was the cause of the violation. A letter
from a qualified vendor or equipment invoice will be required to show proof of
equipment failure.
   (B)   Upon discovery of a first violation, the violator shall be issued,
either personally or by mail, a warning letter that sets forth the violation
and which shall describe the remedy and fines for future violations.
   (C)   Upon subsequent violations at the same location, the violator shall be
issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the violation
and shall describe the remedy.
   (D)   Fines shall be added to the monthly water bill of the owner or current
occupant of the premises where the violation occurred. The imposition of the
fine shall in no way limit the right of the city to pursue other legal
remedies.
(Prior Code, § 800.16) (Ord. 18-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.172 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee is authorized to designate
city employees or law enforcement personnel to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 800.16) (Ord. 18-01, passed - -)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
Sewer Use Regulations
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Damage of wastewater facilities
Water Superintendent and Sewer District
   
51.015   Appointment
   
51.016   Duties and powers
   
51.017   Sewer District
Collection System Regulations
   
51.030   Unlawful deposit
   
51.031   Treatment required
   
51.032   Privies
   
51.033   Mandatory connection
   
51.034   Failure to connect
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
51.045   When allowed
   
51.046   Conversion
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.060   Capacity requirement
   
51.061   Permit
   
51.062   Application
   
51.063   Classifications
   
51.064   Expenses
   
51.065   Separate sewers
   
51.066   Use of old sewers
   
51.067   Sewer standards
   
51.068   Elevation
   
51.069   Illegal connections
   
51.070   Connection standards
   
51.071   Notice and inspection
   
51.072   Excavations
   
51.073   License
   
51.074   Expiration
Use of Public Services
   
51.085   Unpolluted waters
   
51.086   Prohibited discharges
   
51.087   Restricted discharges
   
51.088   Options
   
51.089   Dilution
   
51.090   Pretreatment
   
51.091   Interceptors
   
51.092   Accessibility
   
51.093   Industrial wastes
   
51.094   Measurements and tests
   
51.095   Accidental discharge protection
   
51.096   Obstructions
   
51.097   Repairs
   
51.098   Car washes
   
51.099   Assessment of costs
   
51.100   Special arrangements
Powers and Authorities of Inspectors
   
51.115   Entering onto property
   
51.116   Industry information
   
51.117   Safety rules
   
51.118   Easements
Storm Sewer
   
51.130   Establishment
   
51.131   Findings and determination
   
51.132   Finance
   
51.133   Storm Water Utility Fund
   
51.134   Fund accounts
   
51.135   Rates and charges
   
51.136   Connection fees
   
51.137   Adjustment of charges
   
51.138   Supplying information and right of entry
   
51.139   Estimate charges
   
51.140   Billing methods
   
51.141   Certification of past due fees on charges
   
51.142   Discharge of surface water
Sewer Service Charge System
   
51.155   Definitions
   
51.156   Establishment of a sewer charge system
   
51.157   Determination of sewer service charges
   
51.158   Sewer Service Fund
   
51.159   Administration
 
   
51.999   Penalty
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   ASTI. The American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The city or its representative.
   BOD5 or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning
immediately outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the pubic sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures, and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of New Richland
as presently established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY when used in this section may also be used to refer
to the City Council and its authorized representative.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
permit if the treatment facilities are designed to treat the pollutants to a
degree which complies with effluent concentrations limits imposed by the
permit.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
man and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that it shall
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined herein as a
COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid and solid wastes resulting from industrial
or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the development,
recovery and processing of natural resources, as distinct from residential or
domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or non-residential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the “Standard Industrial Classification
Manual”, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city’s wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES and/or SDS Permit. The term
includes sewage sludge use of disposal by the city in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under § 405 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1345, as it may be amended from time to time, or any regulations developed
pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., as
it may be amended from time to time, the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401
et seq., as it may be amended from time to time, the Toxic Substances Control
Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time,
or more stringent state criteria applicable to the method of disposal or use
employed by the city.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by the treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of the treatment facilities, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b), as it may be amended from time to time,.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to §§ 402 and 405
of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1342 and 1345, respectively, as they may be
amended from time to time,.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration or during which the only pollutant added
is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 150 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 175 mg/l.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS,
as defined herein.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater that one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term shall be
WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water. SEWERS
shall be classified as follows.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose shall be to collect
wastewater from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a
storm sewer.
      (3)   FORCEMAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose shall be to
transport wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (5)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (6)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (7)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters
which shall not be admitted intentionally.
      (8)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, subsurface water, street wash
water, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SHALL/MAY. SHALL shall mean mandatory; MAY shall mean permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facility which has a discharge flow:
      (1)   In excess of 25,000 gallons per average work day;
      (2)   Which has exceeded 5% of the total flow received at the treatment
facility;
      (3)   Whose waste contains a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts pursuant to
§ 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), as it may be amended from time
to time; or
      (4)   Whose discharge has a significant effect, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal
system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or emissions
generated by the treatment system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the collection
and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system, as
defined by M.S. § 115.01, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The wastewater superintendent or a deputy, agent or
representative thereof.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater”,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities. (See NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER,
defined herein.)
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city’s wastewater disposal system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
    WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation or municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof, elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Prior Code, § 810.01)
§ 51.002 DAMAGE OF WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities.
(Prior Code, § 810.07) Penalty, see §
51.999
WATER SUPERINTENDENT AND SEWER DISTRICT
§ 51.015 APPOINTMENT.
   The City Council shall appoint a Wastewater Superintendent to oversee the
city’s sewer systems.
(Prior Code, § 810.02)
§ 51.016 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The Wastewater Superintendent shall have control and general supervision of
all public sewers and service connections in the city, and shall be responsible
for administering and provisions of this subchapter, to the end that a proper
and efficient public sewer shall be maintained.
(Prior Code, § 810.02)
§ 51.017 SEWER DISTRICT.
   (A)   There shall be and is created in and for the city a sewer district to
be hereafter known and numbered as Sewer District 1.
   (B)   The boundaries of Sewer District 1 shall be coterminous with the
boundaries of the city.
(Prior Code, § 810.02)
COLLECTION SYSTEM REGULATIONS
§ 51.030 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under jurisdiction, any human or animal excrement, garbage
or objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 810.03) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.031 TREATMENT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this subchapter and the city’s NPDES/
SDS permit.
(Prior Code, § 810.03) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.032 PRIVIES.
   Except as provided hereinafter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Prior Code, § 810.03) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.033 MANDATORY CONNECTION.
   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes from which wastewater is
discharged, and which is situated within the city and adjacent to any street,
alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be
located, a public sanitary sewer of the city, shall be required at the owner(s)
expense to install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in
accordance with provisions of this code, within 30 days of the date the public
sewer is operational; provided the public sewer is within 500 feet of the
structure generating the wastewater. All future buildings constructed on
property adjacent to the public sewer shall be required to immediately connect
to the public sewer. If sewer connections are not made pursuant to this
subchapter, an official 30-day notice shall be served instructing the affected
property owner to make the connection.
(Prior Code, § 810.03) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.034 FAILURE TO CONNECT.
   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in compliance
with a notice given under §
51.033, the city shall undertake to have the connection made and shall assess
the cost thereof against the benefited property. This assessment, when levied,
shall bear interest at the rate determined by the City Council and shall be
certified to the County Auditor and shall be collected and remitted to the city
in the same manner as assessments for local improvements. The rights of the
city shall be in addition to any remedial or enforcement provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 810.03) Penalty, see §
51.999
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 51.045 WHEN ALLOWED.
   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of this
subchapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 810.04)
§ 51.046 CONVERSION.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property serviced by a
private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer within 30 days; any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
wastewater disposal systems shall be cleaned of sludge. The bottom shall be
broken to permit drainage, and the tank or pit filled with suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 810.04)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.060 CAPACITY REQUIREMENT.
   Any new connection(s) to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities including,
but not limited to capacity for flow, BOD5 and Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 810.05)
§ 51.061 PERMIT.
   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
(Prior Code, § 810.05) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.062 APPLICATION.
   Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or authorized agent and
the party employed to do the work, and shall state the location, name of owner,
street number of the building to be connected, and how occupied. No person
shall extend any private building beyond the limits of the building or property
for which the service connection permit has been given.
(Prior Code, § 810.05) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.063 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential and
commercial service, and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or any other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the city. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, shall provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of
activity.
(Prior Code, § 810.05)
§ 51.064 EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 810.05)
§ 51.065 SEPARATE SEWERS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered one building sewer. The city does not and shall not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
connection aforementioned.
(Prior Code, § 810.05)
§ 51.066 USE OF OLD SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the superintendent or his or her
representative, to meet all requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 810.05)
§ 51.067 SEWER STANDARDS.
   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the State Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and regulations
of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in the amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
“ASTI and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9”, shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 810.05)
§ 51.068 ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewer
carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 810.05)
§ 51.069 ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS.
   No person(s) shall make or continue to maintain or permit connection of roof
downspouts, foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface
runoff or ground water to a building sewer or indirectly to the wastewater
disposal system.
(Prior Code, § 810.05) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.070 CONNECTION STANDARDS.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable
rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the “ASTI and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9”. All connections
shall be made gastight and watertight, and verified by proper testing to
prevent the inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation from the prescribed
procedures and materials shall be approved by the city prior to installation.
(Prior Code, § 810.05)
§ 51.071 NOTICE AND INSPECTION.
   Applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or authorized representative thereof.
(Prior Code, § 810.05)
§ 51.072 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
   (B)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 810.05)
§ 51.073 LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall make a service connection with any public sewer unless
regularly licensed under this chapter or state law to perform the work, and no
permit shall be granted to any person except such a licensed person.
   (B)   Any person desiring a license to make a service connection with public
sewers, shall apply in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer with satisfactory
evidence that the applicant or employer is trained or skilled in the business
and qualified to receive a license. All applications shall be referred to the
Superintendent for approval. If approved by the Superintendent, the license
shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer upon the filing of a bond as provided in
this section.
   (C)   No license shall be issued to any person until a $2,000 bond or a $300
cash bond to the city shall be filed with Clerk-Treasurer conditioned that the
licensee shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the city from all suits,
accidents and damage that may arise by reason of any opening in any street,
alley or public ground, made by the licensee or by those in the licensee’s
employment for any purpose whatever, and that the licensee shall replace and
restore the street and alley over the opening to the condition existing prior
to installation, adequately guard with barricades and lights and shall keep and
maintain the same to the satisfaction of the Clerk-Treasurer, and shall conform
in all respects to the rules and regulations of the Council relative thereto,
and pay all fines that may be imposed on the licensee by law.
   (D)   The Council may suspend or revoke any license issued under this
subchapter for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Giving false information in connection with the application for a
license;
      (2)   Incompetence of the licensee; and/or
      (3)   Willful violation of any provisions of this section or any rule or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connections.
(Prior Code, § 810.05)
§ 51.074 EXPIRATION.
   The permit fee for making service connections shall be $50. All permits
shall expire on December 31 of the permit year unless the permit is suspended
or revoked by the Council for cause. A renewal shall be charged at a rate of
10% of the original fee. Upon failure to apply for a permit renewal prior to
the expirations date thereof, the permit fee for the ensuing year shall be 25%
of the original fee.
(Prior Code, § 810.05)
USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 51.085 UNPOLLUTED WATERS.
   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted water
such as storm water, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or non-contact
cooling water to any sanitary sewer. Storm water and all other unpolluted
drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designed as
storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the city and other regulatory
agencies. Industrial cooling water of unpolluted process waters shall be
discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet on approval of the city and upon
approval and the issuance of a discharge permit by the MPCA.
(Prior Code, § 810.06) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.086 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketone, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides;
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure,
bones, hair, hides or fleshing, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings,
grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastic,
asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating
oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system; and
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), as it
may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 810.06) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.087 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   The following described substances, material, water or wastes shall be
limited in discharges in municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which shall not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works treatment
process or equipment, shall not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and/or soil, vegetation and ground water, or shall not otherwise endanger
lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The Superintendent may
set limitations lower than limitations established in the regulations below if,
in his or her opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the
above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
wastes, the Superintendent shall give consideration to such factors as the
quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, the city’s NPDES and/or SDS permit, capacity of the sewage treatment
plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other
pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer which
shall not be violated without approval of the Superintendent shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C); or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment works resulting in interference therein;
   (B)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l, or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater that 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not;
   (C)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
slug, as defined in this subchapter;
   (D)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in this subchapter.
Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels,
institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places
where garbage originates from the preparations of food on the premises or when
served by caterers;
   (E)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either singly
or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public nuisance
or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for their
maintenance and repair;
   (F)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
   (G)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage or ground
water;
   (H)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not limited
to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved solids
(such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in such
quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal system;
   (I)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
   (J)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to such
degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works in excess of the following limits for such
materials:
Arsenic                                                                          0.5
                                                                                 mg/l
Cadmium                                                                          0.5
                                                                                 mg/l
Copper                                                                           1.5
                                                                                 mg/l
Cyanide                                                                          0.5
                                                                                 mg/l
Lead                                                                             1.5
                                                                                 mg/l
Mercury                                                                          0.05
                                                                                 mg/l
Nickel                                                                           1.5
                                                                                 mg/l
Silver                                                                           0.5
                                                                                 mg/l
Total chromium                                                                   0.5
                                                                                 mg/l
Zinc phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by city’s wastewater treatment 1.5
system                                                                           mg/l
 
   (K)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or ordinance of
any regulatory agency, or state or federal regulatory body; and/or
   (L)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of such
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
the materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as shall be permitted
by specific written agreement subject to the provisions of §
51.100.
(Prior Code, § 810.06) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.088 OPTIONS.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
51.087, and/or which in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment facilities, processes or
equipment; receiving waters, and/or soil, vegetation and ground water; or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b),
and all addendums thereof;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating and
disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
   (B)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment shall
be made at the owners’ expense, and shall be subject to the review and approval
of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
(Prior Code, § 810.06)
§ 51.089 DILUTION.
   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in §§
51.087 and
51.088, or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any
state requirements.
(Prior Code, § 810.06)
§ 51.090 PRETREATMENT.
   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation at the expense of the owner(s).
(Prior Code, § 810.06)
§ 51.091 INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in §
51.088(B), any flammable wastes as specified in §
51.087, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by
appropriate means, and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of
the collecting materials not performed by the owner’s personnel, shall be
performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
(Prior Code, § 810.06)
§ 51.092 ACCESSIBILITY.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure, or control
manhole, with the necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of wastes. The
structure shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed by
the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be safe
and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 810.06)
§ 51.093 INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide laboratory
measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate compliance
with this section and any special condition for discharge established by the
city or regulatory analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated
by the city. The industry shall supply a complete analysis of the constituents
with federal, state and local standards being met. The owner shall report the
results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at such times and
in such manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of
all measurements, analyses and reporting required by the city. At such times as
deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an independent laboratory.
(Prior Code, § 810.06)
§ 51.094 MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater”, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies shall be determined
on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 810.06)
§ 51.095 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
sanitary sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this subchapter. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
this protection shall be submitted to the Superintendent for review and
approval prior to construction of the facility.
   (C)   Review and approval of the plans and operating procedures shall not
relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the user’s facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   Users shall notify the Superintendent immediately upon having a slug
or accidental discharge of substances of wastewater in violation of this
section to enable countermeasures to be taken by the Superintendent to minimize
damage to the wastewater treatment works. The notification shall not relieve
any user of any liability for any expense, loss or damage to the wastewater
treatment system or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on the city on
account thereof under any state and federal law.
   (E)   Employees shall ensure that all employees who may cause or discover
such a discharge, shall be advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Prior Code, § 810.06)
§ 51.096 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   No person, having charge of any building or other premises which
drains into the public sewer, shall permit any substance or matter which may
form a deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30
days that a person neglects or fails to so act shall constitute a separate
violation of this subchapter, and the Superintendent may then cause the work to
be done, and recover from the owner or agency the expense thereof by an action
in the name of the city, the owner shall install a suitable and sufficient
catch basin or waste trap, or if one already exists, shall clean out, repair or
alter the same, and perform such other work as the Superintendent may deem
necessary.
   (B)   Upon the owner’s refusal or neglect to install a catch basin or waste
trap or to clean out, repair or alter the same after the period of 30 days, the
Superintendent may cause the work to be completed at the expense of the owner
or representative thereof.
(Prior Code, § 810.06) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.097 REPAIRS.
   (A)   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or
out of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause the work to be done as the
Superintendent may direct.
   (B)   Each day after 30 days that a person neglects or fails to so act shall
constitute a separate violation of this subchapter, and the Superintendent
shall then cause the work to be done, and recover from the owner or agency the
expense thereof by an action in the name of the city.
(Prior Code, § 810.06) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.098 CAR WASHES.
   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing facility
shall provide and maintain in waste trap in the building drain system to
prevent grease, oil, dirt or any mineral deposit from entering the public sewer
system.
(Prior Code, § 810.06)
§ 51.099 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge or prohibited wastes by such applicable to the type of service.
(Prior Code, § 810.06) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.100 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment; providing that National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards and the city’s NPDES and/or State Disposal System permit
limitations are not violated, and the user pays operation, maintenance and
replacement costs in proportion to the user’s proportionate contribution of
wastewater flows and loadings to the treatment plant, and no user shall be
charged at a rate less than that of “normal domestic strength wastewater”.
(Prior Code, § 810.06)
POWERS AND AUTHORITIES OF INSPECTORS
§ 51.115 ENTERING ONTO PROPERTY.
   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city, bearing
proper credential and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the city’s sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 810.08)
§ 51.116 INDUSTRY INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system.
   (B)   An industry may withhold information considered confidential however,
the industry shall establish that revelation to the public of the information
in question, might result in an advantage to competitors.
(Prior Code, § 810.08)
§ 51.117 SAFETY RULES.
   While performing necessary work on private properties, the Superintendent or
duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable
to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held
harmless for injury or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify
the company against loss or damage to its property by city employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 810.08)
§ 51.118 EASEMENTS.
   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 810.08)
STORM SEWER
§ 51.130 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The city establishes a storm water drainage utility, pursuant to M.S.
§ 444.075, as it may be amended from time to time, from which revenues will be
derived subject to the provisions of this subchapter and state statutes.
   (B)   The storm water drainage utility shall be established and operated as
a separate public utility and shall be supervised by the City Administrator or
his or her designee.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 51.131 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATION.
   In the exercise of its governmental authority and in order to promote the
public health, safety, convenience and general welfare, the city has
constructed, operated and maintained a storm water drainage system (“the
system”). This subchapter is adopted in the further exercise of this authority
and for the same purposes.
   (A)   The system, as constructed, heretofore has been financed and paid for
through the imposition of ad valorem taxes. It is now necessary and desirable
to provide an alternative method of recovering some or all of the future costs
of improving, maintaining and operating the system through the imposition of
charges as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   In imposing charges, it is necessary to establish a methodology that
undertakes to make them just and equitable. Taking into account the status of
completion of the system, past methods of recovering system costs, the
topography of the city and other relevant factors, it is determined that it
would be just and equitable to assign responsibility for some or all of the
future costs of operating, maintaining and improving the system, on the basis
of the expected storm water runoff from the various parcels of land within the
city during a standard rainfall event.
   (C)   Assigning costs and making charges based upon expected typical storm
water runoff cannot be done with mathematical precision but can only be
accomplished within reasonable and practical limits. The provisions of this
subchapter undertake to establish a reasonable and practical methodology for
making these charges.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 51.132 FINANCE.
   For the purpose of paying the cost of building, constructing,
reconstructing, repairing, enlarging, improving or in any other manner
obtaining the facilities or any portion of them, or administering the city’s
storm water drainage system, the city may issue and sell general or special
obligations in accordance with M.S. Chapter 475, as it may be amended from time
to time. These obligations may be payable from any of the sources as set forth
in M.S. § 444.075, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time, which
include, but are not limited to, those revenues derived by the utility as set
forth below.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 51.133 STORM WATER UTILITY FUND.
   (A)   The city establishes a Storm Sewer Service Fund as an income fund to
receive all revenues generated by the storm sewer service charge system, and
all other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement and
construction of the system, including taxes, special charges, fees and
assessments intended to retire construction debt.
   (B)   The city also establishes a budget with income and expenditure
accounts within the Storm Sewer Service Fund. Budget will be developed in
accordance with accounting principles of the Governmental Accounting Standards
Board.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 51.134 FUND ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   All revenue generated by the storm sewer service charge system, and
all other income pertinent to the system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held separate and
apart from all other funds of the city. Funds received by the Storm Sewer
Service Fund shall be placed in accordance with state and federal regulations
and the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Revenue generated by the storm sewer service charge sufficient to
ensure adequate replacement throughout the useful life of the storm sewer
system shall be held separate and apart and dedicated to affecting replacement
costs. Interest income generated shall remain in the appropriate fund.
   (C)   Revenue generated by the storm sewer service charge system sufficient
for operation and maintenance shall be held in this fund.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 51.135 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Rate determination. M.S. § 444.075, subd. 3a, as it may be amended
from time to time, states that storm water utility rates may be established
using one of the following systems:
      (1)   By reference to the square footage of the property charged,
adjusted for a reasonable calculation of storm water runoff;
      (2)   By reference to a reasonable classification of the types of
premises to which service is furnished;
      (3)   By reference to the quantity, pollution qualities and difficulty of
disposal of storm water runoff produced; or
      (4)   On any other equitable basis, including any combinations of
equitable bases referred to in divisions (A)(1) to (A)(3) above.
   (B)   Storm water drainage charges.
      (1)   Due to unique circumstances, the City Council finds it to be
excessively and unnecessarily expensive to determine a “residential equivalent
factor” (REF) for every parcel in the city at this time. Because of this, in
determining charges, the City Council establishes a basic system rate to be
charged against every property based on the land use description of that
property. For the purposes of establishing this subchapter, the following rate
class and land use description will be used:
Rate Class Land Use Description
Rate Class            Land Use Description
2 (small commercial)
                      Churches                         0.0 - 4.9 acres
                      Commercial, business, industrial 0.0 - 4.9 acres
                      Mixed-use                        0.0 - 4.9 acres
                      Multi-family                     2 - 15 units
                      Public-institutional             0.0 - 4.9 acres
                      Residential                      1.0+ acres
3 (medium commercial)
                      Churches                         5.0 - 9.9 acres
                      Commercial, business, industrial 5.0 - 9.9 acres
                      Mixed-use                        5.0 - 9.9 acres
                      Multi-family                     16+ units
                      Public-institutional             5.0 - 9.9 acres
4 (large commercial)
                      Churches                         10.0+ acres
                      Commercial, business, industrial 10+ acres
                      Mixed-use                        10+ acres
                      Public-institutional             10+ acres
 
      (2)   Future drainage charges may be established by a resolution of the
City Council in a fair and equitable manner. This subchapter also does not
prohibit the establishment of a REF system at a future time.
   (C)   Other land uses. Land uses not listed in the foregoing table are to be
classified by the City Administrator by assigning those uses to classes most
nearly like the listed uses. An appeal from the Administrator’s determination
of the property classification may be made to the City Council.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following land uses are exempt from storm water
drainage fees:
      (1)   Public right-of-way;
      (2)   Wetlands and public waters as defined by state law;
      (3)   Vacant, undeveloped land with sufficient ground cover so as not to
create any significant runoff as determined by the City Administrator;
      (4)   Agricultural land; and
      (5)   Land owned by the city.
   (E)   Storm sewer rates and charges. Storm sewer rates shall be established
from time to time by resolution of the City Council and made a part of the
city’s fee schedule.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.136 CONNECTION FEES.
   Each user of the storm sewer system shall pay the charge(s) and connection
fees applicable to the type of service, and in accordance with the provisions
of ordinances, resolutions or the city’s fee schedule as may be adopted by the
City Council.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 51.137 ADJUSTMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   The City Council may by resolution adopt policies providing for the
adjustment of charges for parcels or groups of parcels, based upon land use
data supplied by affected property owners.
   (B)   The adjustment will be made only upon recommendation of the City
Administrator and may not be made effective retroactively.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 51.138 SUPPLYING INFORMATION AND RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The owner, occupant or person in charge of any premises shall supply
the city with such information as the city may reasonably request related to
the use, development and area of the premises.
   (B)   Willful failure to provide this information or to falsify it is a
violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   The city has the right to enter in and upon private property,
including buildings and dwelling houses, in or upon which is installed a
municipal utility, or connection therewith, at all times reasonable under the
circumstances, for the purpose of inspection and repair of the system, or any
part thereof, and for the purpose of connecting and disconnecting service.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.139 ESTIMATE CHARGES.
   If the owner, occupant or person in charge of any premises fails or refuses
to provide the information requested, as provided in §
51.137, the charge for these premises shall be estimated and billed in
accordance with this estimate, based upon information then available to the
city.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 51.140 BILLING METHODS.
   (A)   All bills for the storm sewer utility are payable at the office of the
City Municipal Utilities, located in City Hall.
   (B)   The city utility billing policy and procedures shall be followed.
These policies and procedures may be amended from time to time by City Council
resolution.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 51.141 CERTIFICATION OF PAST DUE FEES ON CHARGES.
   Any storm water utility fees past due on October 1 of any year may be
certified to the County Auditor for collection with real estate taxes in the
following year or any year thereafter. In addition, the city shall also have
the right to bring a civil action or to take other legal remedies to collect
unpaid fees.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 51.142 DISCHARGE OF SURFACE WATER.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
water, such as storm water, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or non-
contact cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the city and other regulatory agencies.
   (C)   Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet on approval of the city and upon
approval and the issuance of a discharge permit by the MPCA.
(Ord. 24-03, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
51.999
SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 51.155 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATION. The fixed costs attributed to administration of the
wastewater treatment works (i.e., billing and associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs).
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD5. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of New Richland, as presently
established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a future time.
When used in this subchapter, the term CITY may also refer to the City Council
or its authorized representative.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any place of business which discharges sanitary waste as
distinct from industrial wastewater.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct the facilities.
   EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily produced by residential
users, with BOD5 and/or TSS greater than “domestic waste”, as defined in herein
and not otherwise classified as an incompatible waste.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Users which are units, agencies or instrumentalities of
federal, state or local government discharging normal domestic strength
wastewater.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
      (1)   Entities that discharge into a publicly owned wastewater treatment
works, liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in industrial or
manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural resources.
These are identified in the “Standard Industrial Classification Manual”, 1972,
Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemental under one of the
following divisions:
         (a)   Division A: Agriculture, forestry and fishing;
         (b)   Division B: Mining;
         (c)   Division D: Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E: Transportation, communications, electric, gas and
sanitary sewers; and
         (e)   Division I: Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be
considered to have the following characteristics:
         (a)   BOD5: Less than 150 mg/l; and
         (b)   Suspended solids: Less than 175 mg/l.
      (3)   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. The liquid processing wastes from an industrial
manufacturing process, trade or business including but not limited to all
“Standard Industrial Classification Manual” Divisions A, B, D, E and I
manufacturers as distinct from domestic wastewater.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Users other than commercial, governmental, industrial or
residential users, discharging primarily normal domestic strength wastewater
(e.g., non-profit organizations).
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater that is primarily produced
by residential users, with BOD5 concentrations not greater than 150 mg/l and
suspended solids concentrations not greater than 75 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the useful life
of the treatment works, and at the level of performance for which the treatment
works were constructed. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes replacement.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   PUBLIC WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. A system of sanitary sewers owned,
maintained and controlled by the city.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment works
to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works were designed and
constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facilities whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached and semi-detached housing, apartments and
mobile homes; and which discharges primarily normal domestic strength sanitary
wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users to the city’s wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditure of
the SEWER SERVICE FUND shall be for operation, maintenance and replacement
costs; and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
treatment.
   SHALL/MAY. SHALL shall be mandatory; MAY shall be permissive.
   SLUE. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION MANUAL. “Standard Industrial
Classification Manual” Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater”,
latest edition and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants as shall be defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), as it may be amended from time to time, which
upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse effects.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the user’s
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   USERS. Those residential, non-residential and industrial establishments
which are connected to the public sewer collection system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community, also referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
(Prior Code, § 830.01)
§ 51.156 ESTABLISHMENT OF A SEWER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Continuance of Fund. The city shall continue a sewer service charge
system whereby all revenue collected from users of the wastewater treatment
facilities shall be used to affect all expenditure incurred for annual
operation, maintenance and replacement and for debt service on capital
expenditure incurred in constructing the wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   Proportionate costs. Each user shall pay its proportionate share of
operation, maintenance and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on
the users proportionate contribution to the total wastewater flow and loading
from all users.
   (C)   Debt service charges. Each user shall pay debt service charges to
retire local capital costs as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Rate adoption. Sewer service rates and charges to users of the
wastewater treatment facility shall be determined and fixed in a “sewer service
charge system” developed according to the provisions of this section. The sewer
service charge system shall be adopted by resolution upon enactment of this
section, shall be published in the local newspaper and shall be effective upon
publication. Subsequent changes in sewer service rates and charges shall be
adopted by Council resolution and shall be published in the local newspaper.
   (E)   Use of funds. Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited
in a separate fund down as the Sewer Service Fund. Income from revenues
collected shall be expended to offset the cost of operation, maintenance and
equipment replacement for the facility and to retire the debt for capital
expenditure.
   (F)   Administration. Sewer service charges and the Sewer Service Fund shall
be administrated in accordance with the provision of division (E) above.
(Prior Code, § 830.02)
§ 51.157 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The sewer service charges shall be as they are adopted from time to time by
resolution of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 830.03)
§ 51.158 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   Continuation.
      (1)   The city shall continue a Sewer Service Fund as an income fund to
receive all revenues generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement and
construction of the wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special
charges, fees and assessments intended to retire construction debt.
      (2)   The city also shall continue the following sub-accounts as income
and expenditure accounts within the Sewer Service Fund:
         (a)   Operation and maintenance account;
         (b)   Equipment replacement account; and
         (c)    Debt retirement account.
   (B)   Use of funds. All revenue generated by the sewer service charge
system, and all other income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes
and special assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by
the Clerk-Treasurer separate and apart from all other funds of the city. Funds
received by the Sewer Service Fund shall be transferred to the “operation and
maintenance account”, the “equipment replacement account” and the “debt
retirement account” in accordance with state and federal regulations and the
provisions of this section.
   (C)   Equipment Replacement Account. Revenue generated by the sewer service
charge sufficient to insure adequate replacement throughout the useful life of
the wastewater facility shall be held separate and apart in the “equipment
replacement account” and dedicated to affecting replacement costs. Interest
income generated by the “equipment replacement account” shall remain in the
“equipment replacement account”.
   (D)   Operation and maintenance. Revenue generated by the sewer service
charge system sufficient for operation and maintenance shall be held separate
and apart in the “operation and maintenance account”.
(Prior Code, § 830.04)
§ 51.159 ADMINISTRATION.
   The sewer service charge system and Sewer Service Fund shall be
administrated according to the following provisions.
   (A)   Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a proper system of
accounts suitable for determining the operation and maintenance, equipment
replacement and debt retirement costs of the treatment works, and shall furnish
the City Council with a report of the costs annually in January.
   (B)   Annual review. The City Council shall annually determine whether or
not sufficient revenue is being generated for the effective operation,
maintenance, replacement and management of the treatment works, and whether
sufficient revenue is being generated for debt retirement. The Council shall
also determine whether the user charges are distributed proportionately to each
user in accordance with §
51.156 and § 204(b)(2)(A) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1283, as amended. The city shall thereafter, but not later than the
end of the year, reassess, and as necessary revise the sewer service charge
system then in use to ensure the proportionality of the user charges and to
ensure the sufficiency of funds to maintain the capacity and performance to
which the facilities were constructed, and to retire the construction debt.
   (C)   Annual notice. In accordance with federal and state requirements, each
user shall be notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that
portion of the sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance and
replacement.
   (D)   Record maintenance. In accordance with federal and state requirements,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for maintaining all records necessary
to document compliance with the sewer service charge system adopted.
   (E)   Monthly billing. Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered on
a monthly basis succeeding the period for which the service was rendered and
shall be due 30 days from the date of rendering. Any bill not paid in full
after the due date shall be considered delinquent. At that time, the city shall
notify the delinquent owner/occupant in writing regarding the delinquent bill
and subsequent penalty. The penalty shall be computed as 10% of the original
bill.
   (F)   Owner liability. The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for
the service to the premises, and the service shall be furnished to the premises
by the city only upon the condition that the owner of the premises shall be
liable therefore to the city.
   (G)   Extra costs. Any additional costs caused by discharges to the
treatment works of toxic or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of
restoring wastewater treatment services, clean up and restoration of the
receiving waters and environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the
discharger(s) of the wastes, at no expense to the city.
   (H)   Precedence. The sewer service charge system shall take precedence over
any terms or conditions of agreements or contracts which are inconsistent with
the requirements of § 204(b)(1)(A) of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1284, as it may be amended from time to time, and Federal Regulation 40 C.F.R.
§ 35.2140 of the Environmental Protection Agency’s grant regulations.
(Prior Code, § 830.05)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
51.002 shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 810.07)
   (C)   Violation of the provisions of §§
51.115 through
51.118 shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 810.09)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE
Section
   
52.01   Mandatory collection
   
52.02   Charges
   
52.03   Unlawful disposal
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 MANDATORY COLLECTION.
   It shall be deemed in the best interest of the public and residents of the
city that the Council shall contract for the legal collection of and disposal
of garbage or refuse from dwellings and places of business in the city. All
residents shall be subject to the organized collection established by the city.
(Prior Code, § 550.01)
§ 52.02 CHARGES.
   The owners of all property served by the waste collection shall pay service
charges for the service to their respective properties as established by
Council resolution. Payment of service charges shall be made quarterly to the
Clerk-Treasurer. Default of payment due the city of the service charges shall
subject the owner of the property to levy pursuant to M.S. § 443.015, as it may
be amended from time to time, and laws amendatory and the payment of charges
shall be obligatory upon all owners of property within the city.
(Prior Code, § 550.02)
§ 52.03 UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL.
   No person shall deposit litter, refuse or garbage in any public trash
barrels, unless the same shall have been accumulated or acquired while using
public property, nor shall any person place any garbage or waste in the
receptacle of another without permission from the owner.
(Prior Code, § 550.03) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 550.04)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING AND STOPPING
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Highway Traffic Regulation Act adopted
   
70.02   Squealing tires, grinding gears, backfiring
   
70.03   Erratic driving
   
70.04   Prohibited acts
   
70.05   Turning
   
70.06   Jumping rides
   
70.07   Hitching
   
70.08   Injurious materials on highway
   
70.09   Obedience to signs and signals
   
70.10   Emergency police orders
   
70.11   Snow removal at mailboxes
   
70.12   Depositing of snow
   
70.13   School zones
Thru Streets
   
70.25   Thru highways
   
70.26   Thru highway stop
   
70.27   Status of stopped vehicle
Loads on Vehicles
   
70.40   Excess weights prohibited
   
70.41   Checking loads
   
70.42   Special permits
   
70.43   Permit to be carried on vehicle
   
70.44   Dropping materials
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATION ACT ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Highway Traffic Regulation Act of the state, being M.S. Chapter
169, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be adopted as a portion of
this code, with the following exclusions or modifications: The following
sections of the Highway Traffic Regulation Act shall be excluded from this
adoption namely: §§ 169.10; 169.11; 169.965; 169.966; and 169.98.
   (B)   Individual portions of the Highway Traffic Regulation Act shall be
cited by using regular section number, subdivision number and any other sub-
classification thereof as used in Highway Traffic Regulation Act of the state
and citing the same as being a portion of this code.
(Prior Code, § 600.01)
§ 70.02 SQUEALING TIRES, GRINDING GEARS, BACKFIRING.
   No person shall operate a vehicle on a public highway, street, parking lot,
alley or other public property in such manner as to cause the tires to squeal,
the gears to grind or the motor to backfire except when an emergency creates
the necessity for this operation.
(Prior Code, § 600.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 ERRATIC DRIVING.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a public highway, street, parking lot,
alley or other public property at erratic or irregular and changing speeds so
as to create a hazard to himself or herself or to other persons or to property
or to interfere with other traffic in the area.
(Prior Code, § 600.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Except in real emergency, during authorized public parades, or when making
legal signals, no person shall drive or ride in a vehicle on any public
highway, street, alley, parking lot or other public places:
   (A)   With any part of his or her person extending outside the window of the
vehicle;
   (B)   While sitting, reclining or being on the tailgate of a station wagon;
   (C)   While standing or being above a normal sitting position in an open
convertible automobile; or
   (D)   While standing in the load area of a truck.
(Prior Code, § 600.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TURNING.
   (A)   Restriction on turns. The Council by resolution may, whenever
necessary to preserve a free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents, designate
any intersection as one where the turning of vehicles to the left or to the
right, or both, is to be restricted at all times or during specified hours. The
City Engineer shall mark by appropriate signs any intersection so designated.
No intersection on a trunk highway shall be so designated until the consent of
the Commissioner of Transportation to this designation is first obtained. No
person shall turn a vehicle at any intersection contrary to the directions on
the signs.
   (B)   U-turns. No person shall turn a vehicle so as to reverse its direction
on any street in the Business District or at any intersection where traffic is
regulated by traffic control signal.
(Prior Code, § 600.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 JUMPING RIDES.
   (A)   General rule. No person shall ride in or jump into or upon any vehicle
without the consent of the driver and no person shall, when riding, allow any
part of the body to project beyond the limits of any vehicle, except when
signaling as hereinafter required, nor shall an person board or alight from,
nor hang on to any vehicle, when the vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   Exception. This provision shall not apply to any person whose
employment makes it necessary to ride in or upon or to operate a vehicle
otherwise than provided in this section, when engaged in the necessary duties
of the employment.
(Prior Code, § 600.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 HITCHING.
   No person shall hitch a toboggan, hand sled, bicycle or similar vehicle onto
any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 600.07)
§ 70.08 INJURIOUS MATERIALS ON HIGHWAY.
   No person shall throw or place in any street any glass, nails or other
material likely to puncture or injure rubber tires of any vehicle, and any
person involved in any accident in which any such injurious materials are
caused to be thrown or placed in any street shall immediately remove the
injurious materials or cause the injurious material to be removed.
(Prior Code, § 600.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 91
§ 70.09 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   The driver of every vehicle shall obey directions given by signs, signals
and markings placed and maintained the highways by authorization of the Council
for the purpose of guiding, informing, warning or controlling traffic.
(Prior Code, § 600.09) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 EMERGENCY POLICE ORDERS.
   Any police officer in this city in case of necessity or emergency, or of
congestion of traffic, may make such special order to pedestrians or to drivers
of vehicles as in his or her judgment may be necessary to meet the emergency or
to relieve the congestion.
(Prior Code, § 600.12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 SNOW REMOVAL AT MAILBOXES.
   Property owners shall remove snow to provide access to mailboxes for post
office deliveries.
(Prior Code, § 610.14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 DEPOSITING OF SNOW.
   The depositing of snow onto public roadways is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 610.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 150
§ 70.13 SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   A school speed limit zone shall be established on S. Ash Ave between
2nd St. SW and SW 4th St.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council, by resolution, shall designate the speed limit
in a school zone. The speed limit shall be in effect when children are present,
going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours or during school
recess.
      (2)   The school speed limit shall be effective upon the erection of
appropriate signs designating the speed and indicating the beginning and end of
the reduced speed zone.
(Ord. 25-02, passed 8-11-2025)
THRU STREETS
§ 70.25 THRU HIGHWAYS.
   Highways and parts of highways may be designated by the Council as “thru
highways” (or thru streets) and the necessary signs shall be placed and
maintained on the approaches thereto, except as otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 600.10)
§ 70.26 THRU HIGHWAY STOP.
   The driver of every vehicle on any highway intersecting any “thru highway”
or “thru street” shall bring the vehicle to a complete stop before crossing or
entering upon the thru street except when an automatic signal device or a
traffic officer gives the signal to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 600.10)
§ 70.27 STATUS OF STOPPED VEHICLE.
   When any vehicle has stopped at the approach to any thru highway, the
vehicle shall have the same right on the thru highway as it would have on any
other highway.
(Prior Code, § 600.10)
LOADS ON VEHICLES
§ 70.40 EXCESS WEIGHTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
vehicles of a weight exceeding the limitations stated in the Uniform Highway
Traffic Act.
(Prior Code, § 600.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.41 CHECKING LOADS.
   (A)   Any police officer or other duly authorized person having reason to
believe that the weight of a vehicle and load is unlawful shall be authorized
to weigh the same and may require that the vehicle be driven to the nearest
scales in the event the scales are within two miles.
   (B)   The driver may then be required to unload immediately such portion of
the load as may be necessary to decrease the gross weight of the vehicle to the
maximum specified in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 600.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.42 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   The City Council may, upon application in writing and good cause being
shown therefor, issue a special permit authorizing the applicant to operate or
move a combination of vehicle or vehicles of a size or weight exceeding the
maximum specified in this chapter, upon any highway in the city.
   (B)   Every permit shall designate the route to be traveled and contain any
other restriction and conditions deemed necessary by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 600.11)
§ 70.43 PERMIT TO BE CARRIED ON VEHICLE.
   Every permit shall be carried in the vehicle to which it refers and shall be
open to inspection by any peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 600.11)
§ 70.44 DROPPING MATERIALS.
   No person shall operate any vehicle which is so constructed or loaded as to
permit the contents or load thereof to be dropped or strewn upon the street.
(Prior Code, § 600.11)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any of the provisions of this traffic code shall be a
misdemeanor unless another penalty is provided in the Highway Traffic
Regulation Act, being M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to time,
in which case, that penalty shall be the penalty for a violation of that Act.
(Prior Code, § 600.13)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING AND STOPPING
Section
   
71.01   General prohibitions
   
71.02   Trucks backed to curb
   
71.03   Parking on left side
   
71.04   Cars for sale
   
71.05   Safety districts
   
71.06   Standing with brakes set
   
71.07   Diagonal parking
   
71.08   Places of public assembly
   
71.09   Public alleys
   
71.10   Locked vehicles
   
71.11   Moving violating vehicles
   
71.12   No parking after snowfall
   
71.13   Truck parking
   
71.14   Presumptive evidence
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle whether attended or
unattended upon any highway unless a clear and unobstructed width of not less
than 15 feet upon the main traveled portion of the highway opposite the
standing vehicle shall be left for free passage of other vehicles thereon, and
the vehicle shall, except as otherwise provided, be parked parallel with and
within two feet from the curb and not closer than three feet to any other
vehicle parked along the curb. Not withstanding anything in this traffic code
hereinbefore contained, no person shall park any vehicle on any highway or
street in the city in violation of the hours for parking, hourly limits for
parking, prohibited zones for parking or in any loading zone established by
resolution of the City Council from time to time for separate locations within
the city and posted with appropriate notices, signs or curb markings as ordered
by this resolution. This resolution shall be passed by the City Council and
published in the same manner as required for a city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 610.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 TRUCKS BACKED TO CURB.
   A truck may stand backed up to the curb, if the weight or bulk of the load
so requires, and then only for a period of time sufficient to load or unload.
(Prior Code, § 610.02)
§ 71.03 PARKING ON LEFT SIDE.
   No vehicle may be brought to a stop on the left side of a highway except in
one-way streets.
(Prior Code, § 610.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 CARS FOR SALE.
   No person shall place any vehicle on a highway to display the same for sale
or exchange. A vehicle shall be deemed to be displayed in violation of this
section when found standing upon a street and bearing a sign indicating it is
for sale or exchange.
(Prior Code, § 610.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SAFETY DISTRICTS.
   No person shall park a vehicle or permit it to stand, except as otherwise
provided or unless permitted so to do by a police officer, on any highway where
the Police Department has established and marked a safety district by direction
of the Council and when and to the extent so marked.
(Prior Code, § 610.05) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 STANDING WITH BRAKES SET.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow the
vehicle to stand on any highway unattended without first effectively setting
the brakes thereon, and when standing upon any grade without turning the front
wheels of the vehicle to the curb or side of the highway.
(Prior Code, § 610.06) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 DIAGONAL PARKING.
   The Police Department may, in specific instances by direction and
authorization of the Council, mark on the roadways and curbs in the highways of
this city spaces and methods of parking or standing vehicles other than
parallel with and alongside the curb. Wherever and whenever the spaces are so
marked, the driver or person in charge of any vehicle shall not park or stand
his or her vehicle in any other manner than that indicated by the markings.
(Prior Code, § 610.07)
§ 71.08 PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   No person or driver in charge of any vehicle shall leave the same
standing or parked on any highway in this city in front of the entrance to or
exit from any theater, dance hall, church, hospital, school or any hotel having
25 rooms or more, for the full width of the entrance or exit during the hours
that the buildings are in use by the public.
   (B)   The owner of any building used for the purposes shall cause to be
placed as the entrance or exit one hour before the building is opened to the
public use, proper adequate and visible signs, subject to the approval of the
Police Department, giving notice to the public of the hours of use of the
building. The signs shall be removed when this use of the building ceases.
(Prior Code, § 610.08) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 PUBLIC ALLEYS.
   Vehicles shall not be parked in public alleys for a longer period of time
than is necessary to load and unload.
(Prior Code, § 610.09) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 LOCKED VEHICLES.
   No person shall at any time leave any motor vehicle standing upon any
highway in this city with the wheels chained, locked or fastened in such a
manner that the motor vehicle cannot be easily moved in case of emergency.
Locking of a motor vehicle so as to permit the vehicle being moved by hand
shall be allowed.
(Prior Code, § 610.10) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 MOVING VIOLATING VEHICLES.
   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing or parked upon a
highway, city street or parking lot in violation of the provisions of this
section, he or she shall be authorized to move the vehicle to a position
permitted under this section or to impound and store the vehicle as provided in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 610.11) (Ord. 19-03, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 71.12 NO PARKING AFTER SNOWFALL.
   Following a two-inch or more snowfall, no vehicle shall be parked on any
public street until snow has been plowed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 610.12) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 TRUCK PARKING.
   No person shall park a semi-tractor or trailer, or any vehicle rated with a
gross vehicle weight in excess of 15,000 pounds, except for the purpose of
loading and unloading same, on any street, highway or alley in any residential
district zone as designated on the official zoning map.
(Prior Code, § 610.16) (Ord. 08-05, passed 10-27-2008) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 PRESUMPTIVE EVIDENCE.
   The presence of any motor vehicle on any street or highway when standing or
parked in violation of this chapter is prima facie evidence that the registered
owner of the vehicle committed or authorized the commission of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 610.18)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a petty
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 610.19)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Bicycles, roller skates and the like
Snowmobiles
   
72.15   Definitions
   
72.16   Location
   
72.17   Method of operation
   
72.18   Passengers
   
72.19   Street crossings
   
72.20   Traffic regulations
   
72.21   Persons under 18
   
72.22   Equipment
   
72.23   Locking ignition
   
72.24   Animals
Golf Carts
   
72.35   Definitions
   
72.36   Driving, operating or control of motorized golf carts
   
72.37   Permits
   
72.38   Permit issuance
   
72.39   Fees
   
72.40   Unlawful acts
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 BICYCLES, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons at any time to ride and propel a
bicycle or any scooter, roller skates or in-line skates, of any kind upon or on
any sidewalk in the city.
(Prior Code, § 630.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
SNOWMOBILES
§ 72.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its
agencies and subdivisors, and any body of person, whether incorporated or not.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual control of a snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person other than a lien holder having the property in or title to
a snowmobile, or entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire strip of land traversed by a highway or street in
which the public owns the fee or an easement for roadway purposes.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SAFETY OR DEADMAN THROTTLE. A device which when pressure is removed from the
engine, accelerator or throttle, causes motor to be disengaged from the driving
track.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain steered by wheels, skis or runners.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare, roadway, alley or trail used for motor
vehicular traffic which is not interstate, trunk county state aid or county
highway.
(Prior Code, § 620.01)
§ 72.16 LOCATION.
   Except as specifically permitted and authorized in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the limits of the city:
   (A)   On the portion of the right-of-way of any public highway, street,
road, trail or alley used for traffic of motor vehicles, except the most right
hand lane which is then available for traffic in the same direction.
Snowmobiles may also be operated upon the ditch bottom where lawfully so posted
or the outside bank of a trunk, county state aid and county highways where the
highways are so configured within the corporate limits;
   (B)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel;
   (C)   On boulevards within the public right-of-way;
   (D)   On private property of another without the specific permission of the
owner or persons in control of the property;
   (E)   Upon any school grounds except as permission is expressly obtained
from the responsible school authorities; and/or
   (F)   Upon any public place except as may be specifically permitted other
than permitted by other provisions of the city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 620.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 METHOD OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the
limits of the city:
   (A)   On streets as permitted by this section at a speed exceeding 15 mph;
   (B)   During the hours from 10:30 p.m. to 7:30 a.m. Sunday to Thursday and
from 12:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. on all other days, unless going directly to or
from destination of recreation or employment;
   (C)   At any place while “under the influence of alcohol or drugs”, as
defined in M.S. § 169A.03, as it may be amended from time to time, which shall
be incorporated in this section by reference;
   (D)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all the
surrounding circumstances;
   (E)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner, or
heedlessly in disregard of rights or safety of others, or in a manner thereof
to endanger or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or
property;
   (F)   So as to tow any person or thing in a public street or highway except
through use of a rigged tow bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile;
   (G)   Within 100 feet of any fisherman, pedestrian or any skating rink or
sliding area where the operation would conflict with use or endanger other
persons or property; and/or
   (H)   During the hours from 7:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Sunday within 150 feet
of any church or house of worship.
(Prior Code, § 620.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 PASSENGERS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile within the limits of the city
with more than one passenger.
(Prior Code, § 620.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 STREET CROSSINGS.
   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway, except an
interstate street or highway; provided that:
   (A)   The crossing is made at a angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
   (B)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main roadway;
   (C)   In crossing any uncontrolled intersection, the snowmobile is brought
to a complete stop and the operator shall then yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle or pedestrian at the intersection or so close to the intersection so a
to constitute an immediate hazard;
   (D)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
   (E)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made only at
an intersection of the street or highway with another public street or highway;
and
   (F)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in condition of reduced visibility
only if both front and rear lights are on.
(Prior Code, § 620.05)
§ 72.20 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   City traffic ordinances and code provisions shall apply to the operation of
snowmobiles upon streets, except for those relating to required equipment, and
except those by which their nature have no application.
(Prior Code, § 620.06)
§ 72.21 PERSONS UNDER 18.
   (A)   No person under 14 years of age shall operate on streets or the
roadway surface of highways or make a direct crossing of a trunk, county state
aid, county highway or city street as to the operator of a snow mobile.
   (B)   A person 14 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age, may
operate a snowmobile on streets and highway as permitted under this section and
may make direct crossings on the streets and highways only of he or she has in
his or her immediate possession a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued by
the Commissioner as provided by M.S. § 84.872, subd. 2, as it may be amended
from time to time. It shall be unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile permit
the snowmobile to be operated contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 620.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile any place within
the limits of the city unless it shall be equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which shall be properly attached and which reduce
the noise of operation of the minimum necessary for operation. No person shall
use a muffler cut off, by-pass, straight or similar device on a snowmobile
motor;
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
machine under any conditions of operations;
   (C)   Safety or so called “deadman” throttle in operating condition;
   (D)   (1)   When operated between the one-half hour after sunset and one-
half hour before sunrise or at times of reduced visibility, at least one clear
lamp attached to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and
vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness
under normal atmospheric conditions.
      (2)   The head lamps shall be so aimed that glaring rays shall not be
projected into the eyes of an oncoming snowmobile operator.
      (3)   It shall also be equipped with at least one red tail lamp having a
minimum candle power of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during the hours of darkness
under normal atmospheric conditions;
   (E)   A pennant or flag of red or blazed material of a size not less than 12
inches by 12 inches by nine inches at a height of not less than six feet from
the ground level at any time when the machine is operated on public streets;
and
   (F)   Reflective material at least 16 square inches on each side forward on
the handlebars so as to reflect lights at a 90-degree angle.
(Prior Code, § 620.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23 LOCKING IGNITION.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile on a public place shall lock the ignition
and remove the key and take the same with them.
(Prior Code, § 620.09) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.24 ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any
animal with a snowmobile.
(Prior Code, § 620.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.35 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise defined in the city code, the words and terms defined in
M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be applicable
to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 640.01) (Ord. 18-02, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 72.36 DRIVING, OPERATING OR CONTROL OF MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS.
   A motorized golf cart may be driven, operated or controlled on the roadways
or shoulders of roadways under the jurisdiction of the city (not those under
the jurisdiction of the county or the state), except such roadways prohibited
by resolution of the City Council and only in strict compliance with this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 640.02) (Ord. 18-02, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 72.37 PERMITS.
   No motorized golf cart shall be driven, operated or controlled on the
roadways or shoulders of roadways under the jurisdiction of the city unless the
motorized golf cart displays a valid, current and unrevoked permit of the city.
The permit shall be displayed on the driver’s side near the front of the
motorized golf cart and must be clearly visible.
(Prior Code, § 640.02) (Ord. 18-02, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.38 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Permits shall be issued by the Chief of Police, or authorized designee, upon
compliance with this subchapter.
   (A)   Motorized golf cart permit. 
      (1)   Permits may be issued:
         (a)   To persons currently validly licensed to drive motor vehicles as
defined by M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to time. No person
whose license to drive is revoked, suspended or canceled may be issued a
motorized golf cart permit; and
         (b)   To persons age 16 or older with no valid license for reasons
other than revoked, suspended or canceled if competency and ability can be
demonstrated and upon approval in writing by the Chief of Police.
      (2)   Application for a motorized golf cart permit shall include the full
name and address of the applicant; the state of issuance of the applicant’s
current driver’s license; the number of his or her driver’s license;
applicant’s representation that his or her driver’s license is not suspended,
revoked or canceled. In the case of no current driver’s license proof of
residency and I.D. and a statement of reason for no current driver’s license
acceptable to the Chief of Police, or authorized designee; the date of
application and applicant’s signature; the name of applicant’s insurance
company; the number of the applicant’s insurance policy; and the date of
expiration of insurance coverage for the vehicle.
   (B)   Liability. The operation of motorized golf carts under this section
shall be totally the risk and responsibility of the operator. The city, by
passing this section of permission and designation under state law, assumes no
responsibility for the operation of the motorized golf carts and shall be held
harmless in any action arising from the operation of motorized golf carts on or
off any public way within the city.
   (C)   Revocation of permit. A motorized golf cart permit may be revoked by
the Chief of Police if there is any material misrepresentation made in the
permit application, liability insurance is no longer in effect, or if there is
evidence that the permittee or any person operating the motorized golf cart
cannot safely operate the motorized golf cart, or if the permittee allows
operation of the motorized golf cart in violation of any subdivision of this
subchapter. The Chief of Police shall issue a notice of revocation of a permit
in writing and either hand deliver the notice to the permit holder or send the
notice by certified mail to the address on the application. The revocation
shall be in effect immediately after personal service or three days after the
mailing.
   (D)   Permit expiration. Permits shall be issued for the calendar year. Any
permit issued during the year will expire on December 31 with no credit for
partial year.
(Prior Code, § 640.02) (Ord. 18-02, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 72.39 FEES.
   An annual permit fee shall be established from time to time by adoption in
the fee schedule of the city by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 640.02) (Ord. 18-02, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 72.40 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   No motorized golf cart shall be driven, operated or controlled on the
roadways or shoulders of roadways under the jurisdiction of the city:
   (A)   Between sunset and sunrise;
   (B)   In inclement weather, when visibility is reduced or impaired by
weather, smoke, fog or other conditions or at any time when there is
insufficient light clearly to see a person or vehicle on a roadway at a
distance of 500 feet;
   (C)   Without prominent display of a slow-moving vehicle emblem provided in
M.S. § 169.522, as it may be amended from time to time, on the rear of the
vehicle;
   (D)   Without a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver, operator or
controller, a view of the roadway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the
rear of the vehicle;
   (E)   Without liability insurance coverage;
   (F)   Contrary to any traffic law of the city or the state, except those
which cannot reasonably be applied to motorized golf carts, or are not applied,
by reason of M.S. § 169.045, subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time;
   (G)   Contrary to any provisions of the city code;
   (H)   Without a current valid motorized golf cart permit; or
   (I)   Without a valid driver’s license or declaration of competency and
ability in writing from the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 640.02) (Ord. 18-02, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violating the provisions of §
72.01 shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 630.02)
   (C)   Violation of any of the provisions of §§
72.15 through
72.24 shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 620.11)
   (D)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
72.35 through
75.40 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 640.02)
(Ord. 18-02, passed 5-29-2018)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   No parking in downtown business district. No vehicle shall be parked
in the Downtown Business District as designated on the official zoning map
between 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(Prior Code, § 610.13)
   (B)   Parking restrictions on city streets and parking lots.
      (1)   Table of parking restrictions.
 
Street                   Location                  Restriction
                                                   No parking vehicles in the
                                                   lot between the hours of 2:
                                                   00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
Legion Field Parking Lot                           inclusive, on any day of
                                                   the year, including, but
                                                   not limited to, Saturdays,
                                                   Sundays and holidays
North Birch Ave.         North of NW 3rd St.       No parking any vehicle
                         Along the south side of   No parking any vehicle
Northeast Third St.      the street between North  except as indicated by
                         Broadway Ave. and North   pavement striping near 112
                         Aspen Ave.                NW 3rd St.
                                                   No stopping, standing or
                                                   parking any vehicle without
                                                   a permit between the hours
                                                   of 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m.,
                         On the east side of the   while school is in session.
S. Ash Ave.              street between SW 2nd St. Permit(s) will be issued to
                         and SW 4th St.            property owners on S. Ash
                                                   Ave. who have properties
                                                   affected by this parking
                                                   restriction and will be
                                                   available through city
                                                   hall.
                         Within 65 feet radius of  No stopping, standing or
S. Ash Ave.              the southwest corner of   parking vehicles, except
                         the intersection of State for the loading and
                         Hwy 30                    unloading of buses
State Hwy 30                                       No stopping, standing or
                                                   parking vehicles
 
      (2)   Handicapped parking.
         (a)   Division St. The first parking space on the south side of
Division St. east of the intersection of Broadway Ave and Division St. shall be
designated handicapped parking only. No person shall park any vehicle in that
space without legally complying with state law and regulations regard these
handicapped parking spaces and displaying an official placard or license plate
identifying the vehicle as being in compliance.   
         (b)   330 S. Ash Ave. The first parking space north of the ADA curb
ramp at the north E1 entrance ramp on the west side of S. Ash Ave. and the
first parking space north and south (two spaces) of the south E17 entrance ramp
shall be designated handicapped parking only. No person shall park any vehicle
in that space without legally complying with state law and regulations regard
these handicapped parking spaces and displaying an official placard or license
plate identifying the vehicle as complying.
(Prior Code, § 610.17)
(Ord. 08-05, passed 10-27-2008; Ord. 14-01, passed 1-27-2014; Ord. 17-02,
passed 4-10-2017; Ord. 19-03, passed 9-9-2019; Ord. 25-01, passed 5-12-2025)
Penalty, see §
71.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Non-domestic animals
   
90.003   Farm animals
   
90.004   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety
   
90.005   Basic care
   
90.006   Enforcement
   
90.007   Interference with officers
Dogs and Cats
   
90.020   Running at large prohibited
   
90.021   License required
   
90.022   Limit on number of dogs or cats kept
   
90.023   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs
   
90.024   Vaccination
   
90.025   Cats
Animals as Nuisances
   
90.040   Habitual barking and the like
   
90.041   Sanitation
   
90.042   Damage to property
   
90.043   Biting animals
   
90.044   Vicious or attacking animals
   
90.045   Prohibited areas
   
90.046   Abatement
Diseased Animals
   
90.060   Running at large
   
90.061   Confinement
   
90.062   Release
   
90.063   Immediate destruction
Impoundment
   
90.085   Pound
   
90.086   Running at large
   
90.087   Biting animals
   
90.088   Reclaiming
   
90.089   Unclaimed animals
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
ANIMALS shall be classified as follows.
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, these animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS. Animals commonly associated with a farm or performing
work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, these animals shall
include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows,
bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (duck, geese), swine
(including Vietnamese potbellied pigs), goats, bees and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch or stables.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Animals commonly considered to be naturally
wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, these animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats;
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs;
         (c)   Any cross-breeds, such as the cross-breed between a wolf and a
dog, unless the cross-breed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet;
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets;
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators; and
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this division (3), including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise
restrained or confined.
   CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DANGEROUS DOG and POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog which has been found to
be dangerous of potentially dangerous pursuant to M.S. §§ 347.50 through
347.55, as they may be amended from time to time.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, harboring, feeding or acting as custodian of an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT. A permit issued by the city for the release of any animal
that has been taken to the pound. A RELEASE PERMIT may be obtained upon payment
of a fee in accordance with that regular license requirement and payment of a
release fee and any maintenance costs incurred. The release fee shall be set by
§
33.02. For the purpose of a RELEASE PERMIT, any change in the registered
ownership of an animal subsequent to its impoundment and release shall reset
that animal’s impoundment count to the beginning of the fee scale.
(Prior Code, § 300.01)
§ 90.002 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor or offer for
sale, any non-domestic animal within the city limits. Any owner of such an
animal at the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to
remove the animal from the city after which time the city may impound the
animal as provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this
prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory or a licensed show or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 300.03) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.003 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall only be kept in an agricultural district of the city, or
on a residential lot of at least ten acres in size; provided that no animal
shelter shall be within 300 feet of an adjoining piece of property. An
exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought into the city
as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory or a licensed show or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 300.04) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.004 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or police officer an animal
presents an immediate danger to the health and safety of any person, the
officer may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to protect the
person. The person or officer may apprehend the animal and deliver it to the
pound for confinement. In such a case, the owner or keeper of the animal shall
be liable for the cost of maintenance provided, and if the animal is destroyed,
the owner is responsible for all associated costs. If the animal is found not
to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to the
owner or keeper in accordance with this chapter. The animal may be released to
other persons in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 300.06) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 BASIC CARE.
   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers a kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating his or her pet in such a humane manner will be subject to
the penalties provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 300.08) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department will be responsible for enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 300.09)
§ 90.007 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder or interfere with any person
authorized by the Council to capture dogs, cats or other animals and convey
them to the pound while engaged in such cooperation. Nor shall any unauthorized
person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or attempt to take
from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance with this
chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder an officer in the
discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 300.12) Penalty, see §
90.999
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.020 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat of any person who owns, harbors or
keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A person, who owns, harbors or keeps a dog
or cat which runs at large shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a
leash and accompanied by a responsible person or accompanied by and under the
control and direction of a responsible person, so as to be effectively
restrained by command as by leash, shall be permitted in streets or on public
land unless the city has posted an area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats
Prohibited”.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.021 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of any dog or cat shall register the dog or cat with the
city at the time the dog or cat is brought into the city. The registration
shall be in writing on a form prescribed and furnished by the city to the owner
and the form shall state the name, sex, breed, age, color and marking of the
dog or cat being registered, and the name and address of the owner of the dog
or cat and certify all required vaccinations will be kept current. The
registration shall be valid for the life of the pet from the date a license is
issued.
   (B)   Upon the filing of the registration form with the city and the payment
of the registration fee set by the City Council in §
33.02 per dog or cat being registered, to the city by the dog’s or cat’s owner
the city shall assign a serial number to the registration form and note the
number on the form. The city shall then issue to the owner a metal tag for each
dog or cat registered. The metal tag shall bear the same serial number assigned
to and noted on the registration form. The owner shall cause the tag to be
securely fastened to a collar which shall at all times be worn by any
registered dog or cat when off the owner’s premises.
   (C)   In case any dog or cat tag is lost, a substitute tag may be issued by
the city upon presentation of a receipt showing payment of the license fee for
the current year. A replacement fee set in §
33.02 shall be made for each substitute tag.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to counterfeit or attempt to counterfeit the tags
provided for in this section or take from any dog or cat a tag legally placed
upon it by its owner with the intent to place it upon another dog or cat, or to
place the tag upon another dog or cat.
   (E)   Dog or cat tags shall not be transferable and no refunds shall be made
on any dog or cat license fee because of leaving the city or death of the dog
or cat before the expiration of the license period.
   (F)   The licensing provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs or
cats whose owners are non-residents temporarily within the city, nor to dogs or
cats brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any licensed
exhibition, nor shall this provision apply to service animals properly trained
to assist physically challenged persons.
   (G)   The funds received by the city from all dog or cat licenses and
metallic tags fees shall first be used to defray any costs incidental to the
enforcement of this section; including, but not restricted to, the costs of
licenses, metallic tags and impounding and maintenance of the dogs or cats.
(Prior Code, § 300.02) (Ord. 14-02, passed 10-27-2014) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.022 LIMIT ON NUMBER OF DOGS OR CATS KEPT.
   No household shall own, keep, harbor or allow the keeping of more than two
adult dogs or five adult cats or five animals that consist of a combination of
cats and dogs with a two-dog maximum. For the purposes of this section, an
ADULT DOG shall be any dog older than six months of age.
(Prior Code, § 300.02) (Ord. 14-02, passed 10-27-2014) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.023 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   No person shall keep any dangerous or potentially dangerous dog without
registering the dog with the city pursuant to M.S. § 347.51, as it may be
amended from time to time. No person shall keep any dangerous dog or
potentially dangerous dog unless the dog is properly confined or muzzled, and
otherwise provided for pursuant to M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.55, as they may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 300.02) (Ord. 14-02, passed 10-27-2014) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.024 VACCINATION.
   (A)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained or transported within the
city shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed
veterinarian for:
      (1)   Rabies - with a currently effective vaccine; and
      (2)   Distemper.
   (B)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the date
of vaccination, owner’s name and address, the animal’s name (if applicable),
sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine and the veterinarian’s
signature. Upon demand made by the Clerk-Treasurer or a police officer, the
owner shall present for examination the required certificate(s) of vaccination
for their animal(s). In cases where certificates are not presented, the owner
or keeper of the animal(s) shall have seven days in which to present the
certificate(s) to the enforcement officer. Failure to do so shall be deemed a
violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 300.02) (Ord. 14-02, passed 10-27-2014) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.025 CATS.
   Cats shall be included as controlled by this section insofar as running at
large, pickup, impounding, boarding, licensing and proof of anti-rabies vaccine
is concerned. All other provisions of this subchapter shall also apply to cats
unless otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 300.02) (Ord. 14-02, passed 10-27-2014)
ANIMALS AS NUISANCES
§ 90.040 HABITUAL BARKING AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. HABITUAL BARKING shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner’s or
caretaker’s premises.
   (B)   Warrant required. The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall
not enter the property of the owner of an animal described in this section
unless the officer has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or
has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided
for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041 SANITATION.
   (A)   Any person who owns, keeps or harbors a dog or cat shall have the
responsibility for keeping their property clean of all fecal matter created by
the animal. All animal waste shall be removed periodically so as to keep the
surrounding area free from obnoxious odors. For the purpose of this subchapter,
PERIODICALLY shall be defined as a period of time not to exceed one week.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person who owns, keeps or harbors a dog or cat
to cause or permit the dog or cat to be on any property not owned or possessed
by this person without having a device or equipment for immediately picking up
and removing animal feces to a proper receptacle located upon property owned or
possessed by the person.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person who is in control of any dog or cat, or
who causes or permits any dog or cat to be on any property not owned or
possessed by the person, to fail to remove feces left by the animal to a proper
receptacle located on property owned or possessed by the person.
   (D)   This section does not apply to the ownership or use of seeing eye dogs
by blind persons, dogs used in police activities by the city, or tracking dogs
when used by or with the permission of the city.
(Prior Code, § 300.05) (Ord. 15-04, passed 7-27-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.042 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to permit their dog or other animal to
damage any lawn, garden or other property. Any animal covered by this section
may be impounded as provided in this subchapter or a complaint may be issued by
anyone aggrieved by a dog under this subchapter, against the owner of the
animal for prosecution under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 300.05) (Ord. 15-04, passed 7-27-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.043 BITING ANIMALS.
   An animal may be declared a nuisance if it at any time has attacked or
bitten a person off of the owner’s property.
(Prior Code, § 300.05) (Ord. 15-04, passed 7-27-2015)
§ 90.044 VICIOUS OR ATTACKING ANIMALS.
   An animal may be declared a nuisance if it is vicious or shows vicious
habits, or molests pedestrians or bicyclists, or interferes with the driving of
automobiles on public streets.
(Prior Code, § 300.05) (Ord. 15-04, passed 7-27-2015)
§ 90.045 PROHIBITED AREAS.
   No animal other than guide animals shall be permitted on the city beach
area, nor shall any animal be allowed to swim in the city beach area. No animal
shall be allowed in any city park or picnic area except if restrained and
attended to by an adult. No animal shall be permitted in the municipal bath
house.
(Prior Code, § 300.05) (Ord. 15-04, passed 7-27-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.046 ABATEMENT.
   Any animals kept contrary to this subchapter are declared a public nuisance
and may be abated according to the law.
(Prior Code, § 300.05) (Ord. 15-04, passed 7-27-2015)
DISEASED ANIMALS
§ 90.060 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or her premises, or on
premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in the city, any animal
which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and safety of the city,
even though the animal be properly licensed under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 300.07) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.061 CONFINEMENT.
   Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and presenting a threat to
the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended and confined in the
pound by any person or police officer. The police officer shall have a
qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If the animal is found to be
diseased in such a manner so as to be a danger to the health and safety of the
city, the officer shall authorize the pound to take all appropriate action to
protect the public and other animals. The owner or keeper of the animal shall
be liable for the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the
costs of any veterinarian examinations.
(Prior Code, § 300.07)
§ 90.062 RELEASE.
   If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased within the
meaning of this subchapter, then the animal shall be released to the owner or
keeper free of charge.
(Prior Code, § 300.07)
§ 90.063 IMMEDIATE DESTRUCTION.
   If an animal is rabid or otherwise diseased, vicious or dangerous, or
otherwise poses an imminent threat to the health, safety and welfare of the
public, and the animal cannot be impounded after reasonable effort or without
serious risk to the impounder or others, the animal may be immediately killed
by law enforcement officers.
(Prior Code, § 300.07)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 90.085 POUND.
   The Council shall designate an official pound to which animals found in
violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe treatment, and if necessary,
for destruction.
(Prior Code, § 300.10)
§ 90.086 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   Any police officer may impound any dog found unlicensed or any animal found
running at large or any animal claimed to be at large by the occupant of the
premises upon which the animal is found and shall give notice of the impounding
to the owner of the dog or other animal, if known. In case the owner is
unknown, the officer shall post notice at the city office that if the dog or
other animal is not claimed within five regular business days of the posting of
the notice, it will be sold or otherwise disposed of. Except as otherwise
provided in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful to kill, destroy or otherwise
cause injury to any animal, including dogs and cats running at large.
(Prior Code, § 300.11) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.087 BITING ANIMALS.
   Any animal that has not been inoculated by a currently effective rabies
vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has been punctured or
the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in the City Pound for
a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the owner. The animal may
be released at the end of that time if healthy and free from symptoms of
rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However, if the owner of
the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of need for this
confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine the animal
for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the owner’s
choosing, not outside of the county, and provide immediate proof of the
confinement in such manner as may be required, the owner may do so. If,
however, the animal has been inoculated with a currently effective rabies
vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a certificate from a
licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or other animal to the
owner’s property.
(Prior Code, § 300.11)
§ 90.088 RECLAIMING.
   (A)   All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with kind treatment
and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five regular business
days, unless sooner reclaimed by their owners or keepers as provided by this
subchapter.
   (B)   In case the owner or keeper shall desire to reclaim the animal from
the pound, the following shall be required, unless otherwise provided for in
this code:
      (1)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit from the
city;
      (2)   Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   If a dog or cat is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee and
valid certificate of vaccination for rabies and distemper shots is required.
(Prior Code, § 300.11)
§ 90.089 UNCLAIMED ANIMALS.
   At the expiration of five regular business days from the time any animal is
impounded, if the animal has not been reclaimed in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, the officer appointed to enforce this subchapter
may let any person claim the animal by complying with all provisions in this
subchapter, or the officer may sell the animal to the University of Minnesota,
or direct the pound to dispose of the animal in a humane manner. Any monies
collected under this subchapter shall be payable to the city.
(Prior Code, § 300.11)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of this chapter is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such under this section.
      (2)   Misdemeanor. Except as otherwise noted, violation of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor and may also be subject to administrative
penalty.
(Prior Code, § 300.13)
   (C)   Violation of §§
90.020 through
90.025 is a petty misdemeanor and may be subject to administrative penalty.
(Prior Code, § 300.02)
(Ord. 11-01, passed 4-11-2011; Ord. 14-02, passed 10-27-2014)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Assessable current services
   
91.02   Tree diseases and shade tree pest control
Nuisances
   
91.15   Public nuisance
   
91.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
91.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
91.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
91.19   Nuisance parking and storage
   
91.20   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
91.21   Building maintenance and appearance
   
91.22   Duties of city officers
   
91.23   Abatement
   
91.24   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
91.35   Short title
   
91.36   Jurisdiction
   
91.37   Definitions; exclusions
   
91.38   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
91.39   Filing complaint
   
91.40   Notice of violations
   
91.41   Appeals
   
91.42   Abatement by city
   
91.43   Liability
Open Burning
   
91.55   Rules and laws adopted by reference
   
91.56   Definitions
   
91.57   Prohibited materials
   
91.58   Permit required for open burning
   
91.59   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
91.60   Permit application for open burning; permit fees
   
91.61   Permit process for open burning
   
91.62   Permit holder responsibility
   
91.63   Revocation of open burning permit
   
91.64   Denial of open burning permit
   
91.65   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
91.66   External solid fuel-fired heating devices (outdoor wood burning stoves)
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice or rubbish
removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from plots adjacent to sidewalks or
from private property; removal or elimination of public health or safety
hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous building included in
M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26, as they may be amended from time to time;
installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling, street
flushing, light street oiling or other dust treatment of streets; repair of
sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound and
insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property; and the
operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Clerk-Treasurer or other person
designated by the City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all
snow, ice, dirt and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any
matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The
City Clerk-Treasurer or other designated person shall keep a record showing the
cost of removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under Chapter
50 of this code, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of the total cost
of the installation or repair against the property.
   (E)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object or contrivance upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment
or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any
vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum
weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or
moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner
and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any such damage. Any
person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act damages
any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which amount shall
be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended
from time to time.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 TREE DISEASES AND SHADE TREE PEST CONTROL.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. The health of the trees in the city is
threatened by shade tree pests, and the loss or ill health of trees growing
upon public and private property substantially depreciates the value of
property within the city and impairs the safety, good order, general welfare
and convenience of the public. In addition to and in accordance with M.S. §§
89.001, 89.01 and 89.51 through 89.64, as those sections may be amended from
time to time, the provisions of this section are adopted to attempt to control
and prevent the spread of these shade tree pests.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The city shall have control of all street trees, shrubs
and other plantings now or hereafter in any street, park, public right-of-way
or easement or other public place within the city limits, and shall have the
power to plant, care for, maintain, remove and replace these trees, shrubs and
other plantings.
   (C)   Declaration of a shade tree pest. The Council may declare any
vertebrate or invertebrate animal, plant pathogen or plant threatening to cause
significant damage to a shade tree or community forest, as defined by M.S. §
89.001, as it may be amended from time to time, to be a shade tree pest and
prescribe control measures to effectively eradicate, control or manage the
shade tree pest including necessary timelines for action.
   (D)   Public nuisances declared. A shade tree pest declared by Council
occurring within a declared control zone is a public nuisance.
   (E)   Shade tree pest nuisances are unlawful. It is unlawful for any person
to permit any public nuisance as defined in this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The nuisance may be
abated as provided in this section.
   (F)   Definition of control areas. Upon declaring a shade tree pest, the
Council may define one or more locations within the geographic boundaries of
the city to be within a shade tree pest control area provided such locations
are characterized by biologic, composition, environmental and size factors
favorable to successful application of the control measures prescribed by
Council.
   (G)   Tree Inspector. The Council may appoint a Tree Inspector to coordinate
the activities of the city relating to the control and prevention of damage by
shade tree pests. The Tree Inspector will recommend to the Council the details
of any program for the declaration, control and prevention of shade tree pests.
The Tree Inspector is authorized to enforce or cause to be enforced the tasks
incident to such a program adopted by the Council. The term TREE INSPECTOR
includes any person designated by Council or the Tree Inspector to carry out
activities authorized in this section.
   (H)   Abatement of shade tree pest nuisances.
      (1)   In abating a nuisance declared by ordinance under divisions (B) and
(C), the organism, condition or plant and any tree, wood or material identified
as injurious to the health of shade trees shall be removed or effectively
treated so as to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the spread of the
shade tree pest. These abatement procedures shall be carried out in accordance
with the control measures and areas prescribed by ordinance according to
divisions (C) and (K) and (O).
      (2)   In addition, should the appropriate abatement procedure be removal
and the tree(s) and/or hedge(s) be within the limits of a highway in a rural
area within the city’s jurisdiction, M.S. § 160.22, as it may be amended from
time to time, shall be complied with as necessary.
   (I)   Reporting discovery of shade tree pest. Any owner or occupier of land
or any person engaged in tree trimming or removal who becomes aware of the
existence of public nuisance caused by a shade tree pest as defined under
division (C) shall report the same to the city.
   (J)   Registration of tree care firms. Any person, firm or corporation that
provides tree care, tree trimming or removal of trees, limbs, branches, brush
or shrubs for hire must be registered with the State Commissioner of
Agriculture under M.S. § 18G.07, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (K)   Inspection and application of control measures.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector is authorized to inspect premises and places
within the city to determine whether shade tree pests exist thereon and to
investigate all reported incidents of shade tree pests. The Tree Inspector is
authorized to take all reasonable measures to prevent the maintenance of public
nuisances and may enforce the provisions relating to abatement in this section.
Diagnosis of shade tree pests may be by the presence of commonly recognized
symptoms or by tests as may be recommended by the Commissioner of the State
Department of Agriculture or the Commissioner of the State Department of
Natural Resources or other reliable means.
      (2)   Except in situations of imminent danger to human life and safety,
the Tree Inspector shall not enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing maintenance of public nuisances without the permission
of the owner, resident or other person in control of the property, unless the
Tree Inspector has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry.
      (3)   No person, firm or corporation shall interfere with the Tree
Inspector acting under his or her authority while engaged in activities
authorized by this section.
   (L)   Standard abatement procedure. Except as provided in divisions (M) and
(O), whenever a Tree Inspector determines with reasonable certainty that a
public nuisance as described by this section is being maintained or exists on
premises in the city, the Tree Inspector is authorized to abate a public
nuisance according to the following procedure.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector will notify in writing the owner of record or
occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be terminated
or abated. The notice may be given in person or by mail. Failure of any party
to receive the mail does not invalidate the service of the notice. A copy of
the notice shall be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The notice of abatement shall state that unless the public nuisance
is abated by the owner or occupant, it will be abated by the city at the
expense of the owner or occupant. The notice shall specify the control measures
to be taken to abate the nuisance, and provide a reasonable amount of time to
abate the nuisance. The notice will also state that the owner or occupant has
the right to appeal the determination that a public nuisance exists by
submitting a request in writing to the City Clerk-Treasurer within seven days
after service of the notice, or before the date by which abatement must be
completed, whichever comes first.
      (3)   If no timely appeal is submitted, and the notice of abatement and
its prescribed control measures are not complied with within the time provided
by the notice or any additional time granted, the Tree Inspector or designated
person shall have the authority to obtain permission or an administrative
search warrant, enter the property and carry out abatement in accordance with
the notice of abatement.
   (M)   High cost abatement. If the Tree Inspector determines that the cost of
abating a nuisance will exceed $5,000 based on a reasonable, good faith
estimate, the written notice referred to in division (L) must provide that if
the nuisance is not abated within the reasonable amount of time provided, the
matter will be referred to the City Council for a hearing. The date, time and
location of the hearing must be provided in the notice.
   (N)   Appeal procedure. If the City Clerk-Treasurer receives a written
request for a hearing on the question of whether a public nuisance in fact
exists, the City Council shall hold a hearing within seven calendar days
following receipt by the Clerk-Treasurer of the written request. At least three
days’ notice shall be given to the individual who made the written request for
the hearing. The Council may modify the abatement notice or extend the time by
which abatement must be completed. Each owner, agent of the owner, occupant and
lienholder of the subject property or properties in attendance, if any, shall
be given the opportunity to present evidence at the hearing. After holding the
hearing, the City Council may issue an order requiring abatement of the
nuisance.
   (O)   Abatement procedure in event of imminent danger.
      (1)   If the Tree Inspector determines that the danger of infestation to
other shade trees is imminent and delay in control measures may put public
health, safety or welfare in immediate danger, the Tree Inspector may provide
for abatement without following divisions (L) or (M) above. The Tree Inspector
must reasonably attempt to notify the owner or occupant of the affected
property of the intended action and the right to appeal the abatement and any
cost recovery at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the city, without notice or
other process, from immediately abating any condition which poses an imminent
and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (P)   Recovery of cost of abatement; liability and assessment.
      (1)   The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been abated by the
city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the abatement,
including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been completed and the
cost determined, the City Clerk-Treasurer or other official shall prepare a
bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount shall be
immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as it may
be amended from time to time, the City Clerk-Treasurer may list the total
unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as other charges for
current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from
time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The City Council may then certify the charges against the
property under that statute and other pertinent statutes to the County Auditor
for collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments as the City Council may determine in each case.
   (Q)   Declared shade tree pests, control measures and control areas.
      (1)   Oak wilt. OAK WILT is declared a shade tree pest and is defined as
any living or dead tree, log, firewood, limb, branch, stump or other portion of
a tree from any species of the genus Quercus existing within the control area
defined that has bark attached and that exceeds three inches in diameter or ten
inches in circumference and contains to any degree any spore or reproductive
structures of the fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum. Control measures prescribed
for abating oak wilt disease are as follows.
         (a)   Installation of a root graft barrier. A root graft barrier can
be ordered installed to prevent the underground spread of oak wilt disease. The
city will mark the location of the root graft barrier. The barrier disrupts
transmission of the fungus within the shared vascular systems of root grafted
trees. The barrier is created by excavating or vibratory plowing a line at
least 42 inches deep between any oak tree infected with oak wilt disease and
each nearby and apparently healthy oak tree within 50 feet of the infected
tree.
         (b)   Removal and disposal of trees on property zoned for residential
and commercial use. On property that is zoned residential and commercial the
city may mark for removal trees that have the potential to produce spores of
the fungus Ceratocvstis fagacearum. After, and in no case before, the
installation of the root graft barrier and no later than May 1 of the year
following infection all marked trees must be felled. The stump from these
felled trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if
taller, must be completely debarked. If, however, after the city prescribes the
location for a root graft barrier, the city determines that installation of the
barrier is impossible because of the presence of pavement or obstructions such
as a septic system or utility line, the city may mark for removal all oak trees
whether living or dead, infected or not and located between an infected tree
and the marked barrier location. These marked trees must be felled and disposed
of no later than May 1 of the year following infection. The stump from these
felled trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if
taller, must be completely debarked.
         (c)   Removal and disposal of trees on all other property. On all
other property, the city may mark for removal all oak trees whether living or
dead, infected or not and located between an infected tree and the marked
barrier location. These marked trees must be felled and disposed of no later
than May 1 of the year following infection. The stump from these felled trees
must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if taller, must be
completely debarked.
         (d)   Wood disposal. All wood more than three inches in diameter or
ten inches in circumference from these felled trees must be disposed of by
burying or debarking or chipping or sawing into wane-free lumber or by
splitting into firewood, stacking the firewood and immediately covering the
woodpile with unbroken 4-mil or thicker plastic sheeting that is sealed into
the ground until October 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in
which the tree was felled or by burning before May 1 of the year following
infection. Wood chips from infected trees may be stockpiled or immediately used
in the landscape.
         (e)   The control area for oak wilt disease is defined as all lands
within the boundaries of the city.
      (2)   Emerald ash borer. EMERALD ASH BORER is declared a shade tree pest
and is defined as an insect that attacks and kills ash trees. The adults are
small, iridescent green beetles that live outside of trees during the summer
months. The larvae are grub or worm-like and live underneath the bark of ash
trees.
         (a)   Control measures prescribed for abating emerald ash borer are
those provided in the document, “Guidelines to Slow the Growth and Spread of
Emerald Ash Borer” from the State Department of Agriculture.
         (b)   The control area for emerald ash borer is defined as all lands
within the boundaries of the city.
      (3)   Dutch elm disease. DUTCH ELM DISEASE is declared a shade tree pest
and is defined as a disease of elm trees caused by the fungus Ophiostoma ulmi
or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi, and includes any living or dead tree, log, firewood,
limb, branch, stump or other portion of a tree from any species of the genus
Ulmus existing within the control area defined that has bark attached and that
exceeds three inches in diameter or ten inches in circumference and could
contain bark beetles or any spore or reproductive structures of the fungus
Ophiostoma ulmi or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi.
         (a)   Control measures prescribed for abating Dutch elm disease are as
follows.
            1.   Use of fungicide. Fungicides may be effective in preventing
Dutch elm disease when injected into living trees that do not already show
symptoms of Dutch elm disease. Fungicide injections on private lands are
optional and, if performed, are at the landowner’s expense.
            2.   Removal and disposal of trees. Prompt removal of diseased
trees or branches reduces breeding sites for elm bark beetles and eliminates
the source of Dutch elm disease fungus. Trees that wilt before July 15 must be
removed within 20 days of detection. Trees that wilt after July 15 must be
removed by April 1 of the following year. Diseased trees not promptly removed
will be removed by the city at the landowner’s expense. Wood may be retained
for use as firewood or sawlogs if it is de-barked or covered from April 15 to
October 15 with 4 mil plastic. The edges of the cover must be buried or sealed
to the ground.
         (b)   The control area for Dutch elm disease is defined as all lands
within the boundaries of the city.
Penalty, see §
91.99
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A person must not act, or fail to act in a manner that is or causes a public
nuisance. For purpose of this chapter, a person who does any of the following
is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or §§
91.16,
91.17 or
91.18, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public morals and
decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor is manufactured or
disposed of in violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are
permitted to resort for the purpose of drinking intoxicating or 3.2% malt
liquor, or where intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor is kept for sale or other
disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and other property used for
maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   Any person participating in any party or other gathering that causes
the unreasonable disturbing of the peace, quiet or repose of another person in
such a manner as to be plainly audible at the boundary of the real property,
building, structure or residence from which the noise originates, or at a
distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise. PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as
sound that can be detected by a person using their unaided hearing faculties;
   (E)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations;
   (F)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (G)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (H)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (I)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (J)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (K)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (L)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (M)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
properties;
   (N)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (O)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (P)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (Q)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (R)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (S)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel;
   (T)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone;
   (U)   (1)   Prohibited noises. The following noises are prohibited:
         (a)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace,
safety or welfare of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property, or
affects their property’s value in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the
boundary of the real property, building, structure or residence from which the
noise originates, or at a distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise.
This general prohibition is not limited by any specific restrictions provided
in this chapter. PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as sound that can be detected by a
person using their unaided hearing faculties;
         (b)   All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation
of Minn. Rules. Ch. 7030, as they may be amended from time to time, are
incorporated into this chapter by reference;
         (c)   The use of any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to
create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise;
         (d)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of
the exhaust of any statutory internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile or any recreational
device, except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
         (e)   Any loud or excessive noise in the loading, unloading or
unpacking of any vehicle; and
         (f)   The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device, paging
system, machine or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a
distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and
comfort of any person nearby.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
         (d)   Radios, music devices, paging systems and the like. The
operation of any device referred to in division (U)(1)(f) above between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at
the property line of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a
distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a structure or building
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation or alteration or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each such statement and take
its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applied for or the zoning change requested.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Prevents the full use of residential streets for residential
parking;
      (4)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (5)   Decreases adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and/or
      (6)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage of
ice fishing houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-permanent
structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front yard area
of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front property
line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage of
pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements.
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of non-residential characteristics of
the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional
guests who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any motor vehicles described in this section shall constitute a hazard
to the health and welfare of the residents of the community as these vehicles
can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and breeding place for vermin,
and present physical danger to the safety and well-being of children and
citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids which, if released into
the environment, can and do cause significant health risks to the community.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store or abandon any motor vehicle
which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used for repair of
parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other vehicles, kept
for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of any kind, or which is not properly
licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. § 168B.011, subd. 3, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a building
and/or kept out of view from any street, road or alley, and which does not
foster complaint from a resident of the city. A privacy fence is permissible.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they:
      (1)   Are unsightly;
      (2)   Decrease adjoining landowners and occupants’ enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (3)   Adversely affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents and other similar projections must be
structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of §§
91.22 and
91.23, the Police Department, or Sheriff or person designated by the City
Council under §
10.20, if the city has at the time no Police Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace officer or designated person shall
have the power to inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions
to prevent the commission and maintenance of public nuisances. Except in
emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and safety, no police
officer or designated person shall enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the owner,
resident or other person in control of the property, unless the officer or
person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20.
§ 91.23 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer or designated person determines
that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the
city, the officer or person designated may notify in writing the owner of
record or occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be
taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be
abated. If the notice of violation is not complied with within the time
specified, the officer or designated person shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an administrative search and
seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer or designated person on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act, being M.S. §§ 463.15 et seq., as it may be amended from time to
time), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) above will permit a continuing nuisance to
unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City Council may
order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with summary
enforcement, the officer or designated person shall determine that a public
nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city and that delay
in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health, safety
or welfare. The officer or designated person shall notify in writing the
occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance, whether public
health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement
required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A) above and may
order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is
not immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (E)   Unlawful parties or gatherings. When law enforcement determines that a
gathering is creating a noise disturbance as prohibited under §
91.18(D), the officer may order all persons present, other than the owner or
tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disburse
immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by
law enforcement. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has knowledge of
the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance
is stopped.
   (F)   Judicial remedy. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from
seeking a judicial remedy when no other adequate administrative remedy exists.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city or a person who has caused a public nuisance on a property
not owned by that person shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of
the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk-Treasurer or other official
shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the
amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall, on or before September 1 next following abatement of the
nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as
other charges for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it
may be amended from time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which
the charges are attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges
against the property under that statute and other pertinent statutes for
certification to the County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the
following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the City
Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see §
91.99
WEEDS
§ 91.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance”.
§ 91.36 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or regulation or
county ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
§ 91.37 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated
city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance
violation that shall conform to M.S. § 18.83, subd. 2, as it may be amended
from time to time.
      MEADOW VEGETATION. Grasses and flowering broad-leaf plants that are
native to, or adapted to, the state of Minnesota, and that are commonly found
in meadow and prairie plant communities, except weeds as defined herein.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION. Includes but is not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be
limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild
Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
         (b)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
         (c)   Bushes of the species of tall, common or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (d)   Any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches;
         (e)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants;
         (f)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
         (g)   Any other weed designated by M.S. § 18.77, subd. 8, as it may be
amended from time to time, as noxious.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
§ 91.38 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of 12 inches in height.
   (B)   These provisions shall not apply to an area established with meadow
vegetation if:
      (1)   The prior vegetation is eliminated and the meadow vegetation is
planted through transplanting or seed by human or mechanical means; and
      (2)   A sign is posted on the property in a location likely to be seen by
the public, advising that a meadow or prairie is being established. This sign
must be no smaller than ten inches square, no larger than one square foot, and
no higher than three feet tall.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer. If the city makes the complaint, an
employee, officer or Councilmember of the city shall file the complaint in all
respects as set out above.
§ 91.40 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the City Council shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding the
condition. The City Council, upon concluding that there is a probable belief
that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written notification in
the form of a “destruction order” to the property owner or the person occupying
the property as that information is contained within the records of the City
Clerk-Treasurer or any other city agency. The notice shall be served in writing
by certified mail. The notice shall provide that within seven regular business
days after the receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be
removed by the property owner or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the City Clerk-Treasurer or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 91.41 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City Council. It is
the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Councilmembers in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
§ 91.42 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
“destruction order” within seven regular business days and has not filed a
notice within 48 hours to the City Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the
City Council may employ the services of city employees or outside contractors
and remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
   (B)   No person shall enter the property to abate the nuisance, except with
the permission of the owner, resident or other person in control of the
property or has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 91.43 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney’s
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk-Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.55 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 88, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, permits and
all other matters pertaining to open burning are adopted by reference and are
made a part of this ordinance as if set out in full. It is the intention of the
City Council that all future amendments of M.S. Chapter 88, as they may be
amended from time to time, are adopted by reference as if they had been in
existence at the time this subchapter was adopted.
§ 91.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a RECREATIONAL FIRE, as defined herein. Mobile cooking devices
such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers and propane or
natural gas devices are not defined as OPEN BURNING.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than three
feet in height, contained within the border of a recreational fire site using
dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the
property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for
recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety
hazards will not be created. No more than one RECREATIONAL FIRE is allowed on
any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by
non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only and which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a RECREATION
FIRE SITE as defined herein. RECREATIONAL FIRE SITES shall not be located
closer than 25 feet to any structure or combustible material.
   RUNNING FIRE. An attended fire allowed to spread through surface vegetative
matter under controlled conditions for the purpose of vegetative management,
forest management, game habitat management or agricultural improvement.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as STARTER
FUELS and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   VEGETATIVE MATERIALS. Dry leaves, dry grass clippings, twigs, branches, tree
limbs, untreated or unpainted wood that contains no glues or resins, and other
similar materials. Paper and cardboard are not considered VEGETATIVE MATERIALS.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, manufactured
fireplace logs, charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. WOOD does
not include wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked
or treated with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for
recreational fires when cut into three-foot lengths.
§ 91.57 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of oils,
petroleum fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials or other
materials which produce excessive or noxious smoke such as but not limited to:
tires, railroad ties, treated, painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar
paper, insulation, composition board, sheet rock, wiring, paint or paint
fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of: hazardous
waste or materials from salvage operations; solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process; materials from a service or commercial
establishment; or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of any leaves or
grass clippings.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.58 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burn permit, except that a permit is not
required for any fire which is a recreational fire as defined in § 92.56.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.59 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Elimination of fire or health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means;
      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction;
      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other alternative methods are
not practical;
      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on-site, diseased or infected
nursery stock, diseased bee hives;
      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical; and
      (6)   Running fires.
   (B)   Fire training permits can only issued by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
   (C)   Permits for the operation of permanent tree and brush burning sites
may only be issued by the State Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.60 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a form
prescribed by the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by the Fire
Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshals for reviewing and processing those
applications.
   (B)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee. Permit fees
shall be in the amount established in the ordinance establishing fees and
charges, authorized by §
33.02, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.61 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   If the established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit
are not met, the application will be denied.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and
permit fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshals, if he or
she reasonably believes necessary, may require a preliminary site inspection to
locate the proposed burn site, note special conditions and set dates and time
of permitted burn and review fire safety considerations.
§ 91.62 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be responsible
for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in effect. Every
open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder or his or her
competent representative. The open burning site shall have available,
appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as set out in the fire
safety plan.
   (B)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the permit
holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be allowed to
smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the permit holder
to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter, available for
inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA
representative or DNR forest officer.
   (C)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation of
all general conditions, special conditions and the burn event safety plan as
established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including but not limited to fire
suppression and administrative fees.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.63 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   An open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of DNR
forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshals.
Reasons for revocation include but are not limited to a fire hazard existing or
developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the permit
being violated during the course of the burn, pollution or nuisance conditions
developing during the course of the burn, or a fire smoldering with no flame
present.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.64 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are not
met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire
Marshals, these officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.
§ 91.65 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   (A)   The designated fire official is authorized to determine when
conditions make open burning potentially hazardous and declare a burning ban
within the city.
   (B)   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or
DNR has officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire
conditions or when the MPCA has declared an Air Quality Alert.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.66 EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICES (OUTDOOR WOOD BURNING
STOVES).
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICE. A device designed for external
solid fuel combustion so that usable heat is derived for the interior of a
building, and includes solid fuel-fired stoves, solid fuel-fired cooking stoves
and combination fuel furnaces or boiler which burn solid fuel. SOLID FUEL-FIRED
HEATING DEVICES do not include natural gas-fired fireplace logs or wood-burning
fireplaces or wood stoves in the interior of a dwelling.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, company or other
association.
      STACKS or CHIMNEYS. Any vertical structure incorporated into a building
and enclosing a flue or flues that carry off smoke or exhaust from a solid
fuel-fired heating device, especially, the part of such a structure extending
above a roof.
   (B)   Requirements for operation.
      (1)   Any dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities, or any use of an external solid fuel-fired heating
device to burn solid fuels other than those solid fuels for which the external
solid fuel-fired heating device was designed, is declared a public nuisance.
      (2)   No person may install, use or operate an external solid fuel fired
heating device on a lot less than four acres in size.
      (3)   All stacks or chimneys must be so constructed to withstand high
winds or other related elements and in accordance to the specifications of the
manufacturer of the external solid fuel-fired heating device. The stack height
shall be a minimum of 25 feet above ground level, but shall also extend at
least as high as the height of the roofs of residents within 500 feet. All
stacks or chimneys must be of masonry or insulated metal with a minimum six-
inch flue.
      (4)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of 50 feet from all property lines.
      (5)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of ten feet from any principal or accessory structure.
   (C)   Fuels.
      (1)   Only fuels designed for burning in an external solid fuel-fired
heating device may be burned. No garbage may be burned in an external solid
fuel-fired heating device.
      (2)   The only fuel permitted to be burned is untreated fuel. Wood may
not be treated, processed, stained, finished or painted. Specifically
prohibited woods include plywood, particle board and similar products. Other
fuels, such as corn, shall not contain any additives, treatments or chemicals.
No petroleum products or processed materials of any kind may be burned.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter, including maintaining a
nuisance after being notified in writing by first class mail of a violation of
any provision of this chapter, shall be a misdemeanor and punished as provided
in §
10.99
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §
91.02 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may
be imposed for any crime which is a misdemeanor under this section, including
state statutes specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not
more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a misdemeanor, the costs of prosecution may be
added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this section shall not subject the officer or employee
to the penalty imposed for a violation.
      (4)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this section,
the City Council or any official designated by it, may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
CHAPTER 92: TREES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Permitted street trees
   
92.03   Spacing
   
92.04   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
92.05   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
92.06   Utilities
   
92.07   Public tree care
   
92.08   Tree topping
   
92.09   Pruning, corner clearance
   
92.10   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
92.11   Removal of stumps in the city’s right-of-way
   
92.12   Interference with City Tree Board
   
92.13   Review by City Council
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other wood vegetation located in
public parks having individual names, or located in any area owned by the city
or to which the public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other wood vegetation located on
land lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or
ways within the city.
(Prior Code, § 230.01)
§ 92.02 PERMITTED STREET TREES.
   The City Tree Board, as provided for in §§
31.25 through
31.30, shall maintain an official list of tree species for the city. No species
of tree other than those included on the official list may be planted as street
trees without the prior written permission of the City Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 230.02)
§ 92.03 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees shall be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in the official tree list. Except in the case of special
plantings by or at the discretion of the Tree Board, small trees shall be
spaced in 30-foot intervals, medium trees in 40-foot intervals and large trees
at 60-foot intervals.
(Prior Code, § 230.03)
§ 92.04 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curblines and sidewalks shall be
considered in each project and at the discretion of the Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 230.04)
§ 92.05 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet to any street corner,
measured from the point nearest the intersecting curbs or curblines, nor shall
any street tree be planted closer than a ten-foot radius of any fireplug.
(Prior Code, § 230.05)
§ 92.06 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Small trees. No street trees, other than small maturing trees and
defined in §
92.01, may be planted under any overhead primary electric utility wires.
   (B)   Medium and large trees. No medium or large tree may be planted under
or within ten lateral feet of any primary electric wire.
   (C)   Other. No street tree shall be planted within three lateral feet of
any underground water lines, primary electrical distribution lines or
transmission lines, gas lines or six to ten lateral feet from sewer lines.
(Prior Code, § 230.06) (Ord. passed 8-9-1999)
§ 92.07 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall have the right, but shall not be obligated, to plant, prune,
maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to
ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of these
public grounds. The City Tree Board may remove or cause to be removed any tree
or part of any tree which is in an unsafe condition, or which by reason of its
nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or
other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or
other pest. Removal of any tree from the boulevard, for any other than the
previous listed reasons, will become the responsibility of the adjacent
property owner upon prior approval from the City Council. This section shall
not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners; provided
that the section and location of these trees are in accordance with this
section.
(Prior Code, § 230.07) (Res. 00-14, passed 11-13-2000)
§ 92.08 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any street tree or park tree, or any other tree on public
property. TOPPING shall mean the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger
than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted
from this section at the determination of the Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 230.08) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune branches so that the branches shall not obstruct the light
from any street lamp, or obstruct the view of any street intersection, and so
that there shall be a clear space of no less than 13 feet above the surface of
the street and of no less than eight feet above the surface of any sidewalk.
Such owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, and all broken
or decayed limbs that constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The city
shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property if the tree
or shrub interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a
street light, or that interferes with the visibility of any traffic control
device or sign.
(Prior Code, § 230.09)
§ 92.10 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased tree on private property within the city if the tree constitutes a
hazard to life, safety or property, or if the tree harbors insects or disease
which constitute a potential threat to other trees within the city.
   (B)   The City Tree Board shall notify in writing the owner(s) of any such
tree.
   (C)   Removal of the tree shall be done by the owner(s) at the owner’s
expense within 60 days after the date of service of the notice.
   (D)   In the event of failure of the owner(s) to comply with the provisions
of the notice, the city shall have the authority to remove or have removed the
tree and to charge the cost of removal on the owner’s property tax notice.
(Prior Code, § 230.10)
§ 92.11 REMOVAL OF STUMPS IN THE CITY’S RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground. Tree stump removal shall be the responsibility of the city.
Individuals removing tree stumps shall need city approval.
(Prior Code, § 230.11)
§ 92.12 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street
tree, park tree or trees on private property subject to the regulations of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 230.12) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.13 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal form any ruling or
order of the Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and make a
final decision.
(Prior Code, § 230.13)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction or
a plea of guilty, be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 230.14)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   CANNABIS BUSINESSES
      
112.   SPECIALIZED SALES AND SERVICES
      
113.   RENTAL PROPERTIES
      
114.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions of License
   
110.01   After hours consumption
   
110.02   Removal of containers
   
110.03   Remaining on premises
   
110.04   City parks
   
110.05   Public places
   
110.06   Insurance
   
110.07   Sales to minors or obviously intoxicated persons
   
110.08   Consumption by minors
   
110.09   Employment of minors
   
110.10   Purchasing and possession
   
110.11   Entering licensed premises
   
110.12   Misrepresentation of age
   
110.13   Proof of age
   
110.14   Gambling
   
110.15   Interest of manufacturers or wholesalers
   
110.16   Display; consumption
   
110.17   Searches and seizures
   
110.18   Licensee’s responsibility
3.2% Malt Liquor
   
110.30   Definitions
   
110.31   License required
   
110.32   Application for license
   
110.33   Fees
   
110.34   Granting of licenses
   
110.35   Conditions of licenses
   
110.36   Hours
   
110.37   Clubs
   
110.38   No bar, partition, box or screen permitted
   
110.39   Suspension and revocation
Intoxicating Liquor
   
110.50   Definitions
   
110.51   License required
   
110.52   Types of licenses and application
   
110.53   Term
   
110.54   Consolidation
   
110.55   Transfer
   
110.56   Hours of sale
   
110.57   Conditions
   
110.58   Renewal
   
110.59   Suspension and revocation
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS OF LICENSE
§ 110.01 AFTER HOURS CONSUMPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume, or any licensee to permit
consumption of, beer, wine or liquor on licensed premises after 1:15 a.m. or 15
minutes after the hour when a sale can legally be made.
(Prior Code, § 420.01) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 REMOVAL OF CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any on-sale licensee to permit any glass, bottle or
other container, containing beer, wine or liquor in any quantity, to remain
upon any table, bar, stool or other place where customers are served after 1:15
a.m. or 15 minutes after the hour when a sale thereof can legally be made.
(Prior Code, § 420.02) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 REMAINING ON PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an on-sale licensee’s bona
fide employee actually engaged in the performance of his or her duties, to be
on premises licensed under this chapter after 1:15 a.m. or 15 minutes after the
legal time for making licensed sales. Provided, however, that this section
shall not apply to licensees, employees of licensees and patrons on licensed
premises for the sole purpose of preparing, serving or consuming food or
beverages other than beer, wine or liquor.
(Prior Code, § 420.03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 CITY PARKS.
   (A)   Quantity. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her
possession in any city park any container larger than 32 ounces containing
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor without a permit from the police.
      (2)   Application for a permit shall be made at least one day before the
permitted use is scheduled. An application fee of zero dollars shall accompany
the application along with a deposit of $50. The surety deposit shall be
returned upon completion of the scheduled use unless, in the opinion of the
city, the event shall have caused additional maintenance or damage, then the
city may deduct the additional maintenance or damages from the surety deposit.
   (B)   Glass. It shall be unlawful for a person to have in his or her
possession in any city park any glass container containing intoxicating liquor
or 3.2% malt liquor, or any other beverage.
   (C)   St. Olaf Park. It shall be unlawful for a person to have in his or her
possession at St. Olaf Lake Park any glass or can container containing
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor or any other beverage in the swimming
area.
(Prior Code, § 420.04) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall mix or prepare alcoholic beverages or consume alcoholic
beverages or possess the same in an opened container in any public place,
street or sidewalk, within the city, without permission of the City Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 420.05) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 INSURANCE.
   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and of
this chapter is a continuing condition of any license granted pursuant to this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 420.06)
§ 110.07 SALES TO MINORS OR OBVIOUSLY INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   No alcoholic beverage shall be sold or served to any obviously intoxicated
person or to any person under 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 420.07) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 CONSUMPTION BY MINORS.
   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted to consume alcoholic
beverages on the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 420.08) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS.
   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed on the licensed
premises, except as may be permitted by state law.
(Prior Code, § 420.09) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 PURCHASING AND POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   Under the age of 21 years to purchase or attempt to purchase alcoholic
beverages;
   (B)   To induce a person under the age of 21 years to purchase or procure
alcoholic beverages;
   (C)   To purchase alcoholic beverages for a person under the age of 21; and
   (D)   Under the age of 21 years to possess alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 420.10) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 ENTERING LICENSED PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for a person under the age of 21 years to enter an
establishment licensed under this chapter in order to purchase or have served
or delivered, any alcoholic beverage.
(Prior Code, § 420.11) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   It is unlawful for a person under the age of 21 years to misrepresent his or
her age for the purpose of purchasing alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 420.12) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 PROOF OF AGE.
   Proof of age for purchasing or consuming alcoholic beverages may be
established only by a valid driver’s license or state identification card, or
in the case of a foreign national, by a valid passport.
(Prior Code, § 420.13)
§ 110.14 GAMBLING.
   No illegal gambling or illegal gambling device shall be permitted on any
licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 420.14) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.15 INTEREST OF MANUFACTURERS OR WHOLESALERS.
   No manufacturer or wholesaler of alcoholic beverages shall have any
ownership of, or interest in, an establishment licensed to sell at retail
contrary to the provisions of M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 7, as it may be amended
from time to time. No retail licensee and manufacturer or wholesaler of
alcoholic beverages shall be parties to any exclusive purchase contract. No
retail licensee shall receive any benefits contrary to law from a manufacturer
or wholesaler of alcoholic beverages and no such manufacturer or wholesaler
shall confer any benefits contrary to law upon a retail licensee.
(Prior Code, § 420.15) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 DISPLAY; CONSUMPTION.
   No licensee who does not hold a consumption and display permit shall sell or
permit the consumption or display of intoxicating liquors on the licensed
premises or serve any liquids for the purpose of mixing with intoxicating
liquor. The presence of intoxicating liquors on the premises of such a licensee
shall be prima facie evidence of possession of intoxicating liquors for the
purpose of sale; and the serving of any liquid for the purpose of mixing with
intoxicating liquors shall be prima facie evidence that intoxicating liquor is
being permitted to be consumed or displayed contrary to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 420.16) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 SEARCHES AND SEIZURES.
   Any peace officer may enter, inspect and search the premises of a licensee
during business hours without a search and seizure warrant and may seize all
alcoholic beverages found on the licensed premises in violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 420.17)
§ 110.18 LICENSEE’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct in the licensed establishment
and any sale of alcoholic beverages by any employee authorized to sell these
beverages is the act of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 420.18)
3.2% MALT LIQUOR
§ 110.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   3.2% MALT LIQUOR. Any potable malt beverage with an alcoholic content of
more than one-half of one percent by volume and not more than three and two-
thirds percent by weight.
   BONA FIDE CLUB. Any club organized for social or business purposes, or for
intellectual improvement, or for the promotion of sports, where the serving of
such liquors is incidental to and not the major purpose of the club.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. The sealed container in which the liquor is placed at the
place of manufacture.
   PERSON. Includes a natural person of either sex, persons, co-partnerships,
corporations and associations of persons; and shall include the agent or
manager of any of the above. The singular number shall include the plural, and
the masculine pronoun shall include the feminine and neuter, and vice-versa.
   RESTAURANT. Any place where preparing and serving lunches or meals to the
public to be consumed on the premises constitutes a substantial part of the
business thereof.
(Prior Code, § 400.01)
§ 110.31 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, vend, deal in or dispose of, by gift, sale or
otherwise, or keep or offer for sale, any 3.2% malt liquor within the city
without first having received a license therefor as provided in this section.
   (B)   Licenses shall be of two kinds: “on-sale” and “off-sale”.
      (1)   On-sale. On-sale licenses shall be granted only to drug stores,
cafés, restaurants and hotels where food is prepared and serve for consumption
on the premises and in bona fide clubs, and shall permit the sale of such
liquor for consumption on the premises only.
      (2)   Off-sale. Off-sale licenses shall be granted to permit the sale at
retail of the liquor in the original packages for removal from and consumption
off the premises only.
      (3)   Temporary on-sale 3.2% malt liquor. Temporary on-sale 3.2% malt
liquor licences shall be granted only to bona fide clubs, charitable and other
non-profit organizations for sale of 3.2% malt liquors for consumption on the
premises designated. These licenses are subject to the terms prescribed by the
City Council at the time of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 400.02)
§ 110.32 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   All applications for any license to sell 3.2% malt liquor shall be made on
forms to be supplied by the city setting forth the name of the person asking
for the license, his or her age, representations as to his or her character
with any references as may be required, his or her citizenship, the location
where the business is to be carried on, whether the application is for on-sale
or off-sale, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate, whether the applicant is the owner and operator of the business, the
time the applicant has been in that business at that place, and any other
information as the City Council may require from time to time. It shall be
unlawful to make any false statement in an application.
(Prior Code, § 400.03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.33 FEES.
   All applications for a license under this section shall be accompanied by
the required annual fee for the respective license. All fees shall be paid into
the General Fund of the municipality. Upon rejection of any application for a
license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall refund the amount paid.
   (A)   On-sale. The annual fee for an on-sale license shall be $25.
   (B)   Off-sale. The city may issue off-sale liquor licenses. The annual fee
for the license shall be $200.
   (C)   Pro-rata. All licenses shall expire on June 30 each year; provided
that if eight months of any licensing year have elapsed when the application is
made, the fee shall be reduced to one-half of the regular amount thereof.
   (D)   Wine licenses. The City Council may issue an on-sale wine license with
the approval of the Commissioner to a restaurant having facilities for seating
at least 25 guests at one time or to a licensed bed and breakfast facility
serving only to registered guests of the facility or to guests attending a
private event at the facility and if the facility contains a licensed
commercial kitchen. A wine license permits the sale of wine of up to 14%
alcohol by volume for consumption with the sale of food. A wine license
authorizes the sale of wine on all days authorized for intoxicating liquor
including Sundays. The City Council may by ordinance authorize a holder of an
on-sale wine license who is also licensed to sell 3.2% malt liquors at on-sale
and whose gross receipts are at least 60% attributable to the sale of food, to
sell intoxicating malt liquors at on-sale without an additional license. The
annual fee for this license shall be $350.
(Prior Code, § 400.04) (Res. 10-13, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 110.34 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   The City Council shall cause an investigation to be made of all facts set
forth in the application. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard
for or against the granting of any license. After the investigation, the City
Council shall grant or refuse any application at its discretion. All licensed
premises shall have the license therefor posted in a conspicuous place at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 400.05)
§ 110.35 CONDITIONS OF LICENSES.
   All licenses granted under this section shall be granted subject to the
following conditions, and all other conditions of this chapter, and subject to
all other provisions of the city code applicable thereto.
   (A)   No license shall be granted to any person under 21 years of age.
   (B)   No license shall be granted to any person who has been convicted
within the five years immediately preceding the date of the application of a
felony or of violating any law of this state or local ordinance relating to
manufacture or transportation of intoxicating liquors.
   (C)   No license shall give permission to sell 3.2% malt liquor to any
theater, public recreation hall or center, dance hall, ball park or other place
of public gathering for the purpose of entertainment, amusement or playing of
games, and no such liquor shall be consumed there.
   (D)   No license shall be granted for sale on any premises where a licensee
has been convicted of the violation of this code or where any license hereunder
has been revoked for cause for at least one year after the conviction or
revocation of license.
   (E)   No sale of any 3.2% malt liquor shall be made to any person under
guardianship, nor to any person under 21 years of age.
   (F)   All premises where any license shall be granted under this subchapter
shall be open to inspection by any police or health officer or other properly
designated officer or employee of the city at any time during which the place
so licensed is open to the public for business.
   (G)   No gambling, nor any gambling device prohibited by law, shall be
permitted in any licensed premises.
   (H)   All licenses granted under this section shall be issued to the
applicant only and shall be issued for the premises described in the
application. The license shall not be transferred to another place without the
approval of the City Council.
   (I)   No license shall be granted to any manufacturer of 3.2% malt liquor
nor to anyone interested in the control of any such place, and no equipment or
fixtures in any licensed place shall be owned in whole or in part by any such
manufacturer.
   (J)   No license shall be granted within 250 feet of any public school nor
within 250 feet of any church.
   (K)   Licenses shall be granted only to persons who are citizens of the
United States and residents of the city and to persons of good moral character.
   (L)   No spiking or adulteration by the addition or use of alcohol or other
intoxicating liquor shall be allowed on the premises. The licensee shall be
held responsible for the compliance with this provision.
(Prior Code, § 400.06) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.36 HOURS.
   No 3.2% malt liquors shall be sold in the city between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00
a.m. on the days of Monday through Saturday, nor between 1:00 a.m. and 10:00
a.m. on Sunday.
(Prior Code, § 400.07) (Ord. 08-03, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.37 CLUBS.
   No club shall sell liquor except to members and to guests in the company of
members.
(Prior Code, § 400.08) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.38 NO BAR, PARTITION, BOX OR SCREEN PERMITTED.
   In any place licensed for on-sales, the liquor sold shall be served and
consumed at tables in the dining or refreshment room of the café, restaurant,
hotel or club, and shall not be consumed or served at bars; provided the liquor
may be served at counters where food is regularly served consumed. All windows
in the front of any such place shall be of clear glass, and the view of the
whole interior shall be unobstructed by screens, curtains or partitions. There
shall be no partition, box, stall, screen, curtain or other device which shall
obstruct the view of any part of the room from the general observation of
persons in the room; provided, however, that partitions, subdivisions or panels
not higher than 48 inches from the floor shall not be construed in conflict
with the foregoing; and provided, however, the license shall entitle the holder
thereof to serve 3.2% malt liquors in a separate room of the restaurant to
banquets or dinners at which are present not less than ten persons.
(Prior Code, § 400.09) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.39 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for up to 60 days or revoke any
liquor license or impose a civil fine not to exceed $2,000, for each violation
upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, regulation or ordinance relating to alcoholic beverages. Except in
cases of failure of financial responsibility, no suspension or revocation shall
take effect until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing
pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69 of the Administrative Procedure Act, as they
may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Lapse of required dram shop insurance or bond, or withdrawal of a
required deposit of cash or securities, shall effect an immediate suspension of
any license issued pursuant to this section without further action of the
Council. Notice of cancellation, lapse of a current liquor liability policy or
bond, or withdrawal of deposited cash or securities shall also constitute
notice to the licensee of the impending suspension of the license. The holder
of a license who has received notice of lapse of required insurance or bond, or
withdrawal of a required deposit, or of suspension or revocation of a license,
may request a hearing. If a request is made in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer a
hearing shall be granted within ten days or such longer period as may be
requested. Any suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the
Council determines that the financial responsibility requirements of this
section have again been met.
(Prior Code, § 400.10)
INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 110.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person making an application for a license under this
section.
   APPLICATION. A form with blanks or spaces thereon to be filled in and
completed by the applicant as his or her request for a license, furnished by
the city and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration of the
issuance of a license for a business.
   INTOXICATION LIQUOR and LIQUOR. Ethyl alcohol and distilled, fermented,
spirituous, vinous and malt beverages containing in excess of 3.2% of alcohol
by weight.
   LICENSE. A document, issued by the city, to an applicant permitting him or
her to carry on and transact the business stated in the license.
   LICENSE FEE. The money paid to the city pursuant to an application and prior
to issuance of a license to transact and carry on the business stated in the
license.
   LICENSEE. An applicant, who, pursuant to his or her approved application,
holds a valid, current, unexpired license, which has neither been revoked nor
suspended, from the city for carrying on the business stated therein.
   OFF-SALE. The retail sale of beer or liquor in original packages for
consumption off or away from the premises where sold.
   ON-SALE. The retail sale of beer, wine or liquor, by the glass or by the
drink, for consumption on the premises where sold only.
   SALE, SELL and SOLD. All barters and all manners or means of furnishing
beer, wine or liquor to persons.
(Prior Code, § 410.01)
§ 110.51 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No sale of intoxicating liquor shall be permitted unless the seller, or its
duly authorized agent, shall have issued and on display, a license therefore
issued by the city and in current force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 410.02) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.52 TYPES OF LICENSES AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   No license shall be issued by the city until or after the applicant
has applied for the license on forms acceptable to the city and the state, and
shall have paid the required fee. The City Council in its sole discretion may
reduce the fee for a part of any one year.
   (B)   There shall be four types of intoxicating liquor licenses which may be
issued by the city.
      (1)   On-sale. The city may issue up to the number of on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses authorized by state law. The annual fee for this
license shall be $1,250.
      (2)   Club on-sale. The city may issue up to the number of club on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses authorized by state law. The annual fee for this
license shall be $100.
      (3)   Off-sale. The city may issue off-sale liquor licenses. The annual
fee for this license shall be $100.
      (4)   Sunday liquor licenses. 
         (a)   The City Council may issue Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor
licenses, only to a restaurant, club, bowling center or hotel which has a
seating capacity of at least 30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license, and which serves liquor in conjunction with the service of food
between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on Sundays and 1:00 a.m. on Mondays.
         (b)   The annual fee for this license shall be established by th city
fee schedule, and the term of the license shall be concurrent with the term of
the on-sale intoxicating liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 410.03) (Res. 00-15, passed 11-27-2000; Ord. 08-03, passed 9-22-
2008)
§ 110.53 TERM.
   Any license issued under this section shall be for a period of 12 months and
shall be from July 1 to June 30 of every year.
(Prior Code, § 410.04)
§ 110.54 CONSOLIDATION.
   Any on-sale operation duly licensed by the city may be consolidated and
combined with an off-sale operation by a same license holder and on the same
premises if separately maintained.
(Prior Code, § 410.05)
§ 110.55 TRANSFER.
   (A)   No license shall be transferrable between persons or to a different
location without prior consent of the City Council and the filing of an initial
application.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to make any transfer in violation of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 410.06) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.56 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   On-sale. No sale of intoxicating liquor for consumption on the
licensed premises may be made:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through
Saturday;
      (2)   After 1:00 a.m. on Sundays, except as provided in §
110.52(B)(4); and
      (3)   Between 8:00 p.m. on December 24 and 8:00 a.m. on December 25.
   (B)   Off-sale. No sale of intoxicating liquor may be made by an off-sale
licensee:
      (1)   Before 11:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m. on Sundays;
      (2)   Before 8:00 a.m. on Monday through Saturday;
      (3)   After 10:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday;
      (4)   On Thanksgiving Day;
      (5)   On Christmas Day, December 25; or
      (6)   After 8:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve, December 24.
   (C)   Clubs. No establishment licensed under M.S. § 340A.414, as it may be
amended from time to time, bottle clubs, may permit a person to consume or
display intoxicating liquor, and no person may consume or display intoxicating
liquor between 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays, and between 1:00 a.m. and
8:00 a.m. on Monday through Saturday.
(Prior Code, § 410.07) (Ord. 08-03, passed 9-22-2008; Ord. 17-01, passed 3-13-
2017)
§ 110.57 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Eligibility. No person shall qualify for a license under this
subchapter who has been convicted within the past five years of violating any
law relating to the manufacture, sale or distribution of beer, liquor or wine,
or whose license therefor has been revoked within this period of time. Nor
shall any person qualify as a licensee who has not attained the age of 21 years
or who is not a citizen or legal alien of the United States. No license under
this subchapter shall be granted for operation on any premises upon which
taxes, assessments or installments thereof, or other financial claims of the
city, are owed by the applicant and are delinquent and unpaid.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. No liquor license may be issued, maintained
or renewed unless the applicant demonstrates proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under the statutes, M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended
from time to time. This proof shall be filed with the Department of Public
Safety. Applicants for liquor licenses to whom the requirement for proof of
financial responsibility applies include applicants for wine licenses with
sales of less than $10,000 of wine per year. Any liability insurance policy
filed as proof of financial responsibility under this division (B) shall
conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time. The
security offered shall be approved by the Council and shall be approved as to
form by the City Attorney. Operation of a licensed business without having on
file with the city at all times effective security as required in this
subchapter shall be cause for revocation of the license.
   (C)   Preliminary investigation. On an initial application for an on-sale
license and on application for transfer of an existing on-sale license, the
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee as set forth in
this subchapter and the city shall conduct a preliminary background and
financial investigation of the applicant. The application, in this case, shall
be made on a form prescribed by the State Bureau of Criminal Apprehension and
with such additional information as the Council may require. The Council may
require, if it is in the public interest, to have an investigation made on a
particular application for renewal of an on-sale license. In any case, if the
Council determines that a comprehensive background and financial investigation
of the applicant is necessary, it may conduct the investigation itself or
contract with the Bureau of Criminal Investigation for the investigation. No
license shall be issued, transferred or renewed if the results show, to the
satisfaction of the Council, that issuance would not be in the public interest.
If an investigation outside the state is required, the applicant shall be
charged the cost, not to exceed $10,000, which shall be paid by the applicant
after deducting any initial investigation fee already paid. The fee shall be
payable by the applicant whether or not the license is granted.
   (D)   Hearing and issuance. The Council shall investigate all facts set out
in the application and not investigated in the preliminary background and
financial investigation conducted pursuant to division (C) above. Opportunity
shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the granting of the
license. After the investigation and hearing, the Council shall, in its
discretion, grant or refuse the application. No on-sale wine license or off-
sale license shall become effective until it, together with the security
furnished by the applicant, has been approved by the Department of Public
Safety.
(Prior Code, § 410.08)
§ 110.58 RENEWAL.
   Applications for a renewal of all licenses under this subchapter shall be
made at least 60 days prior to the date of expiration of the license, and shall
contain any information as shall be required by the city.
(Prior Code, § 410.09)
§ 110.59 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The city may, at its sole and exclusive option, suspend or revoke this
license at any time after a hearing conducted by the City Council concerning
any license violations; liquor sales violations or other criminal violations
reflecting adversely on the license holder. The hearing shall be called by the
Mayor upon written notice to the licensee served in person or by certified mail
not less than ten days prior to the hearing date stating the time, place and
purpose thereof.
(Prior Code, § 410.10)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and shall be
grounds for the suspension or revocation of any license issued under this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 430.01)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
110.30 through
110.39 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $700, or shall be imprisoned for not to
exceed 90 days or both, plus the costs of prosecution in any case.
(Prior Code, § 400.11)
CHAPTER 111: CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Section
   
111.01   State law adopted
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Licensed required
   
111.04   Application for license
   
111.05   Restrictions on business and signs
   
111.06   License fees
   
111.07   Local registration required
   
111.08   Caps on licenses
   
111.09   Compliance checks
   
111.10   Registration suspension and cancellation; notice to Office of Cannabis
Management
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   M.S. Chapter 342, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be, and is,
incorporated into this chapter by reference.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, all of the definitions contained in M.S. §
342.01, as it may be amended from time to time, are incorporated by reference
herein. The following terms shall have the meanings given them, unless
inconsistent with M.S. § 342.01, as it may be amended from time to time, in
which case, those definitions in M.S. § 342.01, as they are amended from time
to time, shall control.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CONCENTRATE. Cannabis concentrate that is approved for
sale by the office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the
office. ADULT-USE CANNABIS CONCENTRATE does not include any artificially
derived cannabinoid.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS FLOWER. Cannabis flower that is approved for sale by the
office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the office. ADULT-
USE CANNABIS FLOWER does not include medical cannabis flower, hemp plant parts
or hemp-derived consumer products.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCT. A cannabis product that is approved for sale by
the office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the office.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCT includes edible cannabis products but does not
include medical cannabinoid products or lower-potency hemp edibles.
   ADVERTISEMENT. Any written or oral statement, illustration or depiction that
is intended to promote sales of cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer products or sales at a specific
cannabis business or hemp business and includes any newspaper, radio, Internet
and electronic media, or television promotion; the distribution of fliers and
circulars; and the display of window and interior signs in a cannabis business.
ADVERTISEMENT does not include a fixed outdoor sign that meets the requirements
in M.S. § 342.64, subd. 2, paragraph (b), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   ARTIFICIALLY DERIVED CANNABINOID. A cannabinoid extracted from a cannabis
plant, cannabis flower, hemp plant or hemp plant parts with a chemical makeup
that is changed after extraction to create a different cannabinoid or other
chemical compound by applying a catalyst other than heat or light. ARTIFICIALLY
DERIVED CANNABINOID includes but is not limited to any tetrahydrocannabinol
created from cannabidiol but does not include cannabis concentrate, cannabis
products, hemp concentrate, lower-potency hemp edibles or hemp-derived consumer
products.
   CANNABINOID. Any of the chemical constituents of hemp plants or cannabis
plants that are naturally occurring, biologically active and act on the
cannabinoid receptors of the brain. CANNABINOID includes but is not limited to
tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol.
   CANNABINOID EXTRACTION. The process of extracting cannabis concentrate from
cannabis plants or cannabis flower using heat, pressure, water, lipids, gases,
solvents or other chemicals or chemical processes, but does not include the
process of extracting concentrate from hemp plants or hemp plant parts or the
process of creating any artificially derived cannabinoid.
   CANNABINOID PRODUCT. A cannabis product, a hemp-derived consumer product or
a lower-potency hemp edible.
   CANNABINOID PROFILE. The amounts of each cannabinoid that the office
requires to be identified in testing and labeling, including but not limited to
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, tetrahydrocannabinolic acid, cannabidiol and
cannabidiolic acid in cannabis flower, a cannabis product, a batch of
artificially derived cannabinoid, a lower-potency hemp edible, a hemp-derived
consumer product or a hemp-derived topical product expressed as percentages
measured by weight and, in the case of cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles and hemp-derived consumer products, expressed as milligrams in each
serving and package.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Cannabis microbusiness;
      (2)   Cannabis mezzobusiness;
      (3)   Cannabis cultivator;
      (4)   Cannabis manufacturer;
      (5)   Cannabis retailer;
      (6)   Cannabis wholesaler;
      (7)   Cannabis transporter;
      (8)   Cannabis testing facility;
      (9)   Cannabis event organizer;
      (10)   Cannabis delivery service;
      (11)   Medical cannabis cultivator;
      (12)   Medical cannabis processor;
      (13)   Medical cannabis retailer; and
      (14)   Medical cannabis combination business.
   CANNABIS CONCENTRATE.
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   The extracts and resins of a cannabis plant or cannabis flower;
         (b)   The extracts or resins of a cannabis plant or cannabis flower
that are refined to increase the presence of targeted cannabinoids; or
         (c)   A product that is produced by refining extracts or resins of a
cannabis plant or cannabis flower and is intended to be consumed by combustion
or vaporization of the product and inhalation of smoke, aerosol or vapor from
the product.
      (2)   CANNABIS CONCENTRATE does not include hemp concentrate,
artificially derived cannabinoid or hemp-derived consumer products.
   CANNABIS FLOWER. The harvested flower, bud, leaves and stems of a cannabis
plant. CANNABIS FLOWER includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical cannabis
flower. CANNABIS FLOWER does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant parts or
hemp-derived consumer products.
   CANNABIS INDUSTRY. Every item, product, person, process, action, business or
other thing related to cannabis flower and cannabis products and subject to
regulation under this chapter.
   CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind
that are knowingly or intentionally used primarily in:
      (1)   Manufacturing cannabis products;
      (2)   Ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing cannabis flower or
cannabis products into the human body; and
      (3)   Testing the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles or hemp-derived consumer
products.
   CANNABIS PLANT. All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is growing
or has not been harvested and has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration
of more than 0.3% on a dry weight basis.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT.
      (1)   Includes any of the following:
         (a)   Cannabis concentrate;
         (b)   A product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited
to tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
flower; or
         (c)   Any other product that contains cannabis concentrate.
      (2)   CANNABIS PRODUCT includes adult-use cannabis products, including
but not limited to edible cannabis products and medical cannabinoid products.
CANNABIS PRODUCT does not include cannabis flower, artificially derived
cannabinoid, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer products or
hemp-derived topical products.
   CANNABIS SEED. The viable seed of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is
reasonably expected to grow into a cannabis plant. CANNABIS SEED does not
include hemp seed.
   CULTIVATION. Any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting,
drying, curing, grading or trimming of cannabis plants, cannabis flower, hemp
plants or hemp plant parts.
   EDIBLE CANNABIS PRODUCT. Any product that is intended to be eaten or
consumed as a beverage by humans; contains a cannabinoid other than an
artificially derived cannabinoid in combination with food ingredients; is not a
drug; and is a type of product approved for sale by the office, or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the office including but not
limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy and baked
goods. EDIBLE CANNABIS PRODUCT does not include lower-potency hemp edibles.
   HEMP BUSINESS.
      (1)   Either of the following licensed under this chapter:
         (a)   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturer; or
         (b)   Lower-potency hemp edible retailer.
      (2)   HEMP BUSINESS does not include a person or entity licensed under
M.S. Chapter 18K, as it may be amended from time to time, to grow industrial
hemp for commercial or research purposes or to process industrial hemp for
commercial purposes.
   HEMP CONCENTRATE.
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   The extracts and resins of a hemp plant or hemp plant parts;
         (b)   The extracts or resins of a hemp plant or hemp plant parts that
are refined to increase the presence of targeted cannabinoids; or
         (c)   A product that is produced by refining extracts or resins of a
hemp plant or hemp plant parts and is intended to be consumed by combustion or
vaporization of the product and inhalation of smoke, aerosol or vapor from the
product.
      (2)   HEMP CONCENTRATE does not include artificially derived
cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer products or
hemp-derived topical products.
   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCT.
      (1)   A product intended for human or animal consumption, does not
contain cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate and:
         (a)   Contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or
         (b)   Contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived cannabinoids
in combination with other ingredients.
      (2)   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCT does not include artificially derived
cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical products, hemp
fiber products or hemp grain.
   HEMP-DERIVED TOPICAL PRODUCT. A product intended for human or animal
consumption that contains hemp concentrate, is intended for application
externally to a part of the body of a human or animal and does not contain
cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate.
   HEMP FIBER PRODUCT. An intermediate or finished product made from the fiber
of hemp plant parts that is not intended for human or animal consumption. HEMP
FIBER PRODUCT includes but is not limited to cordage, paper, fuel, textiles,
bedding, insulation, construction materials, compost materials and industrial
materials.
   HEMP PLANT. All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is growing or
has not been harvested and has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of
no more than 0.3% on a dry weight basis.
   HEMP PLANT PARTS. Any part of the harvested hemp plant, including the
flower, bud, leaves, stems and stalk, but does not include derivatives,
extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts and salts of isomers that are
separated from the plant. HEMP PLANT PARTS does not include hemp fiber
products, hemp grain or hemp seed.
   HEMP SEED. The viable seed of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is
intended to be planted and is reasonably expected to grow into a hemp plant.
HEMP SEED does not include cannabis seed or hemp grain.
   INTOXICATING CANNABINOID. A cannabinoid, including an artificially derived
cannabinoid, that when introduced into the human body impairs the central
nervous system or impairs the human audio, visual or mental processes.
INTOXICATING CANNABINOID includes but is not limited to any
tetrahydrocannabinol.
   LICENSE HOLDER. A person, cooperative or business that holds any of the
following licenses:
      (1)   Cannabis microbusiness;
      (2)   Cannabis mezzobusiness;
      (3)   Cannabis cultivator;
      (4)   Cannabis manufacturer;
      (5)   Cannabis retailer;
      (6)   Cannabis wholesaler;
      (7)   Cannabis transporter;
      (8)   Cannabis testing facility;
      (9)   Cannabis event organizer;
      (10)   Cannabis delivery service;
      (11)   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturer;
      (12)   Lower-potency hemp edible retailer;
      (13)   Medical cannabis cultivator;
      (14)   Medical cannabis processor;
      (15)   Medical cannabis retailer; or
      (16)   Medical cannabis combination business.
   LOCAL UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. The City of New Richland.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. Any product that:
      (1)   Is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
      (2)   Contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived cannabinoid,
in combination with food ingredients;
      (3)   Is not a drug;
      (4)   Consists of servings that contain no more than five milligrams of
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabidiol, 25 milligrams of
cannabigerol or any combination of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the
identified amounts;
      (5)   Does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5 milligrams of
all other cannabinoids per serving;
      (6)   Does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
      (7)   Does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or
cannabis flower; and
      (8)   Is a type of product approved for sale by the office or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the office, including but not
limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy and baked
goods.
   MEDICAL CANNABINOID PRODUCT.
      (1)   A product that:
         (a)   Consists of or contains cannabis concentrate or hemp concentrate
or is infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited to artificially
derived cannabinoids; and
         (b)   Is provided to a patient enrolled in the registry program; a
registered designated caregiver; or a parent, legal guardian or spouse of an
enrolled patient, by a cannabis retailer or medical cannabis retailer to treat
or alleviate the symptoms of a qualifying medical condition.
      (2)   A MEDICAL CANNABINOID PRODUCT must be in the form of:
         (a)   Liquid, including but not limited to oil;
         (b)   Pill;
         (c)   Liquid or oil for use with a vaporized delivery method;
         (d)   Water-soluble cannabinoid multiparticulate, including granules,
powder and sprinkles;
         (e)   Orally dissolvable product, including lozenges, gum, mints,
buccal tablets and sublingual tablets;
         (f)   Edible products in the form of gummies and chews;
         (g)   Topical formulation; or
         (h)   Any allowable form or delivery method approved by the office.
      (3)   MEDICAL CANNABINOID PRODUCT does not include adult-use cannabis
products or hemp-derived consumer products.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS BUSINESS. An entity licensed under this chapter to engage
in one or more of the following:
      (1)   The cultivation of cannabis plants for medical cannabis flower;
      (2)   The manufacture of medical cannabinoid products; and
      (3)   The retail sale of medical cannabis flower and medical cannabinoid
products.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS FLOWER. Cannabis flower provided to a patient enrolled in
the registry program; a registered designated caregiver; or a parent, legal
guardian or spouse of an enrolled patient by a cannabis retailer or medical
cannabis business to treat or alleviate the symptoms of a qualifying medical
condition. MEDICAL CANNABIS FLOWER does not include adult-use cannabis flower.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. A delivery device, related supply or
educational material used by a patient enrolled in the registry program to
administer medical cannabis and medical cannabinoid products.
   OFFICE. The Office of Cannabis Management.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISEMENT. An advertisement that is located outdoors or can be
seen or heard by an individual who is outdoors and includes billboards;
advertisements on benches; advertisements at transit stations or transit
shelters; advertisements on the exterior or interior of buses, taxis, light
rail transit or business vehicles; and print signs that do not meet the
requirements in M.S. § 342.64, subd. 2, paragraph (b), as it may be amended
from time to time, but that are placed or located on the exterior property of a
cannabis business.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID. A substance with a similar chemical structure and
pharmacological activity to a cannabinoid but is not extracted or derived from
cannabis plants, cannabis flower, hemp plants or hemp plant parts and is
instead created or produced by chemical or biochemical synthesis.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 111.03 LICENSED REQUIRED.
   No retail sale, manufacture for retail sale or cultivation for retail sale,
of a cannabinoid product, hemp product or low-potency hemp product shall occur
unless the seller, person, cooperative or business first holds, and has at the
time of the sale the applicable licenses required by law from the Office of
Cannabis Management.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Every application for a license to engage in retail sale, manufacture for
retail sale, or cultivation for retail sale of any cannabinoid products, hemp
products or low-potency hemp products, must be made to the Office of Cannabis
Management on forms supplied by that Office.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 111.05 RESTRICTIONS ON BUSINESS AND SIGNS.
   (A)   Cannabis businesses, and any related outdoor advertisement, shall not
operate or be placed within 1,000 feet of any school, nor shall they operate or
be placed within 500 feet of any duly licensed daycare, residential treatment
facility or an attraction within a public park that is regularly used by minors
including a playground or athletic field. Distances set forth herein shall be a
parallel line from the closest two points property lines. Any signage or
advertisement for cannabis businesses and/or cannabis products, including low-
potency cannabis products, requires a permit from the City Administrator.
   (B)   Cannabis business shall not engage in the retail sale of hemp-derived
products, or low-potency hemp edibles from 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any
weekday Monday through Saturday. Neither shall any such sales be conducted on
any Sunday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. This division (B) does
not apply to adult-use cannabis products.
   (C)   Cannabis business selling adult-use cannabis products shall not engage
in the retail sale of adult-use cannabis products from 9:00 p.m. until 9:00
a.m. the following day on any weekday Monday through Saturday, and before 10:00
a.m. on Sundays. Neither shall any such sales be conducted on any Sunday
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. the following day.
   (D)   Cannabis businesses, hemp-derived retail businesses and low-potency
hemp retail businesses facilities shall meet or exceed the standards set forth
in the State Building Code, State Fire Code and the city’s code of ordinances.
   (E)   License holders shall operate in full compliance with the city’s
zoning controls including obtaining any applicable conditional use permits
prior to operation.
   (F)   No cannabis products, including low-potency edibles shall be sold from
any food trucks, motor vehicles, recreational vehicles or stands. Cannabis
products shall only be sold from brick-and-mortar permanent structures with an
established permanent foundation.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 LICENSE FEES.
   Fees for registration of cannabis businesses, hemp-derived retail businesses
and low-potency hemp retail businesses shall be set according to the city’s fee
schedule as it is amended from time to time. All fees shall be paid into the
city’s General Fund. License fees are non-refundable in the event that a
license applicant is rejected.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 111.07 LOCAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before making retail sales to customers or patients, a cannabis
microbusiness, cannabis mezzobusiness, cannabis retailer, medical cannabis
combination business or lower-potency hemp edible retailer must first register
with the city, town or county in which the retail establishment is located.
   (B)   The city shall impose a fee for an initial retail registration fee of
$500 or up to half the amount of the applicable initial license fee under M.S.
§ 342.11, as it may be amended from time to time, whichever is less. The
initial registration is good for the year in which the registration is
permitted. Registration shall be on an annual basis and shall be good until
December 31 of the year in which it was issued. Thereafter, an annual renewal
registration is required. The city shall also impose a renewal retail
registration fee of $1,000 or up to half the amount of the applicable renewal
license fee under M.S. § 342.11, as it may be amended from time to time,
whichever is less. The initial registration fee shall include the fee for
initial registration and the first annual renewal. Any renewal fee imposed by
the local unit of government shall be charged at the time of the second renewal
and each subsequent annual renewal thereafter. Registration fees are non-
refundable.
   (C)   (1)   A local unit of government shall issue a retail registration to
a cannabis microbusiness with a retail operations endorsement, cannabis
mezzobusiness with a retail operations endorsement, cannabis retailer, medical
cannabis combination business operating a retail location or lower-potency hemp
edible retailer that:
         (a)   Has a valid license or license preapproval issued by the Office
of Cannabis Management;
         (b)   Has paid the registration fee or renewal fee pursuant to
division (B) above;
         (c)   Is found to be in compliance with the requirements of this
chapter at any preliminary compliance check that the local unit of government
performs; and
         (d)   If applicable, is current on all property taxes and assessments
at the location where the retail establishment is located.
      (2)   Before issuing a retail registration, the local unit of government
may conduct a preliminary compliance check to ensure that the cannabis business
or hemp business is in compliance with any applicable local ordinance including
zoning ordinances.
      (3)   A local unit of government shall renew the retail registration of a
cannabis business or hemp business when the office renews the license of the
cannabis business or hemp business.
      (4)   A retail registration issued under this section may not be
transferred.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 111.08 CAPS ON LICENSES.
   (A)   There shall be no more than one license/registration issued for a
cannabis business.
   (B)   There shall be no more than four licenses/registration issued for a
hemp business or solely for low-potency hemp edible businesses.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 111.09 COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   (A)   The city’s Police Department or the County Sheriff’s Department shall
conduct compliance checks of every cannabis business, hemp business and low-
potency hemp edible business with a retail registration issued by the city.
During a compliance check, the Police Department shall assess a business’s
compliance with age verification requirements and compliance with any
applicable local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13, as it may be
amended from time to time, including zoning ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The Police Department or Sheriff’s Department must conduct
unannounced age verification compliance checks of every cannabis business, hemp
business and low-potency hemp edible business at least once each calendar year.
      (2)   Age verification compliance checks must involve persons at least 17
years of age but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written consent of a
parent or guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt to purchase
adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles or hemp-derived consumer products under the direct supervision of a law
enforcement officer or an employee of the local unit of government.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 111.10 REGISTRATION SUSPENSION AND CANCELLATION; NOTICE TO OFFICE OF CANNABIS
MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   If the city determines that a cannabis business, hemp business or low-
potency hemp edible business with a retail registration issued by the local
unit of government is not operating in compliance with the requirements of a
local ordinance authorized under M.S. § 342.13, as it may be amended from time
to time, or that the operation of the business poses an immediate threat to the
health or safety of the public, the City Council may suspend the retail
registration of the cannabis business, hemp business or low-potency edible
business. The City Administrator must immediately notify the Office of Cannabis
Management with the suspension and shall include a description of the grounds
for the suspension.
   (B)   The Office of Cannabis Management may review the retail registration
suspension and that Office may order reinstatement of the retail registration
or take any action described in M.S. §§ 342.19 or 342.21, as they may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   The retail registration suspension shall be for up to 30 days unless
the Office of Cannabis Management suspends the license and operating privilege
of the cannabis business or hemp business for a longer period or revokes the
license. Upon revocation by that Office, the registration shall be revoked.
   (D)   The City Council may reinstate the retail registration if the City
Council determines that any violation has been cured. The City Council must
reinstate the retail registration if the Office of Cannabis Management orders
reinstatement.
   (E)   No cannabis microbusiness, cannabis mezzobusiness, cannabis retailer,
medical cannabis combination business or lower-potency hemp edible retailer may
make any sale to a customer or patient without a valid retail registration with
the city and a valid license with any applicable endorsement from the Office of
Cannabis Management.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor offense
punishable by incarceration of up to 90 days, a fine of up to $1,000, or both.
This penalty shall be in addition to any civil penalty the city may impose.
   (B)   A local unit of government may impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000
for each violation of §
111.10(E), in addition to any additional penalties, civil or criminal, that
they may impose.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 11-12-2024)
CHAPTER 112: SPECIALIZED SALES AND SERVICES
Section
Exhibitions
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Application
Building Movers
   
112.15   License required
   
112.16   Bond
   
112.17   Conditions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
EXHIBITIONS
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to exhibit any show-
theatrical or any other performance whatever for which pay or compensation of
any kind shall be required, demanded or received; including caravans, circuses,
concerts, slight of hand performances and ventriloquists or any other
performance under whatsoever cause for which pay is received, without having
first having obtained a license therefor as by this section provided.
(Prior Code, § 310.01) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 APPLICATION.
   It shall be the duties of the City Clerk-Treasurer to issue a license to any
person or persons applying for the same for any of the purposes above mentioned
upon the payment of the person or persons for the license to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the city the sum of not less than $1 and not more than $15 for
each exhibition or performance at the discretion of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 310.02)
BUILDING MOVERS
§ 112.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person except a licensed house mover shall remove any building within the
corporate limits of the city; and every person shall annually, before engaging
in this occupation, obtain a license therefor from the City Recorder. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall, when the necessities of the case seem to require it,
grant the permit under the conditions and restrictions (to be set forth in the
permit) as shall in his or her judgment prevent needless inconveniences to the
public. The permit shall be in writing and may be revoked by the city, but
while in force shall protect the property from seizure and the person or
persons to whom the permit is issued from the penalties of this subchapter so
long as the person shall rigidly observe the conditions and restrictions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 340.01) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 BOND.
   No license shall be granted until the party applying therefor shall have
given a bond in the sum of $500, with good and sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the City Council, conditioned among other things; that the party
will pay any and all damages which may be caused to any property, either public
or private within the city whether the damage shall be inflicted by the party
or his or her agents, or employees, or workers; and conditioned also that the
party shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the city against all
liabilities, judgments, costs and expenses which may in any way, accrue against
city in consequence of the granting of the permit or license, and shall in all
things strictly comply with the conditions of the permit. Upon the execution of
the bond and its acceptance by the City Council, a license shall issue.
(Prior Code, § 340.02)
§ 112.17 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Blocking streets. In the removal or moving of buildings, no building
shall be allowed to stand on any crossing or on Main Street, between Langdon
and Martin Streets, longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   Damages. Nor shall any person so removing any building, whether under
the license, permit or otherwise, or any person in any way engaged in the
removal, remove, destroy, cut, deface, break or in any way injure any sidewalk,
catch basin, curbstone pavement, crosswalk, tree, fence, post, telegraph,
telephone or electric wire or pole or other thing, whether belonging to the
city or to any property owner in or upon, any street or anything adjacent to
any street across or through which the building is being removed.
(Prior Code, § 340.03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §§
112.01 and
112.02 shall constitute a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 310.03)
   (C)   Violation of §
112.15 through
112.17 shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 340.04)
CHAPTER 113: RENTAL PROPERTIES
Section
Rental Housing
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Inspector
   
113.03   License
   
113.04   Application
   
113.05   Issuance of temporary certificate
   
113.06   Issuance of license
   
113.07   Expiration
   
113.08   Transfer
   
113.09   Suspension and revocation
   
113.10   Display
   
113.11   Fees
   
113.12   Terms
Vacation By Owner Rentals
   
113.25   Purpose
   
113.26   Land use performance standards; general requirements and regulations
   
113.27   Licenses
   
113.28   Inspection; enforcement
   
113.29   Suspension and/or revocation of license
   
113.30   Revocation of license
 
   
113.99   Penalty
RENTAL HOUSING
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. Parent, stepparent, child, stepchild, grandparent,
grandchild, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, nephew or niece. This relationship
may be either by blood or by marriage.
   RENTAL HOUSING UNIT. Any building or structure, or portion thereof, which is
designed, built, remodeled, rented, leased or let or hired out to be occupied,
or which is occupied as a home or residence of a person or persons other than
the owner or purchaser of record. The term shall include sleeping rooms in
these structures but shall not include licensed motel or hotel rooms
customarily rented on a daily basis. The term shall not include nursing home
facilities or care center facilities that are regularly licensed and inspected
by state health agencies; nor shall it include any facilities owned or managed
under the auspices and direction or control of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development, nor shall it include any unit occupied by an immediate
family member.
(Prior Code, § 350.01) (Ord. 15-02, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 113.02 INSPECTOR.
   The city shall appoint a person to be the Housing Inspector for the city,
who shall have as part of his or her duties, the inspection and reporting on
rental units as required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 350.02)
§ 113.03 LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate or cause to be
operated either as owner, lessee, agent or in any other capacity within the
city, any rental housing as defined in this subchapter without having first
obtained a license or temporary certificate to do so as provided in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 350.03) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The owner of each rental housing unit shall make written application
to the City Clerk-Treasurer for a license on a form to be supplied by the city
and containing such information as necessary to administer and enforce the
provisions of this subchapter and the minimum standards of the Uniform Housing
Code.
   (B)   The legal owner of record of the rental housing unit, including any
contract purchaser thereof shall make written application to the City Clerk-
Treasurer for a license as provided in this subchapter prior to any initial
occupancy, and prior to license renewal. Every applicant for a license shall
assist the city in making an inspection of all portions of the building,
including the notification to building occupants of the time of the inspection
and requesting their cooperation during the course of the inspection.
(Prior Code, § 350.04)
§ 113.05 ISSUANCE OF TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE.
   Upon receipt of a completed application for a license, the payment of
necessary fees as set forth in this subchapter the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue a temporary certificate indicating that a license has been duly applied
for and that the license shall be issued or denied after the building has been
inspected for compliance with the minimal provisions of the Uniform Housing
Code, including those set forth in the minimum standards for rental housing in
the city which are incorporated into and made a part of this subchapter by
reference. The temporary certificate as issued shall authorize continued
occupancy, without penalty, of the dwelling units in actual existence and use
on the effective date of this subchapter, pending the issuance or denial of the
applied for license. No structure intended for use as a rental housing unit
shall be occupied for human habitation without the license or temporary
certificate described in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 350.05)
§ 113.06 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   If upon completion of the inspection of the building and habitable
portions thereof, it is found that the minimum requirements of the Uniform
Housing Code have been met, a license shall be issued. Unless there has been a
change in ownership, no inspection shall be required nor inspection fee charged
for three years after the issuance of a license unless a complaint of a
violation has been made or the Housing Inspector finds deficiencies When
ownership changes, a transfer of the license under §
113.08 is required.
   (B)   If the Housing Inspector finds code deficiencies, either at the time
of license application or when a complaint of a violation has been made, he or
she shall list the deficiencies, note necessary corrections and give these
findings to the building owner and all occupants with a notice to correct the
deficiencies within a reasonable period of time, however, not to exceed 90 days
from issuance of the notice described above. If, upon reinspection, the Housing
Inspector fords that the requirements of the code have still not been met, a
written denial specifying the defects shall be transmitted to the applicant.
When a license has been denied, expired, suspended or revoked as provided in
this subchapter, no further rental and occupancy of dwelling units then vacant
or which may become vacant shall be permitted until a license has been issued.
Units occupied that are not licensed, based on the license being either
expired, revoked or suspended or denied shall be vacated by the occupants,
within 30 days of the receipt by the occupant of notice of the expiration,
suspension, revocation or denial of the license.
   (C)   The units within a structure which are in compliance with the Uniform
Housing Code minimal requirements may continue on condition that units in other
portions of the structure in non-compliance do not create an immediate hazard
to the health and safety to the persons in the occupied units. The extended
occupancy may continue until final denial of the license and noncompliance is
acted upon by the City Council.
   (D)   The Housing Inspector for the city shall make an inspection of a
licensee’s rental units once every three years, unless there has been a
complaint of a violation and the Housing Inspector has found code deficiencies.
Within one year after the code deficiencies have been corrected, there shall be
an inspection and if no deficiencies are found, no other inspection shall be
made nor inspection fees charged until three years from the date of the
inspection, unless a complaint is made or the ownership of the property has
changed. Before a transfer of a license under §
113.08 shall occur, there shall be an inspection and any deficiencies shall be
corrected as provided in this division (D).
(Prior Code, § 350.06)
§ 113.07 EXPIRATION.
   All licenses issued under this section shall be for a period of one year.
The license period shall begin on April 1 and shall expire on March 31. A
temporary certificate may be issued for a period of up to 12 months from the
date of its issue, or until a proper license has been applied for and approved
or denied.
(Prior Code, § 350.07)
§ 113.08 TRANSFER.
   No license nor any temporary certificate issued under this subchapter shall
be transferrable except by application to the City Clerk-Treasurer and a report
and recommendation of transfer by the city’s Housing Inspector. No refunds
shall be made for unused periods on any license.
(Prior Code, § 350.08)
§ 113.09 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   A license or temporary certificate once issued or reissued may be
suspended upon a finding by the Housing Inspector that one or more of the
requirements of this subchapter has been violated. Upon failure of the licensee
to comply with a notice of violation, the license may be revoked by the City
Council on recommendation of the Housing Inspector.
   (B)   Suspended licenses may be revalidated upon meeting the requirements of
this subchapter with payment of 50% of the applicable license and inspection
fee. Issuance of a new license after revocation shall be subject to a payment
of the full amount of applicable license and inspection fees.
(Prior Code, § 350.09)
§ 113.10 DISPLAY.
   Licenses or temporary certificates issued under this subchapter shall be
displayed on the premises of the structure wherever feasible and produced on
demand by any tenant or prospective tenant, and shall be available at
reasonable times for inspection by the Housing Inspector or any law enforcement
officer.
(Prior Code, § 350.10)
§ 113.11 FEES.
   (A)   At the time of application, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall collect the
appropriate license and inspection fee in accordance with the following
schedule:
      (1)   Annual license fee:
         (a)   One building: $25; and
         (b)   Additional buildings (owned by the same landlord): $20.
      (2)   Inspection fee:
         (a)   First inspection (each for one to four units): $50;
         (b)   First inspection (each for five or more units): $25; and
         (c)   All re-inspections (each): $25.
   (B)   For license periods after August 1 to March 31, the license fee will
be 50% of regular fee and all inspection fees will be as noted above.
(Prior Code, § 350.11) (Res. 03-22, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 113.12 TERMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any lessor to rent a rental housing unit to a
tenant in violation of this subchapter, whether the occupancy is for a tenancy
at will or by written lease.
   (B)   To continue the license on any rental unit, it shall be the
responsibility of the license holder to cause the unit occupants to conduct
themselves in a manner as to not cause the premises to be disorderly.
   (C)   Upon determination that the licensed premises were used in a
disorderly manner, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the license holder by
mail of the violation and direct the license holder to take all necessary steps
to prevent further violations.
   (D)   If a second instance of disorderly use of the premises occurs within
12 months of the previous determination, the license holder shall be notified
of the second instance and shall also be required to submit a written response
detailing the actions taken by the license holder to eliminate future
disorderly use of the premises. This report shall be submitted to the City
Clerk-Treasurer, and conveyed to the City Council.
   (E)   If a third instance of disorderly use of the premises occurs within 12
months of the first determination, the rental housing unit license or temporary
certificate may be revoked or suspended by the City Council. No suspension or
revocations shall be considered by the City Council without first giving the
license holder notice of the meeting at which this action shall be considered
and the license holder has an opportunity to respond.
   (F)   The suspension or revocation maybe for all units in a given building
or complex of buildings. After suspension or revocation, the City Council may
reissue the license or temporary certificate if substantial improvements are
made to correct problems causing the suspension or revocation and the license
holder pays to the city a reinstatement fee of $50.
(Prior Code, § 350.12)
VACATION BY OWNER RENTALS
§ 113.25 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to allow and provide for the
licensing, inspection and rental of short-term vacation properties which
consist of non-traditional lodging for overnight stays on a daily or weekly
basis of 30 days or less of a private single-family dwelling, cabin or
condominium which provides basic living accommodations including sleeping
space, toilet and cooking space.
   (B)   This does not include bed and breakfasts, resorts, campgrounds or
hotels/motels. Attached garages and accessory structures including, but not
limited to, boat houses, detached garages, sheds and/or barns are not
acceptable dwelling units.
(Ord. 360, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 113.26 LAND USE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Maximum capacity. No more than three occupants, excluding children
under age three, per bedroom shall be allowed to stay on the property on-site
overnight (OVERNIGHT being defined as from sunset to sunrise). During the
DAYTIME HOURS, as defined from sunrise to sunset, the maximum capacity shall be
no more than one and one-half times the overnight capacity.
   (B)   A maximum of one rental unit per conforming dwelling lot of record.
The one rental unit allowed must be the primary structure associated with the
lot in question and cannot be an outbuilding, camper, motor vehicle,
recreational vehicle, guest house, guest cottage or any other structure.
Variances from this requirement can be requested as part of the licensing
procedure and the same shall be handled as a variance from the city’s zoning
code.
   (C)   Onsite parking only. Parking must be in designated parking spaces
only. This includes all motorized vehicles, fish houses, campers and trailers.
There shall be one designated and dedicated parking space per bedroom. The
number and location of parking spaces must be included and clearly defined and
delineated on the VRBO license application. All parking spaces shall be a
minimum of 200 square feet and be on an impervious surface.
   (D)   Parking in designated areas. Ice houses, fish houses, campers, tents,
recreational vehicles, all-terrain vehicles and golf carts must be placed in a
designated parking spot. These items cannot be parked in the yard on the grass.
All must be parked on an impervious surface.
   (E)   Permits required. Rentals of motorized watercraft and recreational
vehicles are allowed if they display a valid permit issued by the State
Department of Natural Resources.
   (F)   Quiet hours. Quiet hours shall be from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. During
this time, excessive or loud noise is prohibited. EXCESSIVE OR LOUD NOISE shall
be defined as unreasonably loud, boisterous, obscene, offensive or abusive
language or noise as heard from a neighboring property to the licensed
property. It shall include, but not necessarily be limited to the following
types of conduct: shouting, yelling, playing loud music, unreasonably loud
conversation or loud partying, all as heard from the neighboring property.
   (G)   Property lines. Property lines shall be clearly marked with the
applicant submitting a map with clearly delineated property lines on the
application.
   (H)   Fireworks. Fireworks shall be prohibited.
   (I)   Garbage and garbage removal. All garbage, refuse or recycling shall be
stored completely enclosed in designated garbage containers. The property shall
be serviced for garbage removal by a professional removal company per the
city’s ordinances. Per city ordinance, garbage cans are also to be removed from
the boulevards by the day following garbage pickup.
   (J)   Campfires. All campfires shall be confined to a three-foot by three-
foot maximum size. There shall be no unattended campfires. Campfires shall by
in designated areas only.
   (K)   Sewage.
      (1)   The property must have a fully operational and fully complaint
subsurface sewage treatment system (SSTS) or be connected to municipal
services.
      (2)   Holding tanks are prohibited.
      (3)   The property must follow and comply with the county’s compliance
inspection time parameters.
      (4)   The system must be properly sized for proper use.
      (5)   The SSTS must be kept in a constant state of compliance and under a
valid operating permit.
   (L)   Firearms. The discharge of firearms, including CO2, pellet or BB guns,
is prohibited.
   (M)   Pets. Pets shall be attended to and be leashed at all times.
   (N)   Registration and license. All properties must be registered and
licensed by the city.
   (O)   Liability insurance. The applicant for a license shall acquire and
keep in full force and effect for the duration of the permit, liability
insurance in the minimum amount of $1,000,000 that specifically covers use of
the property as a VRBO.
   (P)   Property manager. All properties shall have a manager of the property
who is capable of effectively handling complaints and issues arising at the
property. The rental owner, operator or manager shall designate a local contact
on the license application that meets the following requirements:
      (1)   Must be able to respond within ten minutes via phone and within 30
minutes in person;
      (2)   Has administrative authority over the property and guests; and
      (3)   Has knowledge of the vacation rental unit, the property, rental and
city rules, standards and procedures, and effectively handles the same.
   (Q)   Operations guide. An operations guide shall be available within the
premises and provided to users of the property that includes the following
information:
      (1)   Manager contact information;
      (2)   Maximum capacity;
      (3)   Parking restrictions;
      (4)   Quiet house;
      (5)   Campfire information;
      (6)   Watercraft information;
      (7)   Rules of the rental;
      (8)   Emergency contacts (police, fire, hospital, city offices); and
      (9)   Boundary lines.
(Ord. 360, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.27 LICENSES.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
corporation, partnership or otherwise to operate a lodging establishment herein
called for within the city who does not possess a valid VRBO license.
   (B)   Application. Any person desiring to operate a property or structure
thereon which consist of non-traditional lodging for overnight stays on a daily
or weekly basis of 30 days or less of a private single-family dwelling, cabin
or condominium which provides basic living accommodations including sleeping
space, toilet and cooking space shall first be licensed by the city. Any such
person or entity shall apply for the license through the City Administrator or
the City Administrator’s designee.
   (C)   Inspections-initial inspection and thereafter every three years. The
property shall initially be inspected by a licensed building inspector and pass
the inspection. Inspections, and passage of the same, shall take place upon
initial grant of the license with an additional inspection each three years
thereafter.
   (D)   Licenses-renewal. Each license shall be good for one year. Licenses
shall be issued during the year and shall expire on December 31 of each and
every year. Automatic renewals do not occur. License renewal applications shall
be submitted to the city on forms provided by it, with the renewal fee, no
later than one month proceeding the date of expiration.
   (E)   Renewal fee schedule. Initial and renewal license applications shall
be accompanied by the applicable fee. All license fees are non-refundable.
License fees shall be established in accordance with the city’s fees schedule
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (F)   Non-transferable. Licenses are non-transferable including change of
ownership situations.
(Ord. 360, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.28 INSPECTION; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city shall contract with a professional inspector to verify
compliance with the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The establishment to be regulated hereunder shall fully comply with
the State Building Code, State Fire Code, State Mechanical Code, the city’s
ordinances, the city’s zoning code and the terms and provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   The person operating an established shall, upon request of the city or
city’s Inspector, permit access to all parts of the establishment at any
reasonable time for the purpose of inspecting and shall exhibit and provide
such records necessary to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (D)   Any noted deficiencies noted by the Inspector shall be remedies timely
as determined by the Inspector.
(Ord. 360, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 113.29 SUSPENSION AND/OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Suspension of license. Licenses may be suspended temporarily by the
City Administrator, at any time for failure of the license holder to comply
with the terms and requirements of this subchapter. Notice of temporary
suspension shall be mailed by first class U.S. mail to the address indicated on
the license application. The applicant shall be entitled to an opportunity for
a hearing before the City Council to address the temporary suspension. The
request for hearing shall be filed with the City Administrator within ten
working days of the City Administrator’s notice of revocation. In the event
that the time parameter set forth herein is not complied with, then the license
holder shall be deemed to have waived their right to a hearing on the
suspension issue.
   (B)   Emergency closure. Whenever the city finds that an emergency exists
which requires immediate action to protect public health, it may, without
notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of an emergency and
require that such action be taken as deemed necessary to meet the emergency.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this subchapter, the order shall be
effective immediately. Any person to whom an emergency order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately.
      (1)   Emergency closure of an establishment will be ordered if a
prohibited activity is occurring or it is determined that the establishment is
an imminent health hazard.
      (2)   Following an emergency closure, the establishment shall not reopen
or allow others to be permitted to be on the site, without written permission
from the city.
      (3)   The city must give written permission to reopen upon submission of
satisfactory proof that the property condition(s) causing the need for
emergency closure have been corrected or removed by the operator(s).
(Ord. 360, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 113.30 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Upon an license holder’s third conviction in two years for any violation of
the terms and conditions of this subchapter or the terms and conditions of any
provision of the city’s nuisance ordinances, the license shall be reviewed by
the City Council for possible revocation and, upon a fourth violation in two
years, it shall be automatically revoked by the City Council. Upon either
situation, the applicant shall be entitled to an opportunity for a hearing
before the City Council to address the revocation issue. The request for
hearing shall be filed with the City Administrator within ten working days of
the City Administrator’s notice of revocation. In the event that the time
parameter set forth herein is not complied with, then the license holder shall
be deemed to have waived their right to a hearing on the suspension issue.
(Ord. 360, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §§
113.01 through
113.12 shall be a petty misdemeanor. Second or subsequent violations of §§
113.01 through
113.12 in a five-year period shall be a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any violation of §
113.25 through
113.30, by either the owner, tenant, occupant, manager or such other person
having control over or being present at the establishment is a misdemeanor
offense punishable a fine of up to $1,000 or 90 days imprisonment. The first
offense shall be a scheduled fine of $250, the second offense shall be a
scheduled fine of $500 and the third offense shall be a scheduled fine of
$1,000.
(Prior Code, § 350.13) (Ord. 360, passed 9-25-2023)
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
114.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
114.04   License ineligibility
   
114.05   License suspension and revocation
   
114.06   License transferability
   
114.07   Registration
   
114.08   Prohibited activities
   
114.09   Exclusion by placard
   
114.10   Effectiveness
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NON-COMMERCIAL DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCATE. A person who goes door-to-door for the
primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social or other
ideological beliefs. For purposes of this chapter, the term DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCATE shall fall under the term SOLICITOR and include door-to-door
canvassing and pamphleteering intended for non-commercial purposes.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
HAWKER.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or similar association.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the City Hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as REGULAR BUSINESS DAYS.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the
same as the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter or empty storefront for
the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell,
and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property
and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for more than
14 consecutive days.
§ 114.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Exceptions to the definitions in §
114.01 are as follows:
      (1)   Non-commercial door-to-door advocates. Nothing within this chapter
shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict non-commercial door-to-door
advocates. Person engaging in non-commercial door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as a solicitor under §
114.07;
      (2)   Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods,
wares, products, merchandise or other personal property to a retail seller of
the items being sold by the wholesaler;
      (3)   Any person who makes initial contacts with other people for the
purpose of establishing or trying to establish a regular customer delivery
route for the delivery of perishable food and dairy products, such as baked
goods or milk;
      (4)   Any person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products
to the customers on his or her established delivery route;
      (5)   Any person making deliveries of newspapers, newsletters or other
similar publications on an established customer delivery route, when attempting
to establish a regular delivery route, or when publications are delivered to
the community at large;
      (6)   Any person conducting the type of sale commonly known as garage
sales, rummage sales or estate sales;
      (7)   Any person participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or
flea market;
      (8)   Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer;
and
      (9)   Any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale.
   (B)   Exemption from these definitions shall not, for the scope of this
chapter, excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory
provision or requirement provided by another city ordinance.
§ 114.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S.
Chapter 329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a
license for the activity.
   (B)   City license required. Pursuant to M.S. § 437.02, as it may be amended
from time to time, except as otherwise provided for by this chapter, no person
shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient merchant without
first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need not be licensed,
but are still required to register pursuant to §
114.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business operations in the
city. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the City
Council and available from the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. All
applications shall be signed by the applicant. All applications shall include
the following information:
      (1)   Applicant’s full legal name;
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence; and
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business (if any);
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city, with a maximum 14 consecutive
days;
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any required county license;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
      (19)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number (VIN) for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business, and a physical description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the ordinance establishing fees and
charges, adopted pursuant to §
33.02, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk-Treasurer, within two regular business days,
must determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to
be complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk-
Treasurer determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk-
Treasurer must inform the applicant of the required necessary information that
is missing. If the application is complete, the City Clerk-Treasurer must order
any investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the
information provided with the application. Within ten regular business days of
receiving a complete application, the City Clerk-Treasurer must issue the
license unless there exist grounds for denying the license under §
114.04, in which case, the Clerk-Treasurer must deny the license application.
If the City Clerk-Treasurer denies the license application, the applicant must
be notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial and of the
applicant’s right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days of
receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City Council. The
City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days of the date of the request
for a public hearing. The decision of the City Council following the public
hearing can be appealed by petitioning the State Court of Appeals for a writ of
certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted to
peddlers and transient merchants under this chapter shall be valid only during
the time period indicated on the license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street or other type of
place-to-place movement when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that
person’s state or federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech,
press, religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the
person’s exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person’s
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in a
professional, honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not
be limited to burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business
practices and any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another
person;
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant; and
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Office of the State Attorney General, or other state attorney
general’s office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or
agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints filed against the
applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 114.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by the applicant on the application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense for which granting of a
license could have been denied under §
114.04;
      (4)   Engaging in prohibited activity as provided under §
114.08; and/or
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C)
above, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If no
request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk-Treasurer within ten
regular business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed
with the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service
shall be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail.
If a public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall
be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) above.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.07 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements
of this chapter under §
114.03, shall be required to register with the city prior to engaging in those
activities. Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license
application, but no fee shall be required. Immediately upon completion of the
registration form, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to the registrant a
certificate of registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of
registration shall be non-transferrable.
   (B)   Individuals that will be engaging in non-commercial door-to-door
advocacy shall not be required to register.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door
advocate or other person engaged in other similar activities shall conduct
business in any of the following manner:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration and identification
when requested; or using the license or registration of another person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person; and
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conducting business in a manner a reasonable person would find
obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   (A)   Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no
peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate or
other person engaged in other similar activities shall enter onto the property
of another for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor,
transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate or similar activity
when the property is marked with a sign or placard:
      (1)   At least four inches long;
      (2)   At least four inches wide;
      (3)   With print of at least 48-point in size; and
      (4)   Stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors or Transient Merchants”,
“Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient Merchants Prohibited” or other comparable
statement.
   (B)   No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove, deface
or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.10 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The provisions of §§
114.01,
114.02,
114.08 and
114.09 shall automatically apply upon adoption of this chapter. Sections
114.03,
114.04,
114.05,
114.06 and
114.07 shall not be effective until the adoption of a City Council resolution
or ordinance authorizing the licensing of persons covered by those sections.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Use of THC products in public places
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or Fire Department
personnel and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter and other basic necessities to the minor. The
person providing PRIMARY CARE OR CUSTODY to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work;
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly or freedom of religion;
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence; and/or
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian or
other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 USE OF THC PRODUCTS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   There shall be no public consumption of cannabinoids, cannabinoid products,
products having a cannabinoid profile, products having a cannabis concentrate,
intoxicating cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp-derived edibles, synthetic
cannabinoids or tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) products, as those products are
defined in M.S. Chapter 342, § 342.01, as amended from time to time, in the
city at the following locations:
   (A)   Any city owned or city leased property including the grounds, parking
lot or structures thereon;
   (B)   City Hall;
   (C)   The city’s Public Works Building;
   (D)   Fire Hall;
   (E)   Police Station;
   (F)   Any park;
   (G)   Any beach;
   (H)   Any playground;
   (I)   Any ballfield;
   (J)   Any concession stand;
   (K)   School grounds;
   (L)   Library grounds;
   (M)   Any sidewalk;
   (N)   Any parking lot;
   (O)   Any cemetery;
   (P)   Any festival or farmers market;
   (Q)   Any street or sidewalk; and/or
   (R)   Any other place where the public is invited to gather.
(Ord. 590, passed 8-28-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Curfew penalties.
      (1)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of §
130.02 may be adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional
alternatives set forth in M.S. § 260B.198, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of §
130.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   THC in public places. A violation of §
130.02 shall be a petty misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of $290.
(Ord. 590, passed 8-28-2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
151.   BUILDING AND HOUSING
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Construction and Excavation
   
150.01   Council improvement order
   
150.02   Petitions
   
150.03   Curb line and grade
   
150.04   Base level of grade
   
150.05   Permit and license required
   
150.06   Special permit
   
150.07   Standards
   
150.08   Assessments
Street Directions and Names
   
150.20   Measurements
   
150.21   Naming streets
   
150.22   Boundaries
   
150.23   City responsibility
Right-of-Way Management
   
150.35   Findings and purpose
   
150.36   Definitions
   
150.37   Administration
   
150.38   Permit requirement
   
150.39   Permit applications
   
150.40   Permit information
   
150.41   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
150.42   Permit fees
   
150.43   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
150.44   Joint applications
   
150.45   Supplementary applications
   
150.46   Other obligations
   
150.47   Denial of permit
   
150.48   Installation requirements
   
150.49   Inspection
   
150.50   Work done without a permit
   
150.51   Supplementary notification
   
150.52   Revocation of permits
   
150.53   Mapping data
   
150.54   Location of equipment
   
150.55   Relocation of facilities
   
150.56   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
150.57   Damage to other facilities
   
150.58   Right-of-way vacation
   
150.59   Indemnification and liability
   
150.60   Abandoned facilities
   
150.61   Appeal rights
   
150.62   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
 
   
150.99   Penalty
CONSTRUCTION AND EXCAVATION
§ 150.01 COUNCIL IMPROVEMENT ORDER.
   The City Council may by a resolution adopted by two-thirds of all the
members elected to the City Council direct and order the construction or
improvement of any street or alley, or the building or repairing of any
sidewalk. The resolution shall describe the kind and character of the
improvement and the material of which it shall be constructed and the time
within which, and the street or place along which, the improvement shall be
constructed.
(Prior Code, § 700.01)
§ 150.02 PETITIONS.
   Upon the petition for building or repairing of any street, alley or sidewalk
by two-thirds of the owners of the property to be charged with the cost
thereof, the Council shall order and direct the same to be done by resolution
specifying the improvement as in §
150.01.
(Prior Code, § 700.02)
§ 150.03 CURB LINE AND GRADE.
   The curb line of all sidewalks on Broadway Street shall be eight feet and
four inches from the outer line of the street, and on all other streets six
feet from the outer line of the street and the grade for all sidewalks shall be
one foot above the established grade of the street directly opposite where the
sidewalk may be.
(Prior Code, § 700.03)
§ 150.04 BASE LEVEL OF GRADE.
   (A)   The datum line or base of levels for establishing the grades of all
streets within the corporate limits of the city shall be the top of the five-
inch pipe of well in the center of Broadway, at the crossing of Washburn
Street, and shall be indicated by the following benchmark to wit: The top of
the water table at the southeast corner of the brick building on lot 14 block
ten in the city is ten and one-half feet above datum line. The grades
established by this subchapter that may be hereafter established shall be
calculated from the datum line established of §
150.05, and shall be calculated for the middle of the several streets in which
they are established.
   (B)   The elevation of Broadway above datum line at a point 380 feet south
of the center of Washburn Street two and six-tenths feet 50 feet north of the
point is three and four-tenths feet 100 feet north of the point is four and
two-tenths feet 150 feet north of the point is five feet 200 feet north of the
point is five and eight-tenths feet 250 feet north of the point is six and six-
tenths feet 300 feet north of the point is seven and four-tenths feet 350 feet
north of the point is eight feet 600 feet north of the point is five and six-
tenths feet 950 feet north of the point is four feet.
(Prior Code, § 700.04)
§ 150.05 PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person other than a city employee or contractor shall engage in the
business or activity of laying, relaying, repairing or reconstructing concrete
sidewalks or curb and gutters for hire in the city without first having applied
for and received from the city a license to do so, nor shall any person lay,
relay, repair or reconstruct any concrete sidewalk or curb and gutter upon any
public street of the city without a license or without complying with the terms
of this subchapter. Each person desiring a license shall make application to
the City Clerk-Treasurer stating his or her name, age and the number of years
in which he or she has been engaged in the business of constructing sidewalks
and curb and gutters. If a partnership, the application shall be signed by each
person comprising the partnership and the above information shall be given
relative to each person. Applicant shall pay an annual license fee of $10 for
each person and the license shall show the individuals comprising the
partnership to whom license shall be granted. No license shall be granted under
a trade name. The applicant, or applicants, shall also file with the City
Clerk-Treasurer a surety bond in the penal sum of $1,000 payable to the city
for the use and benefit of the city and/or any person, or persons, who employ
the holders of a license E in the business of laying or relaying sidewalks or
curb and gutters in the city and who may be damaged by the failure of the
licensed person, or persons, to comply with the provisions and terms of this
subchapter or because of poor materials or workmanship furnished by the
licensee of his or her employees.
   (B)   In addition to furnishing the bond, each person desiring a license
shall file with the Recorder a policy of insurance condition to protect the
city for any acts or omission of a licensee. The insurance policy shall be a
property protection of $5,000 and a public liability protection of $15,000. No
policy shall be subject to cancellation except upon 15 days’ notice given in
writing by the insurance company to the city. Cancellation of the bond or of
the insurance company shall automatically cancel the license granted in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 700.05) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 SPECIAL PERMIT.
   A special permit may be granted and issued without a charge to any owner of
property within the corporate limits of the city by the City Council, upon
written application therefor, authorizing the property owner to lay, relay,
repair or reconstruct a sidewalk fronting on the owner’s property only. Each
property owner granted a special permit shall be subject to all provisions of
the plans and specifications to which reference is herein made such other
conditions as may be imposed by the City Council upon recommendation of the
Engineer and the property owner shall be wholly responsible for and personally
defend any legal action that may be instituted for any damage arising from
sidewalk constructing or operations incident thereto performed by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 700.06)
§ 150.07 STANDARDS.
   (A)   All sidewalks laid, relayed, repaired or reconstructed hereunder shall
be so laid as to conform to the grade as established by the City Council and as
furnished to the licensee or special permit holder by the Engineer. All work
shall be subject to the supervision and control of the Engineer, his or her
Street Commissioner or other proper officer or employee, and he or she shall
see that the requirements of this subchapter shall be enforced.
   (B)   During progress of any work, suitable and proper barricade shall be
erected by the licensee or special permit holder together with the proper
warning signs and lights and the licensee and holder of a special permit shall
further see that any street upon which work has been done shall be replaced in
as good condition as it was prior to the time work was commended. All sidewalk
and curb and gutter construction shall conform to the plans and specifications
approved and ordered by the City Council to be placed on file with the City
Recorder.
   (C)   The plans and specifications may be amended at any time, by motion
duly made and passed by the City Council, without the formality of a resolution
or the necessity of publishing the motion.
(Prior Code, § 700.07)
§ 150.08 ASSESSMENTS.
   Whenever any curb and gutter improvements or repair or replacement thereof
shall be deemed needed and necessary and following a public hearing therefore,
all costs of the improvement shall be assessed back to the individual property
owner for each parcel of land so improved as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 700.08)
STREET DIRECTIONS AND NAMES
§ 150.20 MEASUREMENTS.
   (A)   The definition, measurements and directions of all streets, alleys and
public areas shall be as indicated on the official city map.
   (B)   The designation by name and number shall be as indicated on the
official city map.
   (C)   The distance and course of the streets, alleys, public areas and
thoroughfares shall be as indicated on the official city map.
(Prior Code, § 710.01)
§ 150.21 NAMING STREETS.
   Renaming the streets, alleys, public thoroughfares and public areas shall be
named and designated in accordance with the designation established by plat
attached to the ordinance codified herein and marked Exhibit “A”.
(Prior Code, § 710.02)
§ 150.22 BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the lots, blocks, streets, public thoroughfares and public
areas shall be accepted as boundaries for purposes of legal descriptions.
(Prior Code, § 710.03)
§ 150.23 CITY RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall assume no responsibility for the accuracy in the delineating
of distances, direction or areas of either streets, lots, blocks or plats of
public areas insofar as change of title is concerned.
(Prior Code, § 710.04)
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
§ 150.35 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   To provide for the health and safety and well-being of its citizens,
and to ensure the structural integrity of its streets and the appropriate use
of the rights-of-way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of
good repair and free from unnecessary encumbrances. Although the general
population bears the financial burden for the upkeep of the rights-of-way, a
primary cause for the early and excessive deterioration of its rights-of-way is
frequent excavation.
   (B)   Right-of-way obstruction is a source of frustration for merchants,
business owners and the general population which must avoid these obstructions
or change travel or shopping plans because of them and has a detrimental effect
on commerce. Persons whose equipment is within the right-of-way are the primary
cause of these frequent obstructions.
   (C)   The city holds the rights-of-way within its geographical boundaries as
an asset in trust for its citizens. The city and other public entities have
invested millions of dollars in public funds to build and maintain the rights-
of-way. It also recognized that some persons, by placing their equipment in the
right-of-way and charging the citizens of the city for goods and services
delivered thereby, are using this property held for the public good. Although
these services are often necessary or convenient for the citizens, those
persons receive revenue and/or profit through their use of public property.
   (D)   In response to the foregoing facts, the city enacts this subchapter
relating to right-of-way permits and administration, together with an ordinance
making necessary revision to other code provisions. This subchapter imposes
reasonable regulations on the placement and maintenance of equipment currently
within its rights-of-way or to be places therein at some future time. It is
intended to complement the regulatory roles of state and federal agencies.
Under this subchapter, persons disturbing and obstructing the rights-of-way
will bear a fair share of the financial responsibility for their integrity.
Finally, this subchapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and projected
costs from persons using the public rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 720.01)
§ 150.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service and physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not ABANDONED
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way.
   CITY. The City of New Richland, Minnesota. For purposes of §
150.59, CITY means its elected officials, officers, employees and agents.
   CITY MANAGEMENT COST. The actual cost incurred by the city in managing its
public rights-of-way management, including, but not limited to costs associated
with issuing, processing and verifying right-of-way permit applications;
inspecting job sites and restoration projects, maintaining, supporting,
protecting or moving user facilities during public right-of-way work;
determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and opportunity to correct; and
performing all other tasks required by this subchapter, including other costs
the city may incur in managing the provisions of this subchapter.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. As referenced in M.S. § 237.162, subd. 8(2),
as it may be amended from time to time, means any of the following forms of
security provided at the permittee’s option:
      (1)   Individual project bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, subd. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (5)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city; and
      (6)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. The accelerated depreciation of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct the right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. The cost to achieve a level of restoration as determined
by the city at the time the permit is issued, not to exceed the maximum
restoration described in the applicable Rule of the State Public Utilities
Commission.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by excavation, and which equal the degradation cost.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way construction or obstruction.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works of the city.
   DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR. Any person authorized by the City Council to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this subchapter.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that poses a clear and immediate danger to life or
health, or of a significant loss of property; or requires immediate repair or
replacement of facilities in order to restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair or maintain facilities
in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way, except horticultural practices of
penetrating the boulevard area to a depth of less than 12 inches.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this subchapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in aright-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in the
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
150.42.
   FACILITY. Any tangible asset in the public right-of-way required to provide
utility services.
   IN. When used in conjunction with “right-of-way”, means over, above, in,
within, on or under a right-of-way.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of that person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this subchapter.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any object in a right-of-way so as to hinder free and
open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this subchapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way by
placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way for the duration of
specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Any money paid to the city by the applicant to cover
the costs as provided in §
150.42.
   PATCH. A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in nature. A PATCH
consists of the compaction of the subbase and aggregate base, and the
replacement, in kind, of existing pavement for a minimum of two feet beyond the
edges of the excavation in all directions.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this subchapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or non-profit, and whether natural, corporate or political.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Has the meaning given it in M.S. § 237.162, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   REPAIR. The temporary construction work necessary to make the right-of-way
useable for travel.
   RESTORATION BOND. A performance bond, a letter of credit or cash deposit
posted to ensure the availability of sufficient funds to assure that right-of-
way excavation and obstruction work is completed in both a timely and quality
manner.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition that existed before the commencement of the work.
   RESTORATION COST. An amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
cover the cost of restoration according to this subchapter and any applicable
rules of the State Public Utilities Commission.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit or the obstruction permit,
or both, depending on the context, required by this subchapter.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Includes but is not limited to those services
provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. § 216B.02, subds. 4 and 6, as
they may be amended from time to time; telecommunications, pipeline, community
antenna television, fire and alarm communications, water, electricity, light,
heat, cooling energy or power services; the services provided by a corporation
organized for the purposes set forth in M.S. § 301B.01, as it may be amended
from time to time; the services provided by a district heating or cooling
system; cable communications systems as defined in M.S. Chapter 238, as it may
be amended from time to time; and a telecommunications right-of-way user as
defined herein.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHTS-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the public right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in
the public right-of-way, that is used or is intended to be used for
transporting telecommunications or other voice or date information. For
purposes of this subchapter, a cable communication system defined and regulated
under M.S. Chapter 238, as it may be amended from time to time, and
telecommunication activities related to providing natural gas or electric
energy services are not TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USERS.
(Prior Code, § 720.02)
§ 150.37 ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Council is the principal city official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits and the ordinances
related thereto. The City Council may delegate any or all of the duties
hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 720.03)
§ 150.38 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
necessary right-of-way permit from the City Council to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of-way described in the permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless the person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, and a new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. Notwithstanding division (B) above, the city shall
establish and impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way
excavation, obstruction, patching or restoration. The delay penalty shall be
established from time to time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously displayed at all times at the incited work site and shall be
available for inspection by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 720.04) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.39 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the City Council. Right-of-way permit
applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon,
compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all existing and proposed equipment; and
   (B)   Payment of all money due to the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees and other city management costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage or expense suffered by the city because
of the applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way or
any emergency actions taken by the city; and
      (4)   Franchise or user fees if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 720.05)
§ 150.40 PERMIT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the City Council at
the time of application shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each applicant’s name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of application;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Shall be on a form approved by the city;
         (b)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
applicant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or is
covered by self insurance which the City Council determines to provide the city
with protections equivalent to that of a state licensed insurance company,
legally independent from the applicant;
         (c)   Verifying that the applicant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the applicant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees, and placement and use of equipment
in the right-of-way by the applicant, its officers, agents, employees and
permittees, including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising
from completed operations, damage of underground equipment and collapse of
property;
         (d)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and from whom defense
will be provided as to all these coverages;
         (e)   Requiring that the City Council be notified 30 days in advance
of cancellation of the policy; and
         (f)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established the
City Council in amounts sufficient to protect the city and carry out the
purposes and policies of this subchapter.
      (4)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate required
to be filed under M.S. § 300.06, as it may be amended from time to time, as
recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State;
      (5)   A copy of the person’s certificate of authority from the State
Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or federal agency, where
the person is lawfully required to have this certificate from the Commission or
other state or federal agency; and
      (6)   Other information as the city may require.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The applicant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the City Council information
as to changes within 15 days following the date on which the applicant has
knowledge of any change.
(Prior Code, § 720.06)
§ 150.41 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the City Council determines that the applicant has
satisfied the requirements of this subchapter, the City Council shall issue a
permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The City Council may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare, or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use.
(Prior Code, § 720.07)
§ 150.42 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The excavation permit fee shall be established
by the City Council in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs: the
city management cost; degradation cost, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The obstruction permit fee shall be
established by the City Council and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover
the city management cost.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay these fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the City
Council has revoked for a breach as stated in §
150.52 are not refundable.
   (E)   Use of permit fees. All obstruction and excavation permit fees shall
be used solely for city management, construction, maintenance and repair costs
of the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 720.08)
§ 150.43 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of extraordinary circumstances beyond the
control of the permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
150.46.
   (B)   Patching and restoration. The permittee shall patch its own work. The
city may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to
restore the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, during the 36 months
following the restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee’s improper
backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing,
all costs associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall, at the time of application for an excavation permit, post a
construction performance bond in an amount determined by the City Council to be
sufficient to cover the cost of restoration. If within 36 months after
completion of the restoration of the right-of-way, the City Council determines
that the right-of-way has been property restored, the surety on the restoration
bond shall be released. The release shall in no way relieve the permittee of
its ongoing obligation to restore, patch and/or patching the right-of-way under
the Rules of the State Public Utilities Commission.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the material specified by the City Council.
The City Council shall have the authority to prescribe the manner and extent of
the restoration, and may do so in written procedures of general application or
on a case-by-case basis. The City Council in exercising this authority shall be
guided by the following standards and considerations:
      (1)   The number, size, depth and duration of the excavations,
disruptions or damage to the right-of-way;
      (2)   The traffic volume carded by the right-of-way; the character of the
neighborhood surrounding the right-of-way;
      (3)   The pre-excavation condition of the right-of-way; the remaining
life expectancy of the right-of-way affected by the excavation;
      (4)   Whether the relative cost of the method of restoration to the
permittee is in reasonable balance with the prevention of an accelerated
depreciation of the right-of-way that would otherwise result from the
excavation, disturbance or damage to the right-of-way;
      (5)   The likelihood that the particular method of restoration would be
effective in slowing the depreciation of the right-of-way that would otherwise
take place; and
      (6)   Any uniform statewide standards adopted by the State Public
Utilities Commission.
   (D)   Guarantees.
      (1)   By choosing to repair the right-of-way itself, the permittee
guarantees its work and shall maintain it for 36 months following its
completion. During this 36-month period, it shall, upon notification from the
City Council, correct all restoration work to the extent necessary, using the
method required by the City Council.
      (2)   The work shall be completed within five calendar days of the
receipt of notice from the City Council, not including days during which work
cannot be done because of circumstances constituting force or days when work is
prohibited as unseasonable or unreasonable under §
150.46.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the City Council, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the City
Council, the City Council at its option may do the work. In that event, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of
restoring the right-of-way. If permittee fails to pay as required, the city may
exercise its rights under the construction performance bond.
   (F)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § 720.09) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.44 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Applicants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   With city projects. Applicants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the City Council, whether or not it is a joint
application by two or more applicants or a single application, are not required
to pay the obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee.
   (C)   Shared fees. Applicants who apply for permits for the same obstruction
or excavation, which the City Council does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. Applicants must agree
among themselves as to the portion each will pay and indicate the same on their
applications.
(Prior Code, § 720.10)
§ 150.45 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must, before working in that greater
area, make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be done before the permit
end date.
(Prior Code, § 720.11) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.46 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws.
      (1)   Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not relieve permittee of its
duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses and authority and to pay
all fees required by any other city, county, state or federal rules, laws or
regulations. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of local, state and
federal laws, including M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09 (“One Call Excavation
Notice System”) and M.S. Chapter 237, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   A permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all
applicable codes and established rules and regulations, and is responsible for
all work done in the right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who
does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
City Council, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when
seasonally prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for the work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural, free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles may not
be parked within or next to a permit area. The loading or unloading of trucks
next to a permit area is prohibited unless specifically authorized by the
permit.
(Prior Code, § 720.12)
§ 150.47 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The City Council may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this subchapter or if the City Council determines that the denial
is necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
(Prior Code, § 720.13)
§ 150.48 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with the engineering
standards adopted by the State Public Utilities Commission or other applicable
local requirements, in so far as they are not inconsistent with the PUC rules.
(Prior Code, § 720.14)
§ 150.49 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall notify the City Council and furnish a completion
certificate in accordance with the Rules of the State Public Utilities
Commission.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work site available to the
City Council, its designee and all others as authorized by law for inspection
at all reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the
work.
   (C)   Authority of City Council.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the City Council may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public. The City Council may issue an order to the
applicant for any work which does not conform to the applicable standards,
conditions or codes.
      (2)   The order shall state that failure to correct the violation will be
cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after issuance of the
order, the applicant shall present proof to the City Council that the violation
has been corrected.
      (3)   If this proof has not been presented within the required time, the
City Council may revoke the permit pursuant to §
150.52.
(Prior Code, § 720.15)
§ 150.50 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. 
      (1)   Each applicant shall immediately notify the City Council of any
event regarding its equipment which it considers to be an emergency. The
applicant may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the
emergency. Within two business days after the occurrence of the emergency, the
applicant shall apply for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated
therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself
into compliance with this subchapter for the actions it took in response to the
emergency.
      (2)   If the City Council becomes aware of an emergency regarding an
applicant’s equipment, the City Council may attempt to contact the local
representative of each applicant affected, or potentially affected, by the
emergency. In any event, the City Council may take whatever action it deems
necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the
applicant whose equipment occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, pay double the normal fee for
the permit, pay double all the other fees required by the Legislative Code,
deposit with the City Council the fees necessary to correct any damage to the
right-of-way and comply with all of the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 720.16) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.51 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the City
Council of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Prior Code, § 720.17)
§ 150.52 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation or any condition of the permit. A substantial breach by the
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city of its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to maintain the required bonds and/or insurance;
      (5)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; or
      (6)   The failure to correct a condition indicated on an order issued
pursuant to §
150.49.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the City Council determines that the
permittee has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any
statute, ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the City
Council shall make a written demand upon the permittee to remedy this
violation. The demand shall state that continued violations may be cause for
revocation of the permit. Further, a substantial breach, as stated above, will
allow the City Council, at its discretion, to place additional or revised
conditions on the permit.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. 
      (1)   Within 24 hours of receiving notification of the breach, the
permittee shall contact the City Council with a plan, acceptable to the City
Council, for its correction.
      (2)   The permittee’s failure to so contact the City Council, or the
permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan, or the permittee’s failure to
reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be cause for immediate revocation
of the permit.
      (3)   Further, the permittee’s failure to so contact the City Council, or
the permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan, or the permittee’s
failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall automatically place
the permittee on probation for one full year.
(Prior Code, § 720.18)
§ 150.53 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each applicant shall provide to the City Council
mapping information defined in the Rules of the State Public Utilities
Commission.
   (B)   Telecommunication equipment. Information on existing facilities and
equipment of telecommunications right-of-way users need only be supplied in the
form maintained by the telecommunications right-of-way user.
   (C)   Trade secret information. At the request of any applicant, any
information requested by the City Council, which qualifies as a “trade-secret”
under M.S. § 13.37(b), as it may be amended from time to time, shall be treated
as trade secret information as detailed therein. With respect to the provisions
of mapping data, the city may consider unique circumstances from time to time
required to obtain mapping data.
(Prior Code, § 720.19)
§ 150.54 LOCATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Undergrounding. Unless otherwise permitted by an existing franchise or
M.S. § 216B.34, as it may be amended from time to time, or unless existing
above-ground equipment is repaired or replaced, new construction and the
installation of new equipment and replacement of old equipment shall be done
underground or contained within buildings or other structures in conformity
with applicable codes.
   (B)   Limitation of space. To protect health and safety, the City Council
shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
equipment within the right-of-way if there is insufficient space to accommodate
all of the requests of applicants or persons to occupy and use the right-of-
way. In making these decisions, the City Council shall strive to the extent
possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-of-way,
but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest, the
public’s needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the right-
of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the protection of
existing equipment in the right-of-way and future city plans for public
improvements and development projects which have been determined to be in the
public interest.
(Prior Code, § 720.20)
§ 150.55 RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   A right-of-way user shall promptly and at its own expense, with due regard
for seasonal working conditions, permanently remove and relocate its facilities
in the right-of-way when it is necessary to prevent interference, and not
merely for the convenience of the city, in connection with a present or future
city use of the right-of-way for a public project; the public health or safety;
or the safety and convenience of travel over the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 720.21)
§ 150.56 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. §§ 216D.01 through
216D.09 (“One Call Excavation Notice System”), as it may be amended from time
to time, before the start date of any right-of-way excavation, each applicant
who has equipment in the area to be excavated shall mark the horizontal and
approximate vertical placement of all this equipment. Any applicant whose
equipment is less than 20 inches below a concrete or asphalt surface shall
notify and work closely with the excavation contractor to establish the exact
location of its equipment and the best procedure for excavation.
(Prior Code, § 720.22)
§ 150.57 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   (A)   When the City Council does work in the right-of-way and finds it
necessary to maintain, support or move an applicant’s equipment to protect it,
the City Council shall notify the local representative as early as is
reasonably possible. The costs associated therewith will be billed to that
applicant and must be paid within 30 days from the date of billing.
   (B)   Each applicant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any
facilities in the right-of-way, which it or its equipment damages. Each
applicant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any damage to the
facilities of another applicant caused during the city’s response to an
emergency occasioned by that applicant’s equipment.
(Prior Code, § 720.23)
§ 150.58 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   (A)   Reservation of right. If the city vacates a right-of-way which
contains the facilities of an applicant, and if the vacation does not require
the relocation of applicant or permittee facilities, the city shall reserve, to
and for itself and all applicants having equipment in the vacated right-of-way,
the right to install, maintain and operate any equipment in the vacated right-
of-way and to enter upon the right-of-way at any time for the purpose of
reconstructing, inspecting, maintaining or repairing the same.
   (B)   Relocation of facilities. If the vacation requires the relocation of
applicant or permittee equipment; and if the vacation proceedings are initiated
by the applicant or permittee, the applicant or permittee must pay the
relocation costs; if the vacation proceedings are initiated by the city, the
applicant or permittee must pay the relocation costs unless otherwise agreed to
by the city and the applicant or permittee; or if the vacation proceedings are
initiated by a person or persons other than the applicant or permittee, the
other person or persons must pay the relocation costs.
(Prior Code, § 720.24)
§ 150.59 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By accepting a permit under this subchapter, an applicant or permittee
agrees as follows.
   (A)   Limitation of liability. By reason of the grant of a right-of-way
permit, the city does not assume any liability for injuries to persons, damage
to property or loss of service claims by parties other than the applicant or
the city, or for claims or penalties of any sort resulting from the
installation, presence, maintenance or operation of facilities by permittees or
activities of permittees.
   (B)   Indemnification. 
      (1)   As a condition for the use of a permit issued by the city
authorizing permittee to obstruct or excavate on or within a right-of-way for
the installation, maintenance or repair of permittee’s facilities in a right-
of-way, the permittee shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the city from
all liability or claims of liability for bodily injury or death to persons or
property damage in which the claims: allege negligent or otherwise wrongful
acts or omissions of the permittee or its employees, agents or independent
contractors in installing, maintaining or repairing the permittee’s facilities;
or are based on the city’s negligence or otherwise wrongful act or omission in
issuing the permit or in failing to properly or adequately inspect or enforce
compliance with the terms, conditions or purposes of the permit or permits
granted to permittee. Applicant or permittee shall indemnify, keep and hold the
city free and harmless from any and all liability on account of injury to the
person or damage to property occasioned by the issuance of permits or by the
construction, maintenance, repair, inspection or operation of applicant’s or
permittee’s facilities located in the right-of-way.
      (2)   Except to the extent authorized in division (B)(1) above regarding
the issuance of permits or inspection of enforcement thereof, or unless
otherwise provided in an applicable franchise agreement, the city shall not be
indemnified for losses or claims occasioned by the negligent or otherwise
wrongful act or omission by the city.
   (C)   Defense. 
      (1)   If a suit is brought against the city under circumstances where the
applicant or permittee is required to indemnify, the applicant or permittee, at
its sole cost and expense, shall defend the city in the suit if written notice
of the suit is promptly given to the applicant or permittee within a period in
which the applicant or permittee is not prejudiced by the lack or delay of
notice.
      (2)   If the applicant or permittee is required to indemnify and defend,
it shall thereafter have control of the litigation, but the applicant or
permittee may not settle the litigation without the consent of the city.
Consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
      (3)   This division (C) is not, as to third parties, a waiver of any
defense, immunity or damage limitation otherwise available to the city.
      (4)   In defending an action on behalf of the city, the applicant or
permittee is entitled to assert in an action every defense, immunity or damage
limitation that the city could assert in its own behalf.
(Prior Code, § 720.25)
§ 150.60 ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. 
      (1)   A right-of-way user who has determined to discontinue its
operations in the city must either:
         (a)   Notify the City Council that the users obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way have been lawfully assumed by another person; or
         (b)   Submit a proposal for transferring ownership of the facilities
to the city.
      (2)   If the user proceeds under division (A)(1)(b) above, the city may
either purchase the facilities, require the user, at its own expense, to remove
it or require the user to post a bond in a sufficient amount to reimburse the
city for its reasonably anticipated costs to be incurred in removing these
facilities.
   (B)   Removal. Any user who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way
shall remove them from the right-of-way, at its own expense, during the next
scheduled excavation, unless this requirement is waived by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 720.26)
§ 150.61 APPEAL RIGHTS.
   A telecommunications right-of-way user that: has been denied registration;
has been denied a right-of-way permit; has had its right-of-way permit revoked;
or believes that the fees imposed on the user by the local government unit do
not conform to the requirements of this subchapter or M.S. Chapter 237, as it
may be amended from time to time, shall have the appeal rights provided by M.S.
§ 237.163, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 720.27)
§ 150.62 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   A right-of-way user, applicant or permittee’s rights are subject to
the regulatory and police powers of the city to adopt and enforce general
ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
   (B)   Any conflict between the provisions of a registration or of a right-
of-way permit and any other present or future lawful exercise of the city’s
regulatory or police powers shall be resolved in favor of the latter.
(Prior Code, § 720.28)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of any of the provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.08 shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 700.09)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING AND HOUSING
Section
State Building Code
   
151.01   Codes adopted by reference
   
151.02   Application, administration and enforcement
   
151.03   Permits and fees
   
151.04   Building Code optional chapters
   
151.05   Modification to State Fire Code
   
151.06   Modification to State Plumbing Code
   
151.07   Completion time
   
151.08   Building permits
Construction
   
151.20   Pole construction buildings
   
151.21   Incompatible structures
   
151.22   Protection of adjoining property
Mobile Home Parks
   
151.35   Purpose
   
151.36   Definitions
   
151.37   General provisions
   
151.38   Permits
   
151.39   Annual permits
   
151.40   Inspection
   
151.41   Environmental, open space and access requirements
   
151.42   Service building and other community service facilities
   
151.43   Refuse handling
   
151.44   Insect and rodent control
   
151.45   Fire protection
   
151.46   Responsibilities of the park management
General Housing Requirements
   
151.60   Purpose
   
151.61   Address numbers
 
   
151.99   Penalty
STATE BUILDING CODE
§ 151.01 CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The State Building Code, as adopted by the Commissioner of Administration
pursuant to M.S. Chapter 16B.50 to 16B.75, as they may be amended from time to
time, including all of the amendments, rules and regulations established,
adopted and published from time to time by the State Commissioner of
Administration, through the Building Codes and Standards Division is adopted by
reference with the exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically
adopted in this chapter. The State Building Code is incorporated in this
chapter as if fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 900.01) (Res. 04-3, passed 3-8-2004)
§ 151.02 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall be
in accordance with the State Building Code. The code shall be enforced within
the extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 362B.121, subd. 1, as it may be
amended from time to time, when so established by this subchapter.
   (B)   The code enforcement agency of this municipality is called the
Department of Building Safety.
   (C)   This code shall be enforced by the State Certified Official designated
by the city to administer the code, M.S. § 362B.133, subd. 1, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 900.002) (Res. 04-3, passed 3-8-2004)
§ 151.03 PERMITS AND FEES.
   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as authorized in
M.S. § 362B.121, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. Permit fees
shall be assessed for work governed by this code in accordance with the fee
schedule adopted by the city, by resolution. In addition, a surcharge fee shall
be collected on all permits issued for work governed by this code in accordance
with M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 900.03) (Res. 04-3, passed 3-8-2004)
§ 151.04 BUILDING CODE OPTIONAL CHAPTERS.
   (A)   The State Building Code, established pursuant to M.S. §§ 16B.59 to
16B.75, as they may be amended from time to time, allows the municipality to
adopt by reference and enforce certain optional chapters of the most current
edition of the State Building Code.
   (B)   The following optional provisions identified in the most current
edition of the State Building Code are adopted and incorporated as part of the
Building Code for this municipality: Chapter 1335, Flood-proofing Regulations,
Minn. Rules parts 1335.0600 to 1335.1200.
(Prior Code, § 900.045) (Res. 04-3, passed 3-8-2004)
§ 151.05 MODIFICATION TO STATE FIRE CODE.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, with the approval of the Council shall
have power to modify any of the provisions of the State Fire Code which is
adopted as a part of the State Building Code, but only to enact more stringent
requirements as authorized by M.S. § 299F.011, as it may be amended from time
to time. The particulars of any modification shall, upon adoption by the
Council, be entered upon the records of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 900.05)
§ 151.06 MODIFICATION TO STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   The State Plumbing Code, adopted as a part of the State Building Code, is
amended as follows.
   (A)   Surface drains. No surface drainage shall discharge into the sanitary
sewer system of the city.
   (B)   Cast iron pipe. Cast iron must be used from the property line to the
sewer main.
   (C)   Copper pipe. Three-fourths K copper shall be used for water flowage
from the residence to the water main.
   (D)   Ditch. No ditch shall be filled until inspected by the Building
Inspector.
   (E)   Culverts in developments with rural section. No building permit shall
be issued for any parcel served by a roadway with a rural ditch section until
the applicant installs or is served by a driveway culvert of a type and in a
manner to avoid obstruction of water flow, as determined by the City Engineer,
or until the City Engineer determines that no culvert is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 900.06)
§ 151.07 COMPLETION TIME.
   Any residence for which a building permit has been issued under this
subchapter shall be completed and ready for occupancy according to the approved
plans and specifications within one year following issuance of the permit,
unless otherwise authorized by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 900.07)
§ 151.08 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No person shall erect, alter, move, demolish or remove a building or
structure as covered by this subchapter without first obtaining a permit from
the city. A use permit is permissive only as it relates to this subchapter and
is applied for and obtained at the discretion of the city. No liability shall
be incurred by the city upon granting of a permit. Any person applying for a
building permit, filing a petition for an amendment to this subchapter,
requesting a variance, conditional use permit or a change in regulations within
any district shall pay a prescribed fee according to a schedule established by
the City Council. Fees shall be set annually by the City Council by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 900.08)
CONSTRUCTION
§ 151.20 POLE CONSTRUCTION BUILDINGS.
   Pole construction buildings shall not be permitted in a residential
district. Pole construction buildings may be erected in other districts upon
the application for and issuance of a special use permit for the pole building
construction by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 910.01)
§ 151.21 INCOMPATIBLE STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Referral by Inspector and Clerk-Treasurer. Whenever an application is
filed with the city for a building permit for any structure to be built,
enlarged or altered within, or moved in or into the city, and the Building
Inspector finds that the application, plans and specifications, and the plot
plan submitted (the application papers) comply with the code of the city except
that the application papers provide for a structure, the exterior design,
appearance and functional plan which the Building Inspector and the Clerk-
Treasurer feel may be so at variance or so similar with the exterior design,
appearance and functional plan of structures in the neighborhood and same
zoning district of the proposed structure as to cause a material depreciation
generally to property in the neighborhood, then the Building Inspector shall,
within ten days after the receipt of the application papers, file the papers
and the opinion in writing, signed by the Building Inspector and the Clerk-
Treasurer, with the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Call of hearing. Within seven days after the receipt of the
application papers and opinions, the Clerk-Treasurer shall give notice to each
member of the Planning Commission and to the public by publication in the
official paper, and to any other persons the Clerk-Treasurer deems advisable,
of a hearing to be held by the Planning Commission with respect to the
application. The notice shall state the purpose of the hearing and the location
of the structure. Notice to the applicant shall be by registered mail at least
three days in advance of the hearing; provided appearance at the hearing shall
constitute a waiver of any defect in the notice of the hearing. The hearing on
the application shall be held not less than one week nor more than two weeks
after receipt of the application by the city.
   (C)   Hearing and findings. Before or during the hearing, each member of the
Planning Commission may view the premises upon which the structure is located
or to be located, and at the hearing, the Commission shall examine the
application papers and hear the applicant. It may also hear any citizens of the
neighborhood and other individuals who request to be heard. Within 48 hours of
the close of the hearing, the Commission shall, pursuant to a majority vote of
all the members of the Commission, file written findings of the fact. It shall
determine whether the exterior design, appearance and functional plan of the
structure is or is not at a variance or so similar with the exterior design,
appearance and functional plan of structures constructed or in the course of
construction in the neighborhood of the proposed structures, (in the same
zoning district) as to cause material depreciation generally to property in the
neighborhood. The Commission shall further make a recommendation that the
application be accordingly granted or denied. The finding, determination and
recommendation shall be in writing, signed on behalf of the Planning Commission
by its chairperson. The Clerk-Treasurer shall file a certified copy of the
finding, determination and recommendation with the Building Official and shall
mail a copy to the applicant. The application papers, the written opinions and
the findings, determinations and recommendations of the Planning Commission
shall immediately be presented by the Clerk-Treasurer to the Council at its
next regular meeting. Further action with respect to the application shall be
held in abeyance pending order and direction of the Council. In this case, no
permit with respect to the application shall be issued except upon order and
direction of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 910.02)
§ 151.22 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   Any person making or causing an excavation to be made a depth of 12 feet or
less, below grade, shall protect the excavation so that the soil of adjoining
properly will not cave in or settle or shall be liable for the expense of
underpinning or extending the foundation on adjoining property where the
excavation necessitates this work.
(Prior Code, § 910.03)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 151.35 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to maintain property values and otherwise
promote the health, safety, order, convenience and general welfare by defining
a certain class of manufactured housing as mobile homes, by regulating the
location and use of mobile homes and by establishing minimum standards for the
design, construction, alteration and enlargement of mobile home parks;
providing for the inspection of mobile home parks, the licensing of operators
of the mobile home parks and fixing penalties for violations of the provisions
in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 920.01)
§ 151.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor private way used by vehicles on a mobile home lot.
   INSPECTOR. The City Building Inspector.
   MOBILE HOME. A manufactured home that is less than 20 feet wide over at
least 30 feet of its length in the erected mode, suitable for a year-round
occupancy, and containing the same water supply, waste disposal and electrical
conveniences as immobile housing and subject to tax or registration under state
law, and having no foundation other than wheels, jacks or skirtings. Width
measurement shall not take account of overhangs and other projections beyond
the principal exterior walls.
   MOBILE HOME COURT. Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which two or
more occupied mobile homes are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, and shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure
used or intended for use as an accessory building or part of the equipment of
the MOBILE HOME COURT. The term MOBILE HOME COURT shall include the terms
trailer park, trailer court and mobile home park.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed and
designated for the accommodation of one mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PAD. The part of an individual lot which has been reserved for
the placement of one mobile home unit.
   PARK MANAGER. The person who owns or has charge, care or control of the
mobile home park.
   PARK STREET. A private way which affords principal means of access to
individual mobile home lots or auxiliary buildings.
   PERMIT. A written permit or certification issued by the Building Inspector
permitting the construction, alteration and extension of any permanent
structure within the mobile home park under provisions of this subchapter and
regulations issued under this subchapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, public or private
association, corporation or any other legal entity.
   SERVICE BUILDING. A structure housing toilet, lavatory, laundry and other
facilities as may be required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 920.02)
§ 151.37 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Mobile homes regulated. Unless meeting the requirements of the
applicable district zoning regulation, no mobile home shall be permitted on any
lot or parcel within the city which is not located within an approved mobile
home park as established in this subchapter.
   (B)   Mobile homes prohibited. Mobile homes shall be prohibited that:
      (1)   Do not conform to the requirements of state law;
      (2)   Are in any unsanitary condition or have an exterior in bad repair;
or
      (3)   Are structurally unsound and do not protect the inhabitants against
the elements.
   (C)   Outdoor camping prohibited. There shall be no outdoor camping anywhere
in a mobile home park.
   (D)   Sales lot prohibited. No sales lot for new or used mobile homes shall
be permitted within a mobile home park.
   (E)   Purchase as a condition of rent. No person shall be required to
purchase a mobile home from any particular person or place as a condition of
rental of a lot.
   (F)   Advertising. Advertising shall be limited to one sign not to exceed 25
square feet with lighting, height and location as approved by the governing
body. Signs shall be set back at least 15 feet from the front lot line.
   (G)   Registry required. The operator of every mobile home park shall
maintain a registry of the mobile home park showing:
      (1)   The name and address of each guest or permanent resident;
      (2)   The make, type and license number of each mobile home; and
      (3)   The date each unit entered and departed the park.
   (H)   Building permits required. All buildings shall require a building
permit.
   (I)   Skirting. The area beneath a mobile home in a mobile home park shall
be skirted or enclosed; provided that the enclosure must be designed to provide
an opening for maintenance and inspection purposes.
   (J)   Clothes lines. Laundry and clothes shall be hung out to dry only on
lines located in approved areas established and maintained exclusively for that
purpose in mobile home parks.
   (K)   Sewer and water. A mobile home park shall be provided with an approved
centralized sewage disposal system and water supply system, both of which must
meet the minimum requirements of applicable local and state regulations. If a
municipal system exists, and it is feasible, the mobile home park shall be
required to use the public system. The capacity of the water supply shall be
sufficient to provide for fire protection in addition to an adequate household
supply system for the park.
   (L)   Screening. All mobile home parks shall be screened in an aesthetic
manner to protect the privacy of adjacent lot owners.
   (M)   Appearance. All mobile home parks and campgrounds shall be constructed
and maintained in a manner compatible with the appearance and use of the
surrounding area.
(Prior Code, § 920.03) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.38 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
alter or expand any mobile home park or to construct, alter or expand any
permanent structure as part of a mobile home park within the limits of the city
without first obtaining a permit issued by the Council. The permit shall
contain the name of the person under whose ownership or control the
construction, alteration or expansion is proposed.
   (B)   Application for permits. Each application for a mobile home permit
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The legal description and size in acres of the property proposed
for a mobile home park;
      (3)   A sketch of the existing topography of the property;
      (4)   The number, location and size of all mobile home lots;
      (5)   The location and width of roadways and walkway;
      (6)   The location of all water and sewer lines, including the location
of riser pipes;
      (7)   Plans and specifications of the water supply sewage disposal and
refuse disposal facilities;
      (8)   Plans and specifications of all existing and proposed buildings
constructed or to be constructed within the mobile home park;
      (9)   The location and details of lighting and electrical systems,
including street lighting facilities;
      (10)   A landscaping plan approved by the Council;
      (11)   A plan of the park ground area and recreation facilities;
      (12)   A survey by a registered surveyor of the boundaries of the
proposed park; and
      (13)   A plan showing existing and proposed streets designed to
accommodate the traffic generated by the proposed park.
   (C)   Permit fee. The applicant shall pay to the city a fee in an amount as
set by the Council from time to time. When a permit is granted under this
subchapter, the applicant shall pay an additional fee per mobile home lot as
set forth by the Council. This fee shall be imposed for the purpose of
defraying expenses incurred by the city in the administration of this
subchapter and the fee shall not be construed to be a license.
   (D)   Review of applications. The Planning Commission shall review all
applications for permits issued under this subchapter. The Planning Commission
shall hold hearings as it may deem proper with respect to the application. The
findings and recommendation of the Planning Commission shall be forwarded to
the Council for appropriate action.
   (E)   Denial. Any person whose application for permit under this subchapter
has been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on this matter
before the Council.
   (F)   Permits rendered void. Any special use permit for a mobile home park
issued under this subchapter shall be conditioned upon compliance with the
terms of this subchapter and any conditions attached to the permit. Any
substantial and continued violation of these terms after issuance of the permit
shall void the permit.
   (G)   Occupancy. After issuance of a permit, the park may be constructed,
but may not be occupied until it has been inspected by the Inspector and an
occupancy permit issued. An occupancy permit may be issued by the Inspector
when it is found that construction is complete and that all terms of the permit
have been complied with. A temporary occupancy permit may be issued for and
upon completion of a portion of the park, allowing occupancy of the completed
portion if the developer or applicant furnished the city with a public
contractors performance bond, with corporate surety in an amount equal to the
total cost of the uncompleted portion of the project. A bond shall be subject
to approval by the Council and filed with the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 920.04) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.39 ANNUAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any
mobile home park within the limits of the city unless the person holds a valid
permit issued annually by the Clerk-Treasurer in the name of the person for the
specific mobile home park. All applications for permits shall be made to the
Council. The Council shall issue a permit upon compliance by the applicant with
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Transfer of permit. Every person holding a permit shall give notice in
writing to the Inspector within 72 hours after having sold, transferred, given
away or otherwise disposed of interest in or control of any mobile home park.
The notice shall be made to the Inspector to include the name and address of
the person succeeding to the ownership or control of the mobile home park. Upon
application in writing for transfer of the permit, the permit shall be
transferred.
   (C)   Application and renewal of permit.
      (1)   Application for original permit shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the
application, together with a fee as set forth in the city fee schedule to cover
the inspections required in this subchapter, and shall contain the applicant’s
name and address, the location and legal description of the mobile home park
and a site plan of the mobile home park, showing all mobile home lots,
structures, roads, walkways and other service facilities.
      (2)   Applications for the renewal of a permit shall be made in writing
by the holders of the permit; shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth in the
city fee schedule for the inspections required in this subchapter; and shall
contain any change in the information which has occurred since the original
permit was issued or the latest renewal granted.
   (D)   Suspension and revocation. Whenever, upon inspection of any mobile
home park, the Inspector finds that conditions or practices exist which are in
violation of this code, the Inspector shall give notice in writing to the
person to whom the permit was issued. The notice shall state the nature of the
conditions or practices which constitute a violation under this subchapter, and
stating that the conditions or practices shall be corrected within a period of
30 days following the delivery of the notice by the Inspector. The date of
mailing the notice by certified mail shall constitute delivery. Upon expiration
of the 30-day period, the Inspector shall reinspect the mobile home park in
violation and, if the conditions or practices have not been corrected, shall
notify the Council and the Council will give notice in writing of the
suspension of the permit to the person to whom the permit was issued.
   (E)   Time within which to comply. If the work necessary to correct the
conditions or practices which are the subject of a notice cannot be completed
in the 30-day period, written extensions may be granted by the Council if
reasons for hardship prevail and can be verified.
   (F)   Hearing. Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in
connection with the enforcement of any provisions of these regulations may
request and shall be granted a hearing of the same before the Council.
   (G)   Emergency. Whenever the Inspector finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health, the Inspector may,
without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of an
emergency and requiring that action be taken as the Inspector may deems
necessary to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding any other provision of these
regulations, the order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom an
order is directed shall comply with it immediately. Upon petition to the
Inspector, the person shall be afforded a hearing before the Planning
Commission as soon as possible. Pending the hearing, the emergency orders shall
be in full force and effect until and unless later removed, modified or changed
by the Inspector, Planning Commission or the Council.
(Prior Code, § 920.05) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.40 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Compliance with subchapter. The Inspector is authorized and directed
to make inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with
these regulations, including the power to enter at reasonable times upon any
private or public property for inspections.
   (B)   Registration record. The Inspector, Chief of Police or their duly
authorized representatives, shall have the power to inspect the register
containing a record of all residents of the mobile home park.
   (C)   Access. It shall be the duty of the park management to give the
Inspector free access to all lots at reasonable times for the purpose of
inspection.
   (D)   Repairs. It shall be the duty of every occupant of a mobile home park
to give the owner of the mobile home park or the owner’s agent or employee
access to any part of the mobile home park at reasonable times for the purpose
of making the repairs or alterations necessary to effect compliance with this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 920.06) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.41 ENVIRONMENTAL, OPEN SPACE AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. The condition of all soil, ground water level,
drainage and topography shall not create hazards to the property or the health
and safety of the occupants. The site should not be exposed to objectionable
smoke, noise, odors or other adverse influences and no portion subject to
unpredictable or sudden flooding.
   (B)   Soil and ground cover requirements. Exposed ground surfaces in all
parts of the mobile home park shall be paved or covered with stone, screenings
or other solid materials or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable
of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust.
   (C)   Site drainage requirements. The ground surface in all parts of the
mobile home park shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a
safe, efficient manner.
   (D)   Use requirements. No part of any park shall be used for non-
residential purposes, except uses that are required for the direct servicing
and well-being of park residents and for the management and maintenance of the
park or other uses that are permitted in single-family dwellings and approved
by the park management.
   (E)   Required separation between mobile homes. Unless separated by
fireproof structures approved by the Fire Marshal and the Council, mobile homes
shall be separated from each other and from other buildings and structures by
at least 20 feet or the sum of the heights of both trailer units, whichever is
greater. Unless separated by fireproof structures approved by Fire Marshal and
the Council, mobile homes placed end-to-end must have minimum clearance of 15
feet; an accessory structure such as an awning, cabana, storage cabinet,
carport, windbreak or porch which has a floor area exceeding 25 feet, and has
an opaque top or roof, shall for purposes of all separation requirements, be
considered to be a part of the mobile home; and minimum lot sizes shall not be
less than 5,000 square feet.
   (F)   Open space. A minimum of 500 square feet per mobile home shall be
provided for definable play areas and open space within the mobile home park.
Areas of open space and play area shall not be areas included within any
setback nor shall they include any areas of less than 20 feet in length or
width.
   (G)   Required setbacks, buffer strips and screening. All mobile homes shall
be located at least 30 feet from any property line abutting upon a public
street or highway and at least 20 feet from other property boundary lines;
there shall be a minimum distance of 15 feet between the mobile home stand and
abutting park street; and all mobile home parks located adjacent to
residential, recreational, commercial or industrial land uses shall provide
screening such as fences, shrubs, trees, along the property boundary line
separating the park and these uses, and shall be maintained in a neat and
orderly fashion.
   (H)   Average density. Notwithstanding the type of development concept used,
the maximum density shall be seven mobile homes per acre.
   (I)   Accessory buildings. One accessory building for storage of equipment
and refuse is required and the accessory building shall be a minimum of 48
square feet and designed of water-resistant material that will enhance the
general appearance of the lot.
   (J)   Park street system and car parking.
      (1)   General requirements. All mobile home parks shall be provided with
safe and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads to
each mobile home lot. The access shall be provided by streets, driveways or
other means.
      (2)   Park entrance. Entrances to mobile home parks shall be designed to
minimize congestion and hazards and allow free movement of traffic on adjacent
streets. No parking shall be permitted on the park entrance street for a
distance of 30 feet from its point of beginning.
      (3)   Internal streets. Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic and, in any case, shall meet the following
minimum requirements.
         (a)   All streets except minor streets shall be a minimum of 30 feet
in width from face of curb to face of curb. Streets without curb shall be
considered minor streets.
         (b)   Dead-end streets shall be limited in length to 500 feet and
shall be provided at the closed end with a cul-de-sac having an outside roadway
diameter of at least 100 feet. All dead-end streets shall be marked with
approved signs at the entrance to the dead-end street.
      (4)   Street construction and design standards.
         (a)   Pavements. All streets shall be provided with a paved concrete
or bituminous surface. Pavement edges shall be protected to prevent raveling of
the wearing surface and shifting of the pavement base. Street surfaces shall be
maintained reasonably free of cracks, holes and other hazards.
         (b)   Grades. Longitudinal grades of all streets shall range between
0.4% and 8%. Transverse grades (crown) of all streets shall be sufficient to
insure adequate transverse drainage.
         (c)   Storm sewers. If conditions warrant, an adequate storm sewer
system shall be provided to dispose of all runoff water. The storm sewer system
shall be connected to existing city storm sewer systems upon city approval.
         (d)   Intersections. Within 50 feet of an intersection, streets shall
be at right angles. Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall
be avoided.
         (e)   Car parking. For all new mobile home parks, or additions to
present parks, off-street parking areas for the use of park occupants and
guests are required. The areas shall be furnished at a rate of at least two car
spaces for each mobile home lot, of which at least one-half of the spaces may
be in compounds. All off-street parking areas shall be paved concrete or
bituminous surface.
   (K)   Walks.
      (1)   General requirements. All parks shall be provided with safe,
convenient, all-season pedestrian access of adequate width for intended use,
durable and convenient to maintain, between individual mobile homes, the park’s
streets and all community facilities provided for park residents. Sudden
changes in alignment and gradient shall be avoided.
      (2)   Common walk system. A common walk system shall be provided and
maintained between locations where pedestrian traffic is concentrated. The
common walks shall have a minimum width of four and one-half feet.
      (3)   Individual walks. All mobile homes shall be connected to common
walks, to paved streets or to paved driveways or parking spaces connecting to a
paved street. The individual walks shall have a minimum width of two feet.
   (L)   Patio. Each mobile home lot shall have a patio of four-inch concrete
with minimum dimensions of nine feet by 20 feet.
   (M)   Trees. A minimum of one tree per lot is required. In open area and
park area, a minimum of 20 trees per acre is required.
(Prior Code, § 920.07) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.42 SERVICE BUILDING AND OTHER COMMUNITY SERVICE FACILITIES.
   (A)   General. The requirements of this subchapter shall apply to service
buildings, recreation buildings and other community service facilities such as
management offices, repair shops, storage areas, sanitary facilities, laundry
facilities, indoor recreation areas and commercial uses supplying essential
goods or services for the exclusive use of park occupants.
   (B)   Structural requirements for buildings. All portions of the structure
shall be properly protected from damage by ordinary uses and by decay,
corrosion; termites and other destructive elements. Exterior portions shall be
of these materials and be so constructed and protected as to prevent entrance
or penetration of moisture and weather.
   (C)   Barbecue pits, fireplaces, stoves and incinerators. Cooking shelters,
barbecue pits, fireplaces, woodburning stoves and incinerators shall be so
located, constructed and maintained and used as to minimize fire hazards and
smoke nuisances both on the property on which used and on neighboring property
and shall comply with all appropriate ordinances, laws or other regulations.
(Prior Code, § 920.08) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.43 REFUSE HANDLING.
   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home parks
shall be so constructed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage,
insect breeding, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
(Prior Code, § 920.09) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.44 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Buildings. The grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained
free of insects and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and
other measures to control insects and rodents shall conform with the
requirements of the State and County Health Code.
   (B)   Parks. Parks shall be maintained free of accumulation of debris which
may provide rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and other
pests.
   (C)   Storage areas. Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent
rodent harborage.
   (D)   Screens. Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists,
all exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately
screened with wire mesh or other suitable materials.
   (E)   Brush, weeds and grass. The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be
controlled to prevent harborage of ticks, chiggers and other noxious insects.
Parks shall be so maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy,
poison oak, poison sumac and other noxious weeds considered detrimental to
health. Open areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any
description.
(Prior Code, § 920.10) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.45 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Litter, rubbish and the like. Mobile home parks shall be kept free of
litter, rubbish and other flammable material.
   (B)   Fire extinguishers. Portable fire extinguishers rated for Classes A, B
and C fires shall be kept visible and in service buildings and at other
locations conveniently maintained in good operating condition. Their capacity
shall not be less than ten pounds.
   (C)   Fires. Fires shall be made only in stoves, indoor incinerators and
other equipment intended for these purposes.
   (D)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be installed if the park water
supply system is capable to serve them in accordance with the following
requirements.
      (1)   The water supply system shall permit the operation of standard city
fire hydrants.
      (2)   Fire hydrants, if provided, shall be located within 300 feet of any
mobile home, service building or other structure in the park.
(Prior Code, § 920.11)
§ 151.46 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PARK MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   General requirements. The person to whom a permit for a mobile park is
issued shall operate the park in compliance with this subchapter and shall
provide adequate supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment
in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Inspection of register. The park manager shall keep the required
register available for inspection at all times by law enforcement officers,
public health officers and other officials whose duty necessitates acquisition
of the information contained in the register. The register record for the
occupant registration shall not be destroyed for a period of three years
following the date of departure of the registrant from the park.
(Prior Code, § 920.12)
GENERAL HOUSING REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.60 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide a system by which the owners of
all principal buildings located in the city are required to post the address
number assigned their principal building in specified locations in accordance
with this subchapter, and to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare and to further the implementation of the emergency services.
(Prior Code, § 930.01)
§ 151.61 ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Requirements. The current address numbers for all homes and other
buildings shall be displayed on houses or principal buildings in Arabic
numerals not less than four inches high, and of contrasting color to the
background.
   (B)   Clearly visible. Numbers shall be clearly visible from the nearest
street.
   (C)   Posted sign. In those cases where the principal building is obscured
from the view from the street address by accessory buildings, trees, shrubbery
or other visual obstruction, the number shall be displayed from a permanent
mounting on the property, clearly visible from the street, displayed
prominently in Arabic numerals not less than four inches high and of
contrasting color to the background.
   (D)   Mailboxes. Those wishing to display their physical address in
conjunction with their mailing address on their mailbox, must display the
physical address above the mailing address, in numerals not less than two
inches high, of alight reflective material and of contrasting color to the
background.
(Prior Code, § 930.02)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor offense
punishable by up to 90 days in jail and/or a fine of $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 900.04) (Res. 04-3, passed 3-8-2004)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Zoning provisions adopted by reference
Zoning of Adult Uses
   
152.15   Purpose
   
152.16   Findings
   
152.17   Definitions
   
152.18   Classification
   
152.19   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
152.20   Exhibition of sexually explicit films, videos or live entertainment in
viewing rooms
   
152.21   Escort agencies
   
152.22   Nude model studios
   
152.23   Public nudity
   
152.24   Prohibition against children in a sexually oriented business
   
152.25   Hours of operation
   
152.26   Exemptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 ZONING PROVISIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City Council adopts the zoning ordinance and zoning map as presented
during the public hearing on February 26, 2001, by reference, as if fully set
forth herein, and authorizes the City Clerk-Treasurer to file the adopted
ordinance and map with the County Recorder as directed by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1000.02) (Res. 01-01, passed 3-12-2001; Res. 02-17, passed 10-
28-2002; Res. 03-01, passed 1-13-2003; Res. 06-07, passed 6-12-2006; Res. 07-
12, passed 7-23-2007; Res. 08-11, passed 5-12-2008; Res. 09-16, passed 11-23-
2009; Res. 10-09, passed 3-22-2010; Res. 10-32, passed 10-11-2010; Res. 12-14,
passed 7-23-2012; Res. 16-07, passed 5-23-2016; Ord. 24-05, passed 11-12-2024;
Ord. 24-06, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 24-07, passed 11-12-2024)
ZONING OF ADULT USES
§ 152.15 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare
of the citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations
to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented
businesses within the city. The provisions of this subchapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of
any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly,
it is not the intent nor effect of this subchapter to restrict or deny access
by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or
to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of
this subchapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
(Prior Code, § 1100.01) (Ord. passed 10-15-2002)
§ 152.16 FINDINGS.
   Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of adult uses in
other communities and also on findings found in the “Report of Attorney
General’s Working Group On The Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses”,
(June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the Council finds the following.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses in the city lend themselves to ancillary
unlawful and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the
operators of the establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to
make the owners of these establishments responsible for the activities that
occur on their premises.
   (B)   Certain employees of sexually oriented businesses defined in this
subchapter as adult theaters and cabarets engage in a higher incidence of
certain types of sexually oriented behavior at these businesses than employees
of other establishments.
   (C)   Sexual acts, including masturbation, oral and anal sex, occur at
sexually oriented businesses, especially those that provide private or semi-
private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos or live sex shows, as
defined under this subchapter as adult book stores, adult novelty shops, adult
video stores, adult motion picture theaters or adult arcades.
   (D)   Offering and providing this space encourages these activities which
create unhealthy conditions.
   (E)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades and other
sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of these sexually oriented businesses.
   (F)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis B and salmonella infections.
   (G)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and the operators of those facilities to self-regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities.
   (H)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found in
the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view “adult” oriented
films.
   (I)   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics, which
should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
   (J)   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting on
premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theaters.
   (K)   The general welfare, health and safety of the citizens of the city
will be promoted by the enactment of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1100.02) (Ord. passed 10-15-2002)
§ 152.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated, slug operated or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, video or digital disc players or other image producing
devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at
any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. 
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations that are characterized by the depiction
or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas”; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use
in connection with “specified sexual activities”.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas” and still be categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or
ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt these
commercial establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which are characterized by the depiction of description of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities”; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the exposure of “specified
anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities”.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction of or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way that advertises the availability of this type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown that are characterized by the
depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nude or live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis, whether or not
the person is designated an employee, independent contractor, agent or
otherwise and whether or not the person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the operator of this business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person; or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity or who displays “specified anatomical areas” and is provided to
be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the state or a
college, junior college or university supported entirely or in part by public
taxation; a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernible turgid state.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter
center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or countries;
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the
applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, or copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) and (2) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist
on October 15, 2002.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership control.
(Prior Code, § 1100.03) (Ord. passed 10-15-2002)
§ 152.18 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Prior Code, § 1100.04) (Ord. passed 10-15-2002)
§ 152.19 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses are a permitted use in the “A”
Agricultural District, as delineated on the city’s zoning map, provided they
meet the following setback standards.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business must be setback a minimum of 1,000 feet
from the following uses:
      (1)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities; and
      (2)   A public or private educational facility including, but not limited
to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, junior colleges and
universities. SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not include the
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school.
   (C)   A sexually oriented business must be setback a minimum of 500 feet
from the following uses:
      (1)   A boundary of a residential district as defined in the city’s
zoning ordinance and map; a public park or recreational area which has been
designated for park or recreational activities including but not limited to a
park, playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field,
basketball or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas or
other similar public land within the city that is under the control, operation
or management of the city park and recreation authorities;
      (2)   The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as defined
in the city’s zoning map;
      (3)   An entertainment business which is oriented primarily toward
children or family entertainment; and/or
      (4)   A licensed premises pursuant to the alcoholic beverage control
regulations of the state.
   (D)   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of another sexually
oriented business.
   (E)   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure or portion thereof, or the increase of
floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure or
portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
   (F)   For the purpose of divisions (B) or (C) above, measurement shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part
of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a use listed in divisions (B) or (C) above.
Presence of a city, county or other political subdivision boundary, shall be
irrelevant for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements
of this subchapter.
   (G)   For purposes of division (D) above, the distance between any two
sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to the intervening structures or objects or political boundaries, from
the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located.
   (H)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on October 15, 2002
that is in violation of divisions (A) through (G) above shall be deemed a
nonconforming use. The nonconforming use will be permitted to continue unless
terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 180 days
or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or
altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If two or more
sexually oriented businesses are within 1,000 feet of one another and are
otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually oriented business which was
first established and continually operating at a particular location is the
conforming use and the later established businesses is/are nonconforming.
(Prior Code, § 1100.05) (Ord. passed 10-15-2002)
§ 152.20 EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS, VIDEOS OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN
VIEWING ROOMS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, live entertainment or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements.
      (1)   It is the duty of the business owner of the premises to ensure that
at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at all
times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (2)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access to for any purpose
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If
the premises has two or more manager’s stations, then the interior of the
premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access to
for any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required
in this division (A) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s
station.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the business owner to ensure that the view
area specified above remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains, partitions,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials.
      (4)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (5)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one footcandle as measured at the
floor level.
      (6)   No openings of any kind are allowed to exist between viewing rooms
or booths.
      (7)   The owner or manager shall, during each business day, regularly
inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or
holes exist.
      (8)   The business owner shall cause all floor coverings in viewing
booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      (9)   The business owner shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling
surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or be permanently covered by,
nonporous, easily cleanable material.
      (10)   No wood, plywood, composition board or other porous material shall
be used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under this section commits a misdemeanor if he
or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Prior Code, § 1100.06) (Ord. passed 10-15-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.21 ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 1100.07) (Ord. passed 10-15-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.22 NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if the person
appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model
studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (B) if the person
under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view or visible to any
other person.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if the person appears in a state of nudity
or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 1100.08) (Ord. passed 10-15-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.23 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person who knowingly and
intentionally, in a sexually oriented business, appears in a state of nudity or
depicts specified sexual activities.
   (B)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person who knowingly or intentionally
in a sexually oriented business appears in a semi-nude condition unless the
person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at least ten feet from any
patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet from the floor.
   (C)   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while semi-nude in a
sexually oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or
customer or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity to any
employee, while the employee is semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
(Prior Code, § 1100.09) (Ord. passed 10-15-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.24 PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   A person commits a misdemeanor if the person knowingly allows a person under
the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
(Prior Code, § 1100.10) (Ord. passed 10-15-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.25 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 1100.11) (Ord. passed 10-15-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.26 EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution that a person appearing in a state of nudity
did so in a modeling class operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state; a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (C)   In a structure:
      (1)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
      (2)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Prior Code, § 1100.12) (Ord. passed 10-15-2002)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
77       2-4-1919    Annexing certain lands, lots and blocks to the city
105      5-4-1948    Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
106      5-4-1948    Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
111      4-16-1958   Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
112      6-3-1958    Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
113      6-3-1958    Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
115      9-20-1958   Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
116      9-20-1958   Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
118      9-8-1959    Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
119      9-8-1959    Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
120      4-5-1960    Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
123      12-5-1961   Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
124      6-4-1963    Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
130      7-5-1966    Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
131      10-1-1968   Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
148      6-7-1976    Extending the corporate limits to include certain
                     unplatted land
149      8-9-1976    Extending the corporate limits to include certain
                     unplatted land
163      12-11-1978  Extending the corporate limits to include certain
                     unplatted land
164      5-29-1984   Petition for annexation and incorporation
-        12-13-2004  Annexing certain territory therein described to the city
15-03    7-13-2015   Annexing land
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
24-01    - -         Electric franchise with Northern States Power Company
24-02    - -         Implementing electric service franchise fee on Northern
                     States Power Company
169      - -         Amends cable franchise with Wes-Tel, Inc.
57       2-6-1896    Permits certain persons to erect telephone poles, string
                     wires thereon and maintain a telephone system
76       12-3-1918   Electric franchise with Electric Light & Power Company
-        7-8-1927    Assignment of franchise ordinance 76 from Electric Light
                     and Power Company to Northern States Power Company
161      10-31-1983  Cable communications franchise with Wes-Tel, Inc.
165      9-6-1987    Electric franchise with Northern States Power Company
-        5-13-2002   Natural gas franchise with Aguila Inc.
04-07    7-12-2004   Electric franchise with Northern States Power Company
05-01    4-25-2005   Cable franchise with Crystal Communications, Inc. DBA
                     HickoryTech
12-01    10-22-2012  Implementing an electric service franchise fee on Northern
                     States Power Company
12-02    10-22-2012  Establishing a franchise fee on gas utility companies
13-01    10-28-2013  Amending cable communications franchise with Midcontinent
                     Communications
14-03    12-8-2014   Amending cable communications franchise with Midcontinent
                     Communications
15-01    3-9-2015    Amending the cable communications franchise with
                     Midcontinent Communications
19-02    7-8-2019    Cable communications franchise with Midcontinent
                     Communications
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cite Code Section
M.S. Cite                      Code Section
13.37(b)                       150.53
Chapter 13D                    30.04
14.57 to 14.69                 110.39
15.73, subd. 3                 150.36
Chapter 16B.50 to 16B.75       151.01
16B.59 to 16B.75               151.04
16B.69                         151.99
18G.07                         91.02
Chapter 18K                    111.02
18.77, subd. 8                 91.37
18.83, subd. 2                 91.37
84.872, subd. 2                72.21
Chapter 88                     91.55
89.001                         91.02
89.01                          91.02
89.51—89.64                  91.02
103G.291                       50.165
115.01, subd. 5                51.001
115.07                         51.001
144.382, subd. 4               50.166
160.22                         91.02
168B.011, subd. 3              91.20
                               70.01;
Chapter 169                    70.99;
                               72.35;
                               72.38
169.045, subd. 7               72.40
169.522                        72.40
169.999                        10.98
169A.03                        72.17
216B.02, subd. 4               150.36
216B.02, subd. 6               150.36
216B.097                       50.137
216B.34                        150.54
216D.01—216D.09              150.46
216D.01—216D.09              150.56
Chapter 237                    150.46;
                               150.61
237.162                        150.36
237.162, subd. 8(2)            150.36
237.163, subd. 5               150.61
Chapter 238                    150.36
260B.198                       130.99
299F.011                       151.05
301B.01                        150.36
300.06                         150.40
326B.148                       151.03
Chapter 329                    114.03
340A.301, subd. 7              110.15
340A.409                       110.57
340A.414                       110.56
340A.801                       110.57
Chapter 342                    111.01
342.01                         111.02;
                               130.02
342.11                         111.07
342.13                         111.09;
                               111.10
342.19                         111.10
342.21                         111.10
342.64, subd. 2, paragraph (b) 111.02
347.50—347.55                90.001;
                               90.023
347.51                         90.023
358.05                         32.30
362B.121, subd. 1              151.02;
                               151.03
362B.133, subd. 1              151.02
366.011                        32.45
366.012                        32.45
Chapter 412                    33.01
412.151                        50.166
412.591, subd. 2               33.01
412.601—412.751              50.166
415.01                         32.45
429.061                        91.02;
                               91.24
                               91.02;
429.101                        91.24;
                               91.43
437.02                         114.03
443.015                        52.02
444.075                        51.130
444.075, subd. 2               51.132; 53.01
444.075, subd. 3a              51.135
463.15 et seq.                 91.23
463.15—463.26                91.01
463.17                         91.23
Chapter 475                    51.132; 53.03
514.67                         91.01
626.862                        10.20
631.48                         10.99
                               
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2025 Code
Prior Code 2025 Code
200.01     30.01—
           30.04
200.02     30.15—
           30.18
200.03     30.35;
           30.36
200.04     30.50;
           30.51
200.05     30.19
200.06     30.65;
           30.66
200.07     30.20
200.08     30.21
210.01     32.01—
           32.12
210.02     32.25—
           32.30
           31.01—
210.03     31.12;
           31.99
210.04     31.25—
           31.30
210.05     31.45—
           31.47
215.01     32.45
215.02     32.46
215.03     32.47
215.04     32.48
215.05     32.49
215.06     32.50
215.07     32.51
215.08     32.51
230.01     92.01
230.02     92.02
230.03     92.03
230.04     92.04
230.05     92.05
230.06     92.06
230.07     92.07
230.08     92.08
230.09     92.09
230.10     92.10
230.11     92.11
230.12     92.12
230.13     92.13
230.14     92.99
300.01     90.001
           90.021—
300.02     90.025;
           90.999
300.03     90.002
300.04     90.003
300.05     90.041—
           90.046
300.06     90.004
300.07     90.060—
           90.063
300.08     90.005
300.09     90.006
300.10     90.085
300.11     90.086—
           90.089
300.12     90.007
300.13     90.999
310.01     112.01
310.02     112.02
310.03     112.99
340.01     112.15
340.02     112.16
340.03     112.17
340.04     112.99
350.01     113.01
350.02     113.02
350.03     113.03
350.04     113.04
350.05     113.05
350.06     113.06
350.07     113.07
350.08     113.08
350.09     113.09
350.10     113.10
350.11     113.11
350.12     113.12
350.13     113.99
400.01     110.30
400.02     110.31
400.03     110.32
400.04     110.33
400.05     110.34
400.06     110.35
400.07     110.36
400.08     110.37
400.09     110.38
400.10     110.39
400.11     110.99
410.01     110.50
410.02     110.51
410.03     110.52
410.04     110.53
410.05     110.54
410.06     110.55
410.07     110.56
410.08     110.57
410.09     110.58
410.10     110.59
420.01     110.01
420.02     110.02
420.03     110.03
420.04     110.04
420.05     110.05
420.06     110.06
420.07     110.07
420.08     110.08
420.09     110.09
420.10     110.10
420.11     110.11
420.12     110.12
420.13     110.13
420.14     110.14
420.15     110.15
420.16     110.16
420.17     110.17
420.18     110.18
430.01     110.99
550.01     52.01
550.02     52.02
550.03     52.03
550.04     52.99
600.01     70.01
600.02     70.02
600.03     70.03
600.04     70.04
600.05     70.05
600.06     70.06
600.07     70.07
600.08     70.08
600.09     70.09
600.10     70.25—
           70.27
600.11     70.40—
           70.44
600.12     70.10
600.13     70.99
610.01     71.01
610.02     71.02
610.03     71.03
610.04     71.04
610.05     71.05
610.06     71.06
610.07     71.07
610.08     71.08
610.09     71.09
610.10     71.10
610.11     71.11
610.12     71.12
610.13     Ch. 73, Sched. I
610.14     70.11
610.15     70.12
610.16     71.13
610.17     Ch. 73, Sched. I
610.18     71.14
610.19     71.99
620.01     72.15
620.02     72.16
620.03     72.17
620.04     72.18
620.05     72.19
620.06     72.20
620.07     72.21
620.08     72.22
620.09     72.23
620.10     72.24
620.11     72.40
630.01     72.01
630.02     72.40
640.01     72.35
           72.36—
640.02     72.40;
           72.99
700.01     150.01
700.02     150.02
700.03     150.03
700.04     150.04
700.05     150.05
700.06     150.06
700.07     150.07
700.08     150.08
700.09     150.99
710.01     150.20
710.02     150.21
710.03     150.22
710.04     150.23
720.01     150.35
720.02     150.36
720.03     150.37
720.04     150.38
720.05     150.39
720.06     150.40
720.07     150.41
720.08     150.42
720.09     150.43
720.10     150.44
720.11     150.45
720.12     150.46
720.13     150.47
720.14     150.48
720.15     150.49
720.16     150.50
720.17     150.51
720.18     150.52
720.19     150.53
720.20     150.54
720.21     150.55
720.22     150.56
720.23     150.57
720.24     150.58
720.25     150.59
720.26     150.60
720.27     150.61
720.28     150.62
800.01     50.001
800.02     50.002
800.03     50.003
800.04     50.004
800.05     50.030—
           50.035
800.06     50.050—
           50.052
800.07     50.065—
           50.071
800.08     50.005
800.09     50.006
800.10     50.007
800.11     50.008
800.12     50.009
800.13     50.010
800.14     50.011
800.15     50.012
800.16     50.165—
           50.172
800.17     50.013
800.18     50.085—
           50.087
800.19     50.014
800.20     50.015
800.21     50.100
800.22     50.101
800.23     50.102
800.24     50.115—
           50.120
800.25     50.135—
           50.137
800.26     50.150;
           50.151
810.01     51.001
810.02     51.015—
           51.017
810.03     51.030—
           51.034
810.04     51.045;
           51.046
810.05     51.060—
           51.073
810.06     51.085—
           51.100
810.07     51.002;
           51.999
810.08     51.115—
           51.118
810.09     51.999
830.01     51.155
830.02     51.156
830.03     51.157
830.04     51.158
830.05     51.159
900.002    151.02
900.01     151.01
900.03     151.03
900.04     151.99
900.045    151.04
900.05     151.05
900.06     151.06
900.07     151.07
900.08     151.08
910.01     151.20
910.02     151.21
910.03     151.22
920.01     151.35
920.02     151.36
920.03     151.37
920.04     151.38
920.05     151.39
920.06     151.40
920.07     151.41
920.08     151.42
920.09     151.43
920.10     151.44
920.11     151.45
920.12     151.46
930.01     151.60
930.02     151.61
1000.02    152.01
1100.01    152.15
1100.02    152.16
1100.03    152.17
1100.04    152.18
1100.05    152.19
1100.06    152.20
1100.07    152.21
1100.08    152.22
1100.09    152.23
1100.10    152.24
1100.11    152.25
1100.12    152.26
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Passed Date Code Section
Res. No. Passed Date Code Section
00-14    11-13-2000  92.07
00-15    11-27-2000  110.52
01-01    3-12-2001   152.01
02-8     4-22-2002   31.47
02-17    10-28-2002  152.01
03-01    1-13-2003   152.01
03-22    10-14-2003  113.11
                     151.01—
04-3     3-8-2004    151.04;
                     151.99
06-07    6-12-2006   152.01
07-12    7-23-2007   152.01
08-11    5-12-2008   152.01
09-07    9-22-2008   33.02
09-16    11-23-2009  152.01
10-09    3-22-2010   152.01
10-13    5-10-2010   110.33
10-14    5-10-2010   33.02
10-32    10-11-2010  152.01
12-14    7-23-2012   152.01
16-07    5-23-2016   152.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Passed Date Code Section
Ord. No. Passed Date Code Section
18-01    - -         50.165—
                     50.172
24-01    - -         TSO Table II
24-02    - -         TSO Table II
169      - -         TSO Table II
57       2-6-1896    TSO Table II
76       12-3-1918   TSO Table II
77       2-4-1919    TSO Table I
-        7-8-1927    TSO Table II
105      5-4-1948    TSO Table I
106      5-4-1948    TSO Table I
111      4-16-1958   TSO Table I
112      6-3-1958    TSO Table I
113      6-3-1958    TSO Table I
115      9-20-1958   TSO Table I
116      9-20-1958   TSO Table I
118      9-8-1959    TSO Table I
119      9-8-1959    TSO Table I
120      4-5-1960    TSO Table I
123      12-5-1961   TSO Table I
124      6-4-1963    TSO Table I
130      7-5-1966    TSO Table I
131      10-1-1968   TSO Table I
148      6-7-1976    TSO Table I
149      8-9-1976    TSO Table I
163      12-11-1978  TSO Table I
161      10-31-1983  TSO Table II
164      5-29-1984   TSO Table I
-        10-13-1998  30.20
-        8-9-1999    92.06
-        5-13-2002   TSO Table II
-        10-15-2002  152.15—
                     152.26
-        10-28-2002  30.20
04-07    7-12-2004   TSO Table II
-        12-13-2004  TSO Table I
05-01    4-25-2005   TSO Table II
08-02    7-14-2008   33.02
                     110.36;
08-03    9-22-2008   110.52;
                     110.56
08-05    10-27-2008  71.13;
                     Ch. 73, Sched. I
09-01    4-27-2009   32.51
11-01    4-11-2011   90.999
12-01    10-22-2012  TSO Table II
12-02    10-22-2012  TSO Table II
13-01    10-28-2013  TSO Table II
14-01    1-27-2014   Ch. 73, Sched. I
                     90.021—
14-02    10-27-2014  90.025;
                     90.999
14-03    12-8-2014   TSO Table II
15-01    3-9-2015    TSO Table II
15-02    3-23-2015   113.01
15-03    7-13-2015   TSO Table I
15-04    7-27-2015   90.041—
                     90.046
17-01    3-13-2017   110.56
17-02    4-10-2017   Ch. 73, Sched. I
                     72.35—
18-02    5-29-2018   72.40;
                     72.99
19-02    7-8-2019    TSO Table II
19-03    9-9-2019    71.11;
                     Ch. 73, Sched. I
590      8-28-2023   130.02;
                     130.99
                     113.25—
360      9-25-2023   113.30;
                     113.99
205.01   6-24-2024   33.01
24-03    11-12-2024  51.130—
                     51.142
                     111.01—
24-04    11-12-2024  111.10;
                     111.99
24-05    11-12-2024  152.01
24-06    11-12-2024  152.01
24-07    11-12-2024  152.01
25-01    5-12-2025   Ch. 73, Sched. I
25-02    8-11-2025   70.13
                    
 
