NORTH SAINT PAUL, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-16 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 848, passed 9-16-2025
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2256.gif]
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.20   Administrative offense
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of North Saint Paul, Minnesota. The term CITY when used in
this code may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Ramsey County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Manager for public inspection. The City Manager shall provide a copy for sale
for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this Minnesota
Basic Code, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.20 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE.
   (A)   Purpose. Administrative offense procedures established pursuant to
this section are intended to provide the public and the city with an informal,
cost- effective and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for
violations of certain Code provisions. The procedures are intended to be
voluntary on the part of those who have been charged with administrative
offenses. At any time prior to the payment of the administrative penalty as is
provided for in division (I), the individual may withdraw from participation in
the procedures, in which event, the city may bring criminal charges. In
addition, the city, in its discretion, may choose not to initiate an
administrative offense and may bring criminal charges in the first instance. In
the event a party participates in the administrative offense procedures but
does not pay the monetary penalty which may be imposed, the city may seek to
collect the costs of the administrative offense procedures as part of any
subsequent criminal sentence, in the event the party is charged and is
adjudicated guilty of the criminal violation.
   (B)   Administrative offense defined. An administrative offense is a
violation of a provision of this Code and is subject to the administrative
penalties set forth in a schedule of offenses and penalties referred to in
division (I), hereafter.
   (C)   Notice. Any officer of the City Police Department, or any other person
employed by the city, authorized in writing by the City Manager, and having
authority to enforce this code, shall, upon determining that there has been a
violation, notify the violator, or in the case of a vehicular violation, attach
to the vehicle a notice of the violation. Said notice shall set forth the
nature, date and time of violation, the name of the official issuing the
notice, and the amount of the scheduled penalty.
   (D)   Payment. Once such notice is given, the alleged violator may, within
seven days of the time of issuance of the notice, pay the amount set forth on
the schedule of penalties for the violation, or may request a hearing in
writing, as is provided for hereafter. The penalty may be paid in person or by
mail, and payment shall be deemed to be an admission of the violation.
   (E)   Hearing. Any person contesting an administrative offense pursuant to
this section may, within seven days of the time of issuance of the notice,
request a hearing by a hearing officer, who shall forthwith conduct an informal
hearing to determine if a violation has occurred. The hearing officer shall
have authority to dismiss the violation or reduce or waive the penalty. If the
violation is sustained by the hearing officer, the violator shall pay the
penalty imposed.
   (F)   Hearing Officer. A city employee designated in writing by the City
Manager shall be the hearing officer. The hearing officer is authorized to hear
and determine any controversy relating to administrative offenses provided for
in this section.
   (G)   Failure to pay. In the event a party charged with an administrative
offense fails to pay the penalty, criminal charges may be brought against the
alleged violator in accordance with applicable statutes. If the penalty is
paid, or if the individual is found not to have committed the administrative
offense by the hearing officer, no such charge may be brought by the City for
same violation.
   (H)   Disposition of penalties. All penalties collected pursuant to this
section shall be paid to the City Finance Director and shall be deposited to
the city’s General Fund.
   (I)   Offenses and penalties. Offenses which may be charged as
administrative offenses and the penalties for such offenses shall be
established by ordinance of the City Council from time to time. Copies of such
ordinances shall be maintained in the office of the City Manager.
   (J)   Subsequent offenses. In the event a party is charged with a subsequent
administrative offense within a 12-month period of paying that administrative
penalty for a same or similar offense, the subsequent administrative penalty
shall be increased by 25% above the previous administrative penalty.
(Ord. 647, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
TITLE III: GOVERNANCE
Chapter
   
30.   CITY COUNCIL
   
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
   
32.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   
33.   CITY POLICY ON ABANDONED PROPERTY
   
34.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Time and place of meetings
   
30.02   Presiding officer
   
30.03   Quorum
   
30.04   Order of business
   
30.05   Powers of Mayor
   
30.06   Speaking
   
30.07   Motions and resolutions
   
30.08   Voting
   
30.09   Committees
   
30.10   Passed ordinances
   
30.11   Petitions to be read
   
30.12   Admission to Council meetings
   
30.13   Suspension of rules
   
30.14   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.15   Objections on procedural matters
   
30.16   Adjournment
   
30.17   Special meetings
   
30.18   Minutes
   
30.19   Terms of office
   
30.20   Salaries; Mayor and Councilpersons
§ 30.01 TIME AND PLACE OF MEETINGS.
   The City Council shall have regular sessions on the first and third Tuesday
of each month at 6:30 p.m. If the date falls on a holiday, the Council shall
elect an appropriate day for rescheduling the meeting or cancel the meeting.
Adjourned and special sessions may be held at any time the Council deems
proper. All meetings shall be held in the City Hall.
(`89 Code, § 4.010)
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council. In the absence of
the Mayor, the Acting Mayor shall preside. In the absence of both, the members
shall elect one of their number a temporary chair. The Acting Mayor and
temporary chair, when occupying the place of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as other members.
(`89 Code, § 4.020)
§ 30.03 QUORUM.
   At all meetings of the Council a majority of the Council members elected
shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a minority may adjourn from day
to day and may compel the attendance of absentees by a fine not exceeding $10
for each offense, unless a reasonable excuse be offered.
(`89 Code, § 4.030)
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   At the hour appointed for meeting, the members shall be called to
order by the Mayor, and in the Mayor’s absence by the Acting Mayor, and the
absence of both, by the City Manager. The City Manager shall call the roll,
note the absentees and announce whether a quorum be present. In the absence of
the City Manager, the Mayor shall appoint a Secretary pro tem.
   (B)   Upon the appearance of a quorum, the Council shall proceed to business
as set forth in the Agenda.
(`89 Code, § 4.040) (Am. Ord. 728, passed 12-17-2013)
§ 30.05 POWERS OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum and shall decide questions of
order subject to an appeal to the Council. The Mayor may make motions, second
motions or speak on any questions; provided, however, that in order to do so,
upon demand of any one Council member, the Mayor shall vacate the chair and
designate a Council member to preside temporarily. The Mayor shall be entitled
to vote like other members of the Council.
(`89 Code, § 4.050)
§ 30.06 SPEAKING.
   Every member, previous to his or her speaking, shall address the chair and
shall not proceed until he or she has been recognized by the chair. He or she
shall indulge in no personalities and shall confine his or her remarks to the
matter under debate. No member shall speak more than twice on any question, nor
more than five minutes each time without unanimous consent of the Council. A
member called to order shall immediately suspend his or her remarks until the
point of order is decided by the chair.
(`89 Code, § 4.060)
§ 30.07 MOTIONS AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   Every motion except to adjourn, postpone, reconsider, commit, lay on
the table or for the previous question shall be reduced to writing if the chair
or any member requires it; when made and seconded, it shall be stated by the
chair or if written shall be read by the City Manager. A motion may be
withdrawn before decision or amendment, any disposition thereof has been made
or a vote taken thereon.
   (B)   When a question is under debate no motion shall be entertained, unless
to adjourn or lay on the table, to act on the previous questions, to postpone,
to commit or to amend, which several motions shall have precedence in the order
in which they are named and the first three shall be decided without debate.
(`89 Code, § 4.070)
§ 30.08 VOTING.
   (A)   Votes of the members on any business coming before the Council may be
voice vote, standing vote or in such other manner of voting as may signify the
intention of the members.
   (B)   Every member shall vote in such case unless the Council by majority
vote shall excuse a member from voting or the member shall have an interest in
the matter being voted upon, in which case the member shall not vote.
   (C)   All questions shall be put in the order in which they are moved,
except in case of privileged questions.
   (D)   The previous question shall be put in these words: “Shall the main
question now be put?” It shall be admitted on demand of any two members and
until decided shall preclude all amendments and debate of the main question.
(`89 Code, § 4.080)
§ 30.09 COMMITTEES.
   Committees shall be appointed by the Mayor, and the first person named on
the committee shall be chair thereof. It shall be the duty of each committee to
act promptly and faithfully in all matters referred to it and to make its
report at the next meeting of the Council.
(`89 Code, § 4.090)
§ 30.10 PASSED ORDINANCES.
   After an ordinance shall have passed, a complete and accurate copy as
amended shall be made by the City Manager and shall be signed by the Mayor, or
in his or her absence by the Acting Mayor, and deposited with the City Manager,
who shall attest, seal, number, file and record or place the same permanently
in the ordinance book. Entry of the complete ordinance as amended directly into
the ordinance book with original signatures and seal thereon shall be
compliance with this section. The affidavit of publication shall be permanently
inserted in the ordinance book after each ordinance.
(`89 Code, § 4.100)
§ 30.11 PETITIONS TO BE READ.
   Petitions and other papers addressed to the Council shall be read by the
City Manager upon presentation of the same to the Council.
(`89 Code, § 4.110)
§ 30.12 ADMISSIONS TO COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   All sessions of the Council shall be public unless closure is specifically
authorized by the Open Meeting Law, M.S. Chapter 13D, as it may be amended from
time to time. No person, other than the Mayor and other members of the Council,
shall be admitted within the bar of the Council, except city officers. No
person other than a member shall address the Council, except with the consent
of the members present or by a vote of a majority of the members present. The
Council may enforce order at the Council meeting in any matter it deems
sufficient.
(`89 Code, § 4.120)
§ 30.13 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   These rules, or any of them, may be temporarily suspended by consent of a
majority of all Council members and shall not be repealed, altered or amended,
unless by concurrence of majority of the whole Council and upon notice given at
two preceding meetings.
(`89 Code, § 4.130)
§ 30.14 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   In all points not covered by this chapter, the Council shall be governed in
its procedure by Robert’s Rules of Order, current edition, unless otherwise
decided by the Council.
(`89 Code, § 4.140)
§ 30.15 OBJECTIONS ON PROCEDURAL MATTERS.
   The foregoing rules are adopted to facilitate the transaction of the Council
business and functions. They should not be permitted to defeat or hinder the
plainly expressed intent and desire of the Council. Informal compliance and
substantial performance shall be sufficient under the foregoing rules in the
absence of objection reasonably taken. Objection is declared not to have been
reasonably taken as to procedural matters provided for herein if a Council
member present at a meeting fails to object during the meeting and request
compliance with these rules, and such objection shall not be reasonably taken
if taken by an absent member later than the next regular meeting after the
proceedings to which objection is made.
(`89 Code, § 4.150)
§ 30.16 ADJOURNMENT.
   The Council may at any time by a majority vote of those present adjourn from
time to time to a specific date and hour whether or not a quorum is present.
(`89 Code, § 4.160)
§ 30.17 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or by any two members of the
City Council upon at least 24 hours written notice to each member of the City
Council. This notice shall be mailed to and either delivered personally to each
member or shall be left at the member’s usual place of residence with some
responsible person. Pursuant to M.S. § 16D.04, as it may be amended from time
to time, written notice of any special meeting shall be posted giving the date,
time, place and purpose of the meeting at least three days before the meeting.
Written notice shall be mailed at least three days before the meeting to anyone
who has filed a written request for notice of special meetings. In calculating
the three days, if the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday,
the next regular business day shall be counted as the third day. The only
business which may be discussed and acted upon at the special meeting are those
items contained in the notice of the special meeting.
(`89 Code, § 4.170)
§ 30.18 MINUTES.
   (A)   Minutes of the meeting shall be kept by the City Manager. They shall
be signed by the City Manager and shall constitute an official record of the
Council proceedings. Upon approval of the minutes at a subsequent meeting of
the Council, the Mayor shall sign the minutes. Lack of the Mayor’s signature or
Council approval shall not invalidate the minutes as official records.
   (B)   In the event the City Manager shall fail or decline to amend or change
the minutes, upon informal request, at the time they are submitted for
approval, the Council may by motion carried by majority vote amend the minutes.
Such amending motion shall become a part of the minutes of the subsequent
meeting.
(`89 Code, § 4.180)
§ 30.19 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The term of office of mayor shall be four years until his or her
successor is chosen and qualified.
   (B)   The term of office for a Council member shall be four years and until
their successors are chosen and qualified.
§ 30.20 SALARIES; MAYOR AND COUNCILPERSONS.
   (A)   The annual salary of the Mayor shall be $6,400, which shall be paid at
a rate of $533.33 per month. Beginning on January 1, 2023, the annual salary of
the Mayor shall be $6,900, which shall be paid at a rate of $575 per month.
   (B)   The annual salary of each Council member shall be $5,200, which shall
be paid at a rate of $433.33 per month. Beginning on January 1, 2023, the
annual salary of each Council member shall be $5,700, which shall be paid at a
rate of $475 per month.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing and pursuant to M.S. § 415.11, the
salary of Council Member Thorsen shall be temporarily reduced to zero dollars
until December 31, 2021.
(Ord. 633, passed 10-17-2000; Am. Ord. 795, passed 2-2-2021; Am. Ord. 802,
passed 10-19-2021)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
City Manager
   
31.01   Generally
   
31.02   Appointment of personnel
   
31.03   Control
   
31.04   Attendance at Council meetings
   
31.05   Recommendation of ordinances and resolutions
   
31.06   Financial matters
   
31.07   Code of administrative procedure
   
31.08   Additional duties
   
31.09   Relationship with Council
   
31.10   Assignment of duties
   
31.11   Duties as City Clerk
City Finance Director
   
31.25   Position created
   
31.26   Bookkeeping duties
   
31.27   Finance Director also City Treasurer
   
31.28   Annual audits
   
31.29   Fidelity bond
   
31.30   Additional duties and responsibilities
Fire Department
   
31.40   Generally
Other Departments
   
31.50   Other departments
CITY MANAGER
§ 31.01 GENERALLY.
   The Manager shall have the powers and duties set forth in this chapter. The
City of North St. Paul is a plan B city, City Manager form of government,
meaning the Council has policy-making and legislative authority, but
administration of the government is the Manager’s responsibility.
(`89 Code, § 5.010)
§ 31.02 APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL.
   The Manager shall appoint and remove, except as provided herein, upon the
basis of merit and fitness and subject to any applicable civil service
provisions, the City Manager, all heads of departments and all subordinate
officers and employees; but the appointment and removal of the Attorney shall
be subject to the approval of the Council.
(`89 Code, § 5.030)
§ 31.03 CONTROL.
   The Manager shall exercise control over all departments and divisions of the
City Administration.
(`89 Code, § 5.040)
§ 31.04 ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The Manager shall attend all meetings of the Council with the right to take
part in the discussions but not to vote; but the Council may in its discretion
exclude the Manager from any meetings at which his or her removal is
considered.
(`89 Code, § 5.050)
§ 31.05 RECOMMENDATION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   The Manager shall recommend to the Council for adoption such measures as he
or she may deem necessary for the welfare of the people and the efficient
administration of the affairs of the city.
(`89 Code, § 5.060)
§ 31.06 FINANCIAL MATTERS.
   The Manager shall keep the Council fully advised as to the financial
condition and needs of the city, and he or she shall prepare and submit to the
Council the annual budget.
(`89 Code, § 5.070)
§ 31.07 CODE OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
   The Manager shall, when directed to do so by the Council, prepare and submit
to the Council for adoption an administrative code incorporating the details of
administrative procedure, and from time to time he or she shall suggest
amendments to such code.
(`89 Code, § 5.080)
§ 31.08 ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   The Manager shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the
Minnesota Statutes relating the Optional Plan B Cities or required by
ordinances or resolutions adopted by the Council.
(`89 Code, § 5.090)
§ 31.09 RELATIONSHIP WITH COUNCIL.
   Neither the Council nor any of its members shall dictate the appointment,
discipline or discharge of any person to office or employment by the Manager or
in any manner interfere with the Manager or prevent him or her from exercising
his or her own judgment in the appointment, discipline or discharge of offices
and employees in the administrative service. Except for the purpose of inquiry,
the Council and its members shall deal with and control the administrative
service solely through the Manager. Neither the Council nor any of its members
shall give orders to any subordinate of the Manager, either publicly or
privately.
(`89 Code, § 5.100)
§ 31.10 ASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES.
   The Manager may, by written administrative order, assign any part or all of
the duties and responsibilities of this chapter to designated staff members.
The actions of the staff member under these circumstance shall have the same
force and effect as if taken by the Manager.
(Ord. 761, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 31.11 DUTIES AS CITY CLERK.
   The Manager shall perform the duties of the City Clerk and may appoint a
Deputy Clerk.
(Ord. 761, passed 2-21-2017)
CITY FINANCE DIRECTOR
§ 31.25 POSITION CREATED.
   There is created within the city the position of the City Finance Director.
(`89 Code, § 13.010)
§ 31.26 BOOKKEEPING DUTIES.
   All bookkeeping duties of the City Manager are transferred to the City
Finance Director.
(`89 Code, § 13.020)
§ 31.27 FINANCE DIRECTOR ALSO CITY TREASURER.
   The City Finance Director shall also be the City Treasurer.
(`89 Code, § 13.030)
§ 31.28 ANNUAL AUDITS.
   The financial affairs of the city shall be audited annually, under the
direction of the City Manager.
(`89 Code, § 13.040)
§ 31.29 FIDELITY BOND.
   The City Finance Director shall furnish a fidelity bond to the city in such
amount as the Council shall direct, which shall be paid for by the city.
(`89 Code, § 13.050)
§ 31.30 ADDITIONAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The City Finance Director shall have such other duties and responsibilities
as the City Manager may assign to such position.
(`89 Code, § 13.051)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.40 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Department established. There is hereby established an executive
department of the City of North Saint Paul to be known as the Fire Department.
The head of such department shall be the Fire Chief, who shall be appointed in
accordance with the provisions of City Code.
   (B)   Departmental functions. The department shall be responsible for the
establishment, maintenance and administration of an organized method for fire
fighting, fire prevention inspection, and emergency rescue within the city, and
shall perform the following functions:
      (1)   Take all necessary steps for the extinguishment of fires within the
city, including utilization of all necessary personnel and equipment therefor,
the destruction of any building or structure and the removal of any obstruction
for the purpose of checking or extinguishing any such fire.
      (2)   Possess the police powers necessary to carry out the duties imposed
upon them by law, while engaged in the service of fire extinguishment.
      (3)   Assist in the re-establishment of order in the event of civil
disturbance, disaster or riot or any other declared emergency.
      (4)   Provide for and administer a program for the training of
firefighters.
      (5)   Maintain a record of all fires which occur within the city
requiring the services of the department.
      (6)   Investigate the causes of all fires and provide for written reports
of all suspected arsons.
      (7)   Possess the police powers necessary to carry out the duties imposed
upon them by law, while engaged in the service of fire protection.
      (8)   Inspect all buildings and structures as provided for by the state
fire code, and for the issuance and renewal of certificates of occupancy.
      (9)   Provide emergency rescue and ambulance service.
   (C)   Fire Chief; powers and duties.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall be appointed by the City Manager. The Fire
Chief shall be accountable to the City Manager and, subject to his or her
supervision and control, shall administer the affairs of the department. He or
she shall have general authority and control over all departmental staff and
shall oversee the proper fulfillment of all tasks and duties assigned to the
department. He or she shall have the power to prescribe such rules and
regulations as he or she deems necessary or expedient for the proper operation
of the department and to that end shall keep himself or herself informed of the
latest administrative practices. The Fire Chief with the approval of the City
Manager shall have the power and duty to take all personnel actions, including
hiring, assigning and reassigning employees, including supervisory personnel,
within his or her department and shall supervise their performance.
      (2)   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for:
         (a)   Coordination of all emergency preparedness functions of the
city, compatible with the functions of the federal and state governments and
adjacent political subdivisions.
         (b)   Establishment of policies for effective use of manpower
resources and facilities to deal with any major natural disaster or man-made
incident.
         (c)   Providing for emergency functions to prevent and minimize the
effects of disasters on persons and providing for the emergency repair of
damage to public facilities resulting from enemy attack, fire, flood, tornado,
earthquake, or other natural causes.
OTHER DEPARTMENTS
§ 31.50 OTHER DEPARTMENTS.
   There shall be established in the city the following positions and
departments as deemed necessary by the City Manager with the consent of the
City Council:
   (A)   Police Chief;
   (B)   Community Services Director:
      (1)   Administration;
      (2)   Code Enforcement;
      (3)   Elections;
      (4)   Engineering;
      (5)   Inspections;
   (C)   Public Works Director;
      (1)   Park Maintenance;
      (2)   Street Maintenance;
      (3)   Water and Sewer;
   (D)   Electric Department Director;
   (E)   Recreation/Community Center Director.
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Generally
   
32.02   Open meeting law
   
32.03   Public process
   
32.04   Establishment
   
32.05   Membership
   
32.06   Appointment and terms
   
32.07   Committees and subcommittees
   
32.08   Organization
   
32.09   Time, location and conduct of meetings
   
32.10   Purposes and duties generally
   
32.11   Meeting minutes
   
32.12   Attendance requirements
   
32.13   Continuing education
   
32.14   Compensation
   
32.15   Expenditures
   
32.16   Council liaison
Planning Commission
   
32.25   Establishment of the Planning Commission
   
32.26   Composition
   
32.27   Powers and duties
Environmental Advisory Commission
   
32.45   Establishment of the Environmental Advisory Commission
   
32.46   Composition
   
32.47   Powers and duties
Parks and Recreation Commission
   
32.55   Establishment of the Parks and Recreation Commission
   
32.56   Composition
   
32.57   Powers and duties
Board of Appeals and Adjustment
   
32.65   Establishment of the Board of Appeals and Adjustment
   
32.66   Composition
   
32.67   Powers and duties
Arts and Culture Commission
   
32.75   Establishment of the Arts and Culture Commission
   
32.76   Administration
   
32.77   Composition
   
32.78   Powers and duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 GENERALLY.
   The city shall create and support organizations that enhance community
engagement in the city's decision-making process. All boards and commissions
shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specified
in city ordinance or state law.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.02 OPEN MEETING LAW.
   All meetings of the boards or commissions established under this chapter
shall be held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law, M.S. Chapter 13D, as it
may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.03 PUBLIC PROCESS.
   As part of its obligations and responsibilities, the North St. Paul City
Council recognizes the value of public process. Such public process can be
achieved by citizen-based representation on boards and commissions. Therefore,
from time to time, the City Council shall come to rely on the advice and
consent of its boards and commissions in making its decisions.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.04 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Authority to Establish. Pursuant to M.S. § 412.621, and other such statutes
as are specifically cited, the Council establishes the following boards and
commissions. The City Council has the authority to establish and abolish such
boards and commissions as it deems necessary.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.05 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Regular members. Regular members of boards and commission established
by the Council shall be adult residents or business owners located within the
North St. Paul City limits unless otherwise expressly stated by ordinance.
Members who discontinue legal residency in the city shall automatically be
deemed to have resigned from office as of the date of such discontinuance.
   (B)   Student members. Student members shall be residents located within the
North St. Paul City limits and enrolled full-time in secondary school. Student
members shall be non-voting.
   (C)   Ex officio. The City Council may, in its discretion, appoint other
persons to serve on the board or commission in a non-voting capacity.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.06 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.
   (A)   Appointment. Regular members of boards and commissions shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Student members. Student members shall be appointed by majority vote
of the Council and shall serve terms of membership not to exceed one year per
term.
   (C)   Terms. Board and commission member appointees shall serve staggered
terms of membership not to exceed three years per term, except as noted below,
commencing on the first day of January in the year of the appointment. Upon
expiration of a term, the appointee shall continue until reappointed or a
successor is appointed.
   (D)   Staggered terms. Terms of membership shall be staggered so that no
more than one-half of the terms on a board or commission expire in any
particular year.
   (E)   Resignation and removal. Members may resign voluntarily by letter or
email to the City Clerk or be removed by majority vote of the Council or
pursuant to §
32.05 Membership or §
32.12 Attendance Requirements.
   (F)   Vacancies. Vacancies in membership shall be filled by the Mayor with
the approval of the City Council for the balance of the unexpired term.
   (G)   Oath. Every appointed member shall, before exercising any of his or
her duties, take an oral oath that he or she will faithfully discharge the
duties of the office.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.07 COMMITTEES AND SUBCOMMITTEES.
   (A)   Establishment. A board or commission may, with specific approval of
the Council, establish committees, subcommittees, committees of the whole or
working groups that include members of the board or commission and additional
persons as requested by the board or commission.
   (B)   Scope. A committee, subcommittee, committee of the whole or working
group may not engage in activities, functions, or duties outside the scope of
authority granted to the board or commission by which it was established.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.08 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Chairperson. At the first regular meeting of the calendar year, the
board or commission shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson from among
its appointed members, each for a term of one year. No person shall serve more
than three consecutive one-year terms as Chairperson of a particular board or
commission, unless a challenge is not present then the existing Chairperson may
remain for an additional term.
   (B)   City staff. The City Clerk or Administrator, Building Official, City
Planner, City Engineer, City Attorney, or other city staff may act as staff for
the boards or commissions. The city staff may provide the boards and
commissions with information, memorandums, perform secretarial duties, and may
be responsible for the keeping of records.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.09 TIME, LOCATION AND CONDUCT OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. All board and commission meetings are open meetings
subject to the Minnesota Open Meeting Law and shall be held at a fixed time and
on a fixed date as shall be determined by the board or commission. The City
Clerk shall give notice of all board and commission meetings and locations as
required for meetings of public bodies.
   (B)   Public comment. All board and commission meetings shall include
scheduled time for public comment.
   (C)   Quorum. A simple majority of voting members, appointed and serving,
shall constitute a quorum for any regular or special meeting. If a quorum is
not established or maintained during the course of a meeting, no votes on board
or commission business may be taken except a motion to adjourn or recess.
   (D)   Special meetings. Any board or commission Chairperson, or in the case
of the Chairperson's absence, by the Vice-Chairperson, may call a special
meeting. A special meeting may also be directed by the City Council or Mayor.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.10 PURPOSES AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Scope. All boards and commissions established by the Council shall be
advisory to the Council and shall have the responsibility to:
      (1)   Investigate matters within the scope of the particular board or
commission or as specifically directed by the Council.
      (2)   Communicate the viewpoint or advice of the board or commission to
the City Council.
      (3)   At the direction of the Council, hold hearings, receive evidence,
conduct investigations, and, on the basis of such hearings, evidence and
investigations, make decisions and recommendations to the Council.
   (B)   Annual report. All boards and commissions shall prepare a report to
the City Council by the second Council meeting of each year outlining the
actions and activities during the preceding year.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.11 MEETING MINUTES.
   (A)   Official record. Approved minutes of board or commission proceedings
shall be public record; the city shall retain a copy of the official minutes of
each board or commission meeting in accordance with applicable state law.
   (B)   Recording. Each board or commission shall have meeting minutes
prepared and recorded. Minutes so recorded shall be reviewed and approved by
the board or commission and a copy forwarded to the City Clerk. The manager may
make available city staff members to record and prepare minutes of board and
commission meetings.
   (C)   Distributed to City Council. Official minutes of each board or
commission meeting shall be distributed to the Council prior to the first
regular Council meeting after approval of the minutes by the board or
commission.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.12 ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. To assist boards and commissions in fulfilling their purposes
and duties and to ensure that they are not prevented from doing so by the
repeated absence of their members, the Council hereby establishes an attendance
policy for members serving on boards and commissions.
   (B)   Attendance. Duly appointed members of boards and commissions shall be
required to attend no less than half the official meetings of the board or
commission held within a given calendar year unless specifically excused by the
Chair of such board or commission and said excused absences noted in the
minutes. Failure to attend no less than half of the official meetings within a
given calendar year, without excuse of the Chairperson, shall be considered as
formal notice of resignation from said board or commission. In addition,
failure to attend four- consecutive regular meetings without excuse of the
Chairperson, shall be considered as formal notice of resignation from said
board or commission.
   (C)   Exceptions. The requirements of this subsection shall not apply to
attendance at special meetings, or of meetings of committees or subcommittees,
including committees of the whole, established by a board or commission
pursuant to §
32.07 Committees and Subcommittees.
   (D)   Annual review. The Council shall conduct an annual review of the
attendance of members of boards and commissions established by the Council.
   (E)   Vacancies. The successor to any member of a board or commission who
has been removed pursuant to this subsection shall be appointed pursuant to §
32.06 Appointment and Terms.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.13 CONTINUING EDUCATION.
   Members of the boards and commissions shall be required to complete various
continuing education courses, lectures, webinars or seminars as outlined by
City Council or city staff on an annual basis.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.14 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the boards and commissions shall serve on a strictly non-
compensated volunteer basis.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.15 EXPENDITURES.
   No expenditures by a board or commission shall be made unless and until
authorized for the purpose by the City Council.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.16 COUNCIL LIAISON.
   (A)   City Council Member. A Council Member may to be appointed to a board
or commission as a liaison by the Mayor with approval of the City Council. The
Council liaison shall serve for a one- year term, to expire on December 31 of
each year. The Council liaison shall serve as a non-voting member of the board
or commission and shall not count for quorum purposes. Council liaisons may
participate in discussion of matters before the board or commission. The
Council liaison may not hold an office on the board or commission, such as the
Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson.
   (B)   Alternates. In the event the City Council liaison is not able to
attend the board or commission meeting, the selected alternate shall take their
place. This alternate shall be a City Council member and selected by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.25 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   A Planning Commission for the city is hereby established. The Planning
Commission shall be the city planning agency authorized by M.S. § 462.354,
Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. Except as otherwise provided
in this chapter, the Planning Commission shall be advisory directly to the City
Council.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.26 COMPOSITION.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members to be appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.27 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Planning Commission shall have the powers and duties
given to city planning agencies generally by law, including the authority to
conduct public hearings as directed by City Council or city policy. The
Planning Commission shall also exercise the duties conferred upon it by this
code.
   (B)   Comprehensive Plan. It shall be the purpose of the Planning Commission
to prepare and adopt a Comprehensive Plan for the physical development of the
city, including proposed public buildings, street arrangements and
improvements, efficient design of major thoroughfares for moving of traffic,
parking facilities, public utilities services, parks and playgrounds, a general
land use plan and other matters relating to the physical development of the
city. This plan may be prepared in sections, each of which shall relate to a
Comprehensive Plan program. After the City Council has adopted the
Comprehensive Plan, the Planning Commission may periodically, but at least
every five years, review the Comprehensive Plan and any ordinances or programs
implementing the plan.
   (C)   Means of executing plan. Upon the adoption of a comprehensive plan or
any section thereof, it shall be the concern of the Planning Commission to
recommend to the City Council reasonable and practical means for putting into
effect the plan or section thereof, in order that it will serve as a pattern
and guide for the orderly physical development of the city and as a basis for
judging the timely disbursements of funds to implement the objective. Means of
effectuating the plan shall, among other things, consist of a zoning ordinance,
subdivision regulations, capital improvement programming and technical review,
and recommendations of matters referred to the Planning Commission by the City
Council.
   (D)   Zoning Ordinance. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time, after adoption of a Comprehensive Plan, the Planning
Commission shall review all proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance,
conduct public hearings as directed by City Council or city policy, and make
recommendations to the City Council concerning zoning ordinance amendments and
their relation to the city's Comprehensive Plan and other land use controls.
The Planning Commission shall report its recommendations to the City Council
for action.
   (E)   Conditional Use Permits. The Planning Commission may make
recommendations on all requests for a conditional use permit under the terms of
the zoning ordinance and conduct public hearings as directed by City Council or
city policy. The Planning Commission shall report its recommendations to the
City Council for action.
   (F)   Interim Use Permits. The Planning Commission may make recommendations
on all requests for an interim use permit under the terms of the zoning
ordinance and conduct public hearings as directed by City Council or city
policy. The Planning Commission shall report its recommendations to the City
Council for action.
   (G)   Subdivision regulations. The Planning Commission may make
recommendations in relation to the subdividing of land as prescribed by the
ordinance. The Planning Commission shall report its recommendations to the City
Council for action.
   (H)   Variances. All applications for variances shall be referred to the
Planning Commission, acting as the Board of Appeals and Adjustment, and
forwarded with or without recommendations directly to the City Council for its
decision.
   (I)   Site Plan and Design Review. The Planning Commission may make
recommendations on all requests for site plan and design reviews under the
terms of the zoning ordinance and conduct public hearings as directed by City
Council or city policy. The Planning Commission shall report its
recommendations to the City Council for action.
   (J)   Official map. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.359, Subd. 2, as it may be
amended from time to time, after adoption of a major thoroughfare plan and a
community facilities plan (which may be contained in the city comprehensive
plan or adopted separately), the Planning Commission, for the purpose of
carrying out the policies of the major thoroughfare plan and community
facilities plan, may prepare and recommend to the governing body a proposed
official map covering the entire municipality or any portion thereof. The
official map or maps shall be prepared in sufficient detail to permit the
establishment of the future acquisition lines on the ground. In unplatted
areas, a minimum of a centerline survey shall have been made prior to the
preparation of the final draft of the official map. The accuracy of the future
acquisition lines shown on the official map shall be attested to by a licensed
land surveyor.
   (K)   Appeals to denials of zoning, land use or building permits based on
the official map. All appeals to denials of zoning, land use or building
permits based on the official map may be referred to the Planning Commission,
and forwarded with or without recommendations directly to the City Council. The
City Council shall have the powers of a Board of Appeals and Adjustments as
provided for in M.S. § 462.359, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time
for its decision.
   (L)   Purchase and sale of real property. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.356, Subd.
2, as it may be amended from time to time, after adoption of a Comprehensive
Plan, the Planning Commission shall review all proposed acquisitions or
disposals of publicly owned interests in real property within the city by the
municipality, or any special district or any agency thereof, or any other
political subdivision having jurisdiction within the municipality, and make
findings as to the compliance of the proposed acquisition or disposal of real
property with the Comprehensive Plan. The City Council may by resolution
adopted by two-thirds vote dispense with the requirements of this section when
in its judgment it finds that the proposed acquisition or disposal of real
property has no relationship to the Comprehensive Plan.
   (M)   Capital improvements. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.356, Subd. 2, as it may
be amended from time to time, after adoption of a Comprehensive Plan, the
Planning Commission shall review all proposed capital improvements within the
city by the municipality, or any special district or any agency thereof, or any
other political subdivision having jurisdiction within the municipality and
make findings as to the compliance of the proposed capital improvements with
the Comprehensive Plan. The City Council may by resolution adopted by two-
thirds vote dispense with the requirements of this section when in its judgment
it finds that the proposed capital improvement has no relationship to the
Comprehensive Plan.
   (N)   Comprehensive Plan amendments. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.355, Subd. 2, 3,
as it may be amended from time to time, after adoption of Comprehensive Plan,
the Planning Commission shall review all proposed amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan, hold at least one public hearing, and make recommendations
to the City Council Comprehensive Plan amendments and their relation to the
City Comprehensive Plan and other land use controls. The Planning Commission
shall report its recommendations to the City Council for action.
   (O)   City plans. After adoption of program plans including, but not limited
to, the Downtown Design Manual, Redevelopment Master Plan, Living Streets Plan,
Capital Improvement Plan, and Park Improvement Plan, the Planning Commission
shall review all proposed amendments, conduct public hearings as directed by
City Council or city policy, and make recommendations to the City Council
concerning the amendments and their relation to the city’s Comprehensive Plan
and other land use controls. The Planning Commission shall report its
recommendations to the City Council for action.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015; Am. Ord. 808, passed 10-4-2022)
ENVIRONMENTAL ADVISORY COMMISSION
§ 32.45 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ADVISORY COMMISSION.
   An Environmental Advisory Commission for the city is hereby established. The
City Council hereby declares as a matter of public policy that the
environmental policies, education, and quality of the environment is a public
necessity and is required in the interest of the people. Accept as otherwise
provided in this chapter, the Environmental Advisory Commission shall be
advisory directly to the City Council.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.46 COMPOSITION.
   The Environmental Advisory Commission shall consist of five members to be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council. One non-resident
of the City of North St. Paul is allowed to serve as a voting member of the
five member Commission and shall count for quorum purposes.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.47 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Environmental Advisory Commission shall have the powers
and duties to provide recommendations to advance the city's environmental
goals, policies, and programs, engage the community, encourage relationships
and partnerships, and assist with other environmental interests and concerns
that the Council may deem appropriate.
   (B)   Purpose. To enhance the city's environmental stewardship, elicit
community feedback, provide for community outreach and education, promote
awareness of environmental issues, and enhance the quality of the city's lakes,
ponds and streams.
   (C)   Duties. The Environmental Advisory Commission shall have the following
duties:
      (1)   Policy. Advise the City Council with respect to environmental
policies including:
         (a)   Review and promote ordinances relating to protecting the
environment including erosion control, shoreland zoning, surface water
management, and wetland protection.
         (b)   Comprehensive Plan. It shall be the directive of the Commission
to give due regard to the city's Comprehensive Plan which specifically refers
to the natural environment where the city's environmental qualities need to be
protected and preserved.
         (c)   Living Streets Plan. The Commission shall give due regard to the
Living Streets Plan. The Commission may periodically, but at least every five
years, review the manual, and if necessary, update the plan. The Commission
shall review all proposed amendments to the Living Streets Plan, conduct public
hearings as directed by City Council or city policy, and make recommendations
to the City Council concerning the amendments and their relation to the city's
Comprehensive Plan and other land use controls. The Commission shall report its
recommendations to the City Council for action.
         (d)   Select Committee on Recycling and the Environment (SCORE). As
part of Minnesota's Waste Management Act, score funding provides counties with
resources to develop waste reduction, recycling and solid waste management
programs. The Commission shall recommend score fund allocation to the City
Council.
         (e)   Tree Board. The Commission shall serve as the Tree Board for the
Tree City USA program and review requests and make recommendations to the City
Council.
         (f)   Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP). The Commission
shall serve in a supportive capacity to the public participation and
educational elements of the SWPPP minimum control measures.
      (2)   Education. Promote public awareness of the environment,
sustainability, and natural resource management.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 32.55 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION.
   A Parks and Recreation Commission for the city is hereby established. The
City Council hereby declares as a matter of public policy that parks, open
spaces and trails and associated open water, lakes, ponds, streams and wetlands
contribute significantly to enhancement and image of the city as intended by
the city's Comprehensive Plan and the Park Improvement Plan. Except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, the Parks and Recreation Commission shall
be advisory directly to the City Council.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.56 COMPOSITION.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall consist of seven members to be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015; Am. Ord. 813, passed 2-7-2023)
§ 32.57 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Parks and Recreation Commission shall have the powers
and duties to establish, improve, develop and maintain the parks, open spaces
and trails system which include policies governing the maintenance and public
use of the parks and trails within the city as well as activity surrounding the
associated open water, lakes, ponds, streams and wetlands.
   (B)   Purpose. The Parks and Recreation Commission is established in
recognition the importance of adequate, useful and attractive parks, open
spaces, trails and associated open water to promote public health and active
living, provide for leisure activities, maintain property values and sustain a
high quality of life in the community.
   (C)   Duties. The Parks and Recreation Commission shall have the following
duties:
      (1)   Use. Prepare operating policies and procedures for use of existing
parks.
      (2)   Park Fund. Make recommendations to the City Council related to
programs, projects, and improvements.
      (3)   Public Land Dedication. Review requests and make recommendations to
the City Council.
      (4)   Comprehensive Plan. It shall be the directive of the Park and
Recreation Commission to give due regard to the city’s Comprehensive Plan as it
relates to Parks, Open Spaces and Trails and its coordinating map in which the
goal and vision is to enhance and expand the city’s system.
      (5)   Park Improvement Plan. The Park and Recreation Commission shall
give due regard to the Park Improvement Plan. The Park Improvement Plan shall
incorporate the Policies and Program elements of the Parks, Open Spaces and
Trails chapter of the city’s Comprehensive Plan and shall include a five-year
Capital Improvement Plan. After the City Council has adopted the Park
Improvement Plan, the Commission shall annually review the plan, and if
necessary, update the plan. The Commission shall report its recommendations to
the City Council for incorporation into the Capital Improvement Plan.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015; Am. Ord. 808, passed 10-4-2022)
BOARD OF APPEALS AND ADJUSTMENT
§ 32.65 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BOARD OF APPEALS AND ADJUSTMENT.
   A Board of Appeals and Adjustment for the city is hereby established. The
Planning Commission shall serve as the Board of Appeals and Adjustment. Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Board of Appeals and Adjustment
shall be advisory directly to the City Council.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.66 COMPOSITION.
   The Board of Appeals and Adjustment shall consist of seven members to be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 32.67 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Board of Appeals and Adjustment shall act upon all
questions that may arise in the administration of the zoning provisions,
including interpretation of the zoning maps.
   (B)   Purpose. The Board of Appeals and Adjustment is established in order
to review variances and appeals.
   (C)   Duties. The Board of Appeals and Adjustment shall have the following
duties:
      (1)   Variances. The Board shall make recommendations to the City Council
regarding variances to the zoning provisions.
      (2)   Appeals. The Board shall hear and make recommendations to the City
Council regarding appeals from and review any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by an administrative official charged with enforcing the
zoning provisions. The appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, board or bureau of a municipality, county or state.
   (D)   Hearings.
      (1)   Hearings shall be held by the Planning Commission in accordance
with the Board's adopted rules for the transaction of its business. Any party
may appear at the hearing in person or by agent or attorney.
   (E)   Decision and Order.
      (1)   The Board may forward an appeal to the Council without
recommendation or may recommend to reverse, affirm wholly or partly, or modify
the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed and to that end
shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal was taken and may
recommend issuance of the permit to the City Council. The City Council’s
decision shall be final except to the extent the aggrieved party may have a
right to appeal questions of law and fact to the Ramsey County District Court.
(Ord. 737, passed 6-16-2015; Am. Ord. 808, passed 10-4-2022)
ARTS AND CULTURE COMMISSION
§ 32.75 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ARTS AND CULTURE COMMISSION.
   An Arts and Culture Commission for the city is hereby established. The City
Council hereby declares as a matter of public policy it is critical for the
city to promote and increase the city's artistic and cultural assets by
encouraging and participating in the selection and interpretation of public
artwork and public arts events. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
the Arts and Culture Commission shall advise the City Council.
(Ord. 798, passed 5-18-2021)
§ 32.76 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Arts and Culture Commission shall adopt bylaws and rules of procedure
for administration of its affairs, which shall be subject to the approval of
City Council. The bylaws shall set regularly scheduled meetings and set
attendance requirements for its members. The bylaws shall set forth a procedure
for removal of a member who fails to meet the attendance requirements. Said
removal shall be subject to the final approval of City Council.
(Ord. 798, passed 5-18-2021)
§ 32.77 COMPOSITION.
   The Arts and Culture Commission shall consist of seven members to be
appointed or removed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 798, passed 5-18-2021; Am. Ord. 809, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 32.78 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Arts and Culture Commission shall have the powers and
duties to advocate for, promote, and participate in the selection and
interpretation of public artwork and public arts events in the city.
   (B)   Purpose. The Arts and Culture Commission is established to stimulate
and encourage the creation, performance, and appreciation of art and culture in
the city and advise the City Council on arts-related matters, and promote the
positive economic impact the arts has in the community.
   (C)   Duties. The Arts and Culture Commission shall have the following
duties:
      (1)   To make recommendations on all requests for art installments on
city property and conduct public meetings as directed by City Council or city
policy;
      (2)   To give due regard to the city's Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   To foster the development of the arts and culture in the city;
      (4)   To advise city administration and the City Council with respect to
arts and culture-related matters;
      (5)   To stimulate participation in and appreciation of the arts by city
residents;
      (6)   To act as an advocate for the arts before private and public
agencies;
      (7)   To determine methods of selection of artists and works of art;
      (8)   To evaluate and recommend artists eligible for funding by the city,
if any funding is available;
      (9)   To evaluate and recommend works of art for approved locations for
funding by the city;
      (10)   To recommend locations for the performing arts;
      (11)   To assist the city in raising funds from public and private
sources for the funding of arts projects in the city.
(Ord. 798, passed 5-18-2021)
CHAPTER 33: CITY POLICY ON ABANDONED PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Disposition of abandoned property
   
33.02   Perishable property
Abandoned Vehicles
   
33.15   Findings and purpose
   
33.16   Definitions
   
33.17   Violation to abandon motor vehicle
   
33.18   Authority to impound vehicles
   
33.19   Sale; waiting periods
   
33.20   Notice of taking and sale
   
33.21   Right to reclaim
   
33.22   Operator’s deficiency claim; consent to sale
   
33.23   Disposition by impound lot
   
33.24   Disposal authority
   
33.25   Contracts; reimbursement by MPCA
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Procedure. Except for abandoned and junked vehicles, all property
lawfully coming into possession of the city shall be disposed of as provided in
this section which is adopted pursuant to M.S. § 471.195, as it may be amended
from time to time. Abandoned and junked vehicles shall be disposed of according
to the procedures of §§
33.15 et seq.
   (B)   Storage. The department of the city acquiring possession of the
property shall arrange for its storage. If city facilities are unavailable or
inadequate, the department may arrange for storage at a privately-owned
facility.
   (C)   Claim by owner. The owner may claim the property by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the city any storage or maintenance
costs incurred by it. A receipt for the property shall be obtained upon release
to the owner.
   (D)   Sale. If the property remains unclaimed in the possession of the city
for 60 days, the property shall be sold to the highest bidder at a public
auction conducted by the City Clerk or his or her designee after two weeks’
published notice setting forth the time and place of the sale and a summary of
the property to be sold.
   (E)   Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of the sale shall be placed in
the general fund of the city. If the former owner makes application and
furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the sale, the
former owner shall be paid the proceeds of the sale of the property less the
costs of storage and the proportionate part of the cost of published notice and
other costs of the sale.
§ 33.02 PERISHABLE PROPERTY.
   If the property in possession of the city is such that it would perish
within six months, the city could sell the same at public or private sale and
account for the monies as stated above.
(`89 Code, § 11.070)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 33.15 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   M.S. Chapter 168B, and Minn. Rules Chapter 7035, as they may be amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted by reference. Sections
33.15 through
33.25 of this code are adopted under the authority of M.S. § 168B.09, Subd. 2,
as it may be amended from time to time. If any of these provisions are less
stringent that the provisions of M.S. § 168B or Minn. Rules Chapter 7035, as it
may be amended from time to time, the statute or rule shall take precedence.
§ 33.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle, as defined in M.S. § 169.01 as it may be amended
from time to time, that:
         (a)   Has remained illegally:
            1.   For a period of more than 48 hours on any property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, or more than four hours on that property
when it is properly posted; or
            2.   On private property for a period of time, as determined under
§
33.18(B), without the consent of the person in control of the property; and
         (b)   Lacks vital component parts or is in an inoperable condition
that it has no substantial potential for further use consistent with its usual
functions, unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building.
      (2)   A classic car or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. § 168.10 as it may
be amended from time to time, is not considered an abandoned vehicle.
      (3)   Vehicles on the premises of junk yards and automobile graveyards
that are defined, maintained, and licensed in accordance with M.S. § 161.242 as
it may be amended from time to time, or that are licensed and maintained in
accordance with local laws and zoning regulations, are not considered abandoned
vehicles.
      (4)   A vehicle being held for storage by agreement or being held under
police authority or pursuant to a writ or court order is not considered
abandoned, nor may it be processed as abandoned while the police hold, writ or
court order is in effect.
   DEPARTMENT. The Minnesota Department of Public Safety.
   IMPOUND. To take and hold a vehicle in legal custody. There are two types of
impounds: public and nonpublic.
     IMPOUND LOT OPERATOR or OPERATOR. A person who engages in impounding or
storing, usually temporarily, unauthorized or abandoned vehicles. OPERATOR
includes an operator of a public or nonpublic impound lot, regardless of
whether tow truck service is provided.
   JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle that:
      (1)   Is extensively damaged, with the damage including things as broken
or missing wheels, motor, drive train or transmission;
      (2)   Is apparently inoperable;
      (3)   Does not have a valid, current registration plate; and
      (4)   Has an approximate fair market value equal only to the approximate
value of the scrap in it.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Has the meaning given “motor vehicle” in M.S. §
169.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
   MOTOR VEHICLE WASTE. Solid waste and liquid wastes derived in the operation
of or in the recycling of a motor vehicle, including such things as tires and
used motor oil, but excluding scrap metal.
   MPCA or AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NONPUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot that is not a public impound lot.
   PUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot owned by or contracting with a unit of
government under §
33.24.
   UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is subject to removal and impoundment
pursuant to §
33.18(B), or M.S. § 169.041 as it may be amended from time to time, but is not
a junk vehicle or an abandoned vehicle.
   UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. Includes a state department or agency, a special purpose
district, and a county, statutory or home rule charter city, or town.
   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of a motor vehicle that are essential to
the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including such things as the motor,
drive train and wheels.
§ 33.17 VIOLATION TO ABANDON MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Any person who abandons a motor vehicle on any public or private property,
without the consent of the person in control of the property, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 33.18 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Abandoned or junk vehicles. The City Clerk or his or her designee or
any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by the city may
take into custody and impound any abandoned or junk vehicle if the vehicle is
on public property. If the abandoned or junk vehicle is located on private
property, the vehicle shall not be removed or impounded until the provisions of
§
33.18(C) are complied with.
   (B)   Unauthorized vehicles. The City Clerk, or his or her designee or any
peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by the city may
take into custody and impound any unauthorized vehicle under M.S. § 169.041 as
it may be amended from time to time. A vehicle may also be impounded after it
has been left unattended in one of the following public or private locations
for the indicated period of time:
      (1)   In a public location not governed by M.S. § 169.041 as it may be
amended from time to time:
         (a)   On a highway and properly tagged by a peace officer, four hours;
         (b)   Located so as to constitute an accident or traffic hazard to the
traveling public, as determined by a peace officer, immediately; or
         (c)   That is a parking facility or other public property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, properly posted, four hours; or
      (2)   On private property, only with the express permission of the owner
of the property, a resident or other person in control of the premises:
         (a)   That is single-family or duplex residential property,
immediately;
         (b)   That is private, nonresidential property, properly posted,
immediately;
         (c)   That is private, nonresidential property, not posted, 24 hours;
or
         (d)   That is any residential property, properly posted, immediately.
      (3)   If under division (B)(2) of this section, permission is not
granted, then the city shall not remove and impound any vehicle until the
procedure established in division (B)(2) of this section have been followed.
   (C)   If the vehicle is on private property, the City Clerk or his or her
designee or any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by
the city may take into custody and impound any abandoned or junk vehicle on
private property only with the permission of the owner of the property, a
resident, or other person in control of the premises. If permission is denied,
the city may declare the existence of the abandoned or junk vehicle to be a
nuisance and proceed to abate the nuisance as provided for in §§ 92.15 through
92.21. Once the abatement procedure has been completed, the city may apply for
an order from a court of competent jurisdiction authorizing the removal and
impoundment of the vehicle and, after the order has been granted, the city may
then remove and impound the vehicle.
§ 33.19 SALE; WAITING PERIODS.
   (A)   Sale after 15 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or
sale under §
33.23, 15 days after notice to the owner, if the vehicle is determined to be:
      (1)   A junk vehicle, except that it may have a valid, current
registration plate and still be eligible for disposal or sale under this
subdivision; or
      (2)   An abandoned vehicle.
   (B)   Sale after 45 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or
sale under §
33.23, 45 days after notice to the owner, if the vehicle is determined to be an
unauthorized vehicle.
§ 33.20 NOTICE OF TAKING AND SALE.
   (A)   Contents; notice given within five days. When an impounded vehicle is
taken into custody, the city or impound lot operator taking it into custody
shall give notice of the taking within five days. The notice shall:
      (1)   Set forth the date and place of the taking; the year, make, model
and serial number of the impounded motor vehicle if the information can be
reasonably obtained; and the place where the vehicle is being held;
      (2)   Inform the owner and any lienholders of their right to reclaim the
vehicle under §
33.21; and
      (3)   State that failure of the owner or lienholders to exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle and contents within the appropriate time allowed
under §
33.19 shall be deemed a waiver by them of all right, title and interest in the
vehicle and contents and a consent to the transfer of title to and disposal or
sale of the vehicle and contents pursuant to §
33.23.
   (B)   Notice by mail or publication. The notice shall be sent by mail to the
registered owner, if any, of an impounded vehicle and to all readily
identifiable lienholders of record. The Department makes this information
available to impound lot operators for notification purposes. If it is
impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and address of
the registered owner and all lienholders, the notice shall be published once in
a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the motor vehicle was
towed from or abandoned. Published notices may be grouped together for
convenience and economy.
   (C)   Unauthorized vehicles; notice. If an unauthorized vehicle remains
unclaimed after 30 days from the date the notice was sent under division (B) of
this section, a second notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the registered owner, if any, of the unauthorized vehicle and to
all readily identifiable lienholders of record.
§ 33.21 RIGHT TO RECLAIM.
   (A)   Payment of charges. The owner or any lienholder of an impounded
vehicle shall have a right to reclaim the vehicle from the city or impound lot
operator taking it into custody upon payment of all towing and storage charges
resulting from taking the vehicle into custody within 15 or 45 days, as
applicable under §
33.19, after the date of the notice required by §
33.20.
   (B)   Lienholders. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair any
lien of a garagekeeper under the laws of this state, or the right of a
lienholder to foreclose. For the purposes of this section, GARAGEKEEPER is an
operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor vehicle
storage facility, or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair
or maintenance of motor vehicles.
§ 33.22 OPERATOR’S DEFICIENCY CLAIM; CONSENT TO SALE.
   (A)   Deficiency claim. The nonpublic impound lot operator has a deficiency
claim against the registered owner of the vehicle for the reasonable costs of
services provided in the towing, storage and inspection of the vehicle minus
the proceeds of the sale or auction. The claim for storage costs may not exceed
the costs of:
      (1)   25 days storage for a vehicle described in §
33.19(A); and
      (2)   55 days storage for a vehicle described in §
33.19(B).
   (B)   Implied consent to sale. A registered owner who fails to claim the
impounded vehicle within the applicable time period allowed under §
33.19 is deemed to waive any right to reclaim the vehicle and consents to the
disposal or sale of the vehicle and its contents and transfer of title.
§ 33.23 DISPOSITION BY IMPOUND LOT.
   (A)   Auction or sale.
      (1)   If an abandoned or unauthorized vehicle and contents taken into
custody by the city or any impound lot is not reclaimed under §
33.21, it may be disposed of or sold at auction or sale when eligible pursuant
to §§
33.20 and
33.21.
      (2)   The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title to dispose of the
vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the vehicle
and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and claims of
ownership. Before a vehicle is issued a new certificate of title, it must
receive a motor vehicle safety check.
   (B)   Unsold vehicles. Abandoned or junk vehicles not sold by the city or
public impound lots pursuant to division (A) of this section shall be disposed
of in accordance with §
33.24.
   (C)   Sale proceeds; public entities. From the proceeds of a sale under this
section by the city or public impound lot of an abandoned or unauthorized motor
vehicle, the city shall reimburse itself for the cost of towing, preserving and
storing the vehicle, and all administrative, notice and publication costs
incurred in handling the vehicle pursuant to this chapter. Any remainder from
the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the owner of the vehicle or entitled
lienholder for 90 days and then shall be deposited in the treasury of the city.
   (D)   Sale proceeds; nonpublic impound lots. The operator of a nonpublic
impound lot may retain any proceeds derived from a sale conducted under the
authority of division (A) of this section. The operator may retain all proceeds
from sale of any personal belongings and contents in the vehicle that were not
claimed by the owner or the owner’s agent before the sale, except that any
suspected contraband or other items that likely would be subject to forfeiture
in a criminal trial must be turned over to the appropriate law enforcement
agency.
§ 33.24 DISPOSAL AUTHORITY.
   The city may contract with others or may utilize its own equipment and
personnel for the inventory of impounded motor vehicles and abandoned scrap
metal and may utilize its own equipment and personnel for the collection,
storage and transportation of these vehicles and abandoned scrap metal. The
city may utilize its own equipment and personnel only for the collection and
storage of not more than five abandoned or unauthorized vehicles without
advertising for or receiving bids in any 120-day period.
§ 33.25 CONTRACTS; REIMBURSEMENT BY MPCA.
   (A)   MPCA review and approval. If the city proposes to enter into a
contract with a person licensed by the MPCA pursuant to this section or a
contract pursuant to §
33.24, the MPCA may review the proposed contract before it is entered into by
the city, to determine whether it conforms to the MPCA’s plan for solid waste
management and is in compliance with MPCA rules. A contract that does so
conform may be approved by the MPCA and entered into by the city. Where a
contract has been approved, the MPCA may reimburse the city for the costs
incurred under the contract that have not been reimbursed under §
33.23. Except as otherwise provided in §
33.24, the MPCA shall not approve any contract that has been entered into
without prior notice to and request for bids from all persons duly licensed by
the MPCA to be a party to a disposal contract pursuant to M.S. § 116.07, as it
may be amended from time to time; does not provide for a full performance bond;
or does not provide for total collection and transportation of abandoned motor
vehicles, except that the MPCA may approve a contract covering solely
collection or transportation of abandoned motor vehicles where the MPCA
determines total collection and transportation to be impracticable and where
all other requirements herein have been met and the unit of government, after
proper notice and request for bids, has not received any bid for total
collection and transportation of abandoned motor vehicles.
   (B)    The city may perform work. If the city utilizes its own equipment and
personnel pursuant to its authority under §
33.24, and the use of the equipment and personnel conforms to the MPCA’s plan
for solid waste management and is in compliance with MPCA rules, the city may
be reimbursed by the MPCA for reasonable costs incurred which are not
reimbursed under §
33.23.
   (C)   The city required to contract work. The MPCA may demand that the city
contract for the disposal of abandoned motor vehicles and other scrap metal
pursuant to the MPCA’s plan for solid waste disposal. If the city fails to
contract within 180 days of the demand, the MPCA, through the Department of
Administration and on behalf of the city, may contract with any person duly
licensed by the MPCA for the disposal.
CHAPTER 34: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Section
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Establishment
   
34.03   Name
   
34.04   Members
   
34.05   Administration
   
34.06   Modification
   
34.07   Report to Council
   
34.08   Executive Director
   
34.09   Conflicts of interest
   
34.10   Budget
   
34.11   Schedule of powers
   
34.12   Limit of powers
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. An Economic Development Authority as defined by M.S. §§ 469.090
through 469.1081.
   CITY. The City of North Saint Paul, Minnesota.
   COUNCIL. The duly elected governing body of the City of North Saint Paul,
Minnesota.
   ENABLING RESOLUTION. The ordinance codified in this subchapter.
   THE ACT. M.S. §§ 469.090 through 469.1081.
(Ord. 683, passed 10-20-09)
§ 34.02 ESTABLISHMENT.
   An economic development authority is established which shall have all of the
powers, duties and responsibilities of an economic development authority
pursuant to M.S. §§ 469.090 through 469.1081. It shall be the role and
responsibility of the Authority to carry out economic and industrial
development and redevelopment within the North Saint Paul area pursuant to
bylaws as may be adopted by the Authority. It shall confer with other city
departments, and other public and private groups on matters relating to
business and industrial development and periodically survey the area’s
industrial and commercial climate and report regularly to the Council.
(Ord. 683, passed 10-20-09)
§ 34.03 NAME.
   The economic development authority created by the enabling resolution shall
be known as the North Saint Paul Economic Development Authority.
(Ord. 683, passed 10-20-09)
§ 34.04 MEMBERS.
   The Economic Development Authority shall consist of seven members of which
one shall be the Mayor and at least one a City Councilmember. The Mayor shall
present candidates for the Economic Development Authority to the City Council
for consideration of approval. Candidates for the Economic Development
Authority shall have an interest in advancing the business and economic climate
of the city but need not be residents of the city.
(Ord. 683, passed 10-20-09)
§ 34.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Bylaws. The Authority shall adopt bylaws and rules of procedure for
administration of its affairs.
   (B)   Officers. The Authority shall elect a chair and a vice-chair on an
annual basis. The City Manager or designee shall serve as the Executive
Director; an ex officio member.
   (C)   Professional service contracts. The Authority may employ technical
experts and professionals as deemed necessary. Their compensation and duties
shall conform to city policy.
   (D)   Duties and powers.  The officers shall have the duties and powers of
their offices and other powers and duties as may be delegated by the Authority,
the bylaws, and the Act. No action of the Authority may be in conflict with the
city’s current comprehensive plan or controls instituted to effectuate the
plan.
   (E)   Meetings. The Authority shall meet quarterly and at such other times
as necessary.
(Ord. 683, passed 10-20-09)
§ 34.06 MODIFICATION.
   All modifications to the enabling resolution must be by ordinance and must
be adopted after notice and Public Hearing conducted as required for the
original adoption of the enabling resolution.
(Ord. 683, passed 10-20-09)
§ 34.07 REPORT TO COUNCIL.
   The Authority shall submit a written report of its activities and
recommendations for modification of the enabling resolution to the Council at
least annually.
(Ord. 683, passed 10-20-09)
§ 34.08 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
   The city’s Manager or designee shall attend all meetings of the Authority,
shall serve as a consultant and advisor to the Authority and shall make
quarterly reports to the Council.
(Ord. 683, passed 10-20-09)
§ 34.09 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Except as authorized by M.S. § 471.88, a member, officer or employee of the
Authority may not have a substantial conflict of interest, in projects
undertaken by the Authority.
(Ord. 683, passed 10-20-09)
§ 34.10 BUDGET.
   (A)   Fiscal budget. The Executive Director shall prepare and submit to the
Authority an annual budget to coincide with the city’s budget process. The city
shall establish a special fund designated as the “Economic Development
Authority Fund.” The Authority shall recommend a budget and submit it to the
City Council for final approval. The Council shall appropriate to the fund
money it deems necessary for Authority purposes. This shall constitute the
budget of the Authority. All payments drawn on the account of the Authority
shall be by written statement signed by two officers of the Authority,
directing the City Manager to prepare and deliver payment. All expenditures
shall be consistent with the operation of the Authority pursuant to this
subchapter and Minnesota Statutes.
   (B)   Levy.  Levy authority shall be consistent with M.S. § 69.033, Subd. 6.
and rest with the City Council.
   (C)   Audit. All financial records of the Authority shall be prepared,
audited, and filed with the city, the records being coordinated by the City
Finance Department at the direction of the City Manager.
(Ord. 683, passed 10-20-09)
§ 34.11 SCHEDULE OF POWERS.
   (A)   Development districts. The Authority may create and define the
boundaries of economic development districts and use the powers granted to
carry out economic development in these districts.
   (B)   Acquire property. The Authority may acquire, by lease, purchase,
devise or through condemnation proceedings, title in property to create
economic development in these districts. Property acquired, leased, owned,
controlled, used or occupied by the Authority for any of the purposes of M.S. §
469.101, Subd. 2, is for public governmental and municipal purposes and is
exempt from taxation by the state or its political subdivisions. The exemption
from property taxes only applies while the Authority holds the property for its
own purpose(s).
   (C)   Options. The Authority may negotiate and acquire options to purchase,
sell or lease property for the purpose of economic development.
   (D)   Contracts. The Authority may make contracts for the purpose of
economic development.
   (E)   Limited partnerships. The Authority may become a limited partner in a
partnership.
   (F)   Rights and easements. The Authority may acquire rights or easements
for a term of years or perpetually.
   (G)   Receive public property. The Authority may accept land, money or other
assistance, whether by gift, grant, loan or otherwise in any form from federal,
state, local government, any agency of either or a local division of state
government.
   (H)   Public facilities. The Authority may operate, maintain a public
parking facility, housing facility or other public facilities to promote
economic development in the area.
   (I)   Other powers. The Authority shall have such other powers as authorized
as described in the Act.
(Ord. 683, passed 10-20-09)
§ 34.12 LIMIT OF POWERS.
   (A)   General obligation and revenue bonds. The Authority may issue general
obligation bonds or revenue bonds after receiving the approval and
authorization by four-fifths vote of the Council and in accordance with the
provisions of the Act.
   (B)   Comprehensive plan.  The official actions of the Authority must be
consistent with the adopted comprehensive plan of the city, and any official
controls implementing the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 683, passed 10-20-09)
TITLE V: CITY ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
50.   CITY EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL POLICIES
   
51.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
   
52.   COMMUNITY SERVICES/ELECTIONS
   
53.   FIRE AND POLICE
   
54.   FINANCE
   
55.   SOLID WASTE, RECYCLING AND COMPOSTING
   
56.   SANITARY AND STORM SEWER SYSTEM UTILITIES
   
57.   WATER SERVICE UTILITY
   
58.   ELECTRIC SERVICE UTILITY
   
59.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
60.   CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECKS
CHAPTER 50: CITY EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
50.01   City employee personnel policies
§ 50.01 CITY EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The City Manager is authorized to establish policies within the context of
State and Federal Law and upon the advice and consent of the City Council. Such
policies were established in January of 1999. An employee handbook was designed
to answer questions pertaining to employment practices, responsibilities as an
employee, and benefits received. The handbook is not a contract and does not
constitute the terms of an employment contract. Information and provisions
contained in the handbook may change from time to time, upon consent of the
City Council and notification of employees.
CHAPTER 51: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
51.01   Policy and purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
51.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
51.05   Local emergencies
   
51.06   Emergency regulations
   
51.07   Emergency management a government function
   
51.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to insure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters.
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters.
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions.
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action,  or from industrial hazardous
material mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting
services, police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning
services, communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate
care, emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of
plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. Emergency
management includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANI- ZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city- level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 51.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City Council for an indefinite term
and may be removed by him or her at any time. The Director shall serve with a
salary as established by the City Council and shall be paid his or her
necessary expenses. The Director shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration and operation of the emergency preparedness
organization, subject to the direction and control of the Mayor.
§ 51.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director, with the consent of the Mayor, shall represent the city
on any regional or state conference for emergency management. The Director
shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions
of the state for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in an
emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and shall present these
agreements to the Council for its action. These arrangements shall be
consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city’s emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 51.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Manager.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter- jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Manager. A copy shall be
kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours. Notice
of the existence of these regulations and their availability for inspection at
the City Manager’s office shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the
city hall or other headquarters of the city or at other places in the affected
area as the Council shall designate in the resolution. By resolution, the
Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he would otherwise
be entitled under this resolution or under the worker’s compensation law, or
under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 51.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 52: COMMUNITY SERVICES/ELECTIONS
Section
   
52.01   Regular election
   
52.02   Terms of office of Mayor
   
52.03   Terms of office of Council members
   
52.04   Community services
§ 52.01 REGULAR ELECTION.
   The regular election of the city shall be held on the first Tuesday after
the first Monday in November in every even numbered year.
(`89 Code, § 6.010)
§ 52.02 TERMS OF OFFICE OF MAYOR.
   The term of office for Mayor shall be four years and until his or her
successor is chosen and qualified.
(`89 Code, § 6.040)
Cross reference:
   City Council, see
Chapter 30
§ 52.03 TERM OF OFFICE OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The term of office for a Council member shall be four years and until their
successors are chosen and qualified.
(`89 Code, § 6.050)
Cross reference:
   City Council, see
Chapter 30
§ 52.04 COMMUNITY SERVICES.
   The Community Services Department was created to better serve the residents
of the city. The offices of Fire Chief, Engineering, Inspections, Code
Enforcement, Administration and Elections comprise this department. There is an
appointed Director who reports directly to the City Manager.
Cross-reference:
   City Officials, see
Chapter 31
CHAPTER 53: FIRE AND POLICE
Section
Fire Department
   
53.01   Establishment
   
53.02   Personnel
   
53.03   Duties of Chief
   
53.04   Razing of buildings
   
53.05   Delegation of authority
   
53.06   Fire Code enforcement
   
53.07   Violations
Police Department
   
53.20   Police Civil Service Commission
   
53.21   Personnel
   
53.22   Issuing citations for violations of law
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 53.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Fire Department is established in and for the city to be known as the
North St. Paul Fire Department.
(`89 Code, § 8.010)
§ 53.02 PERSONNEL.
   The Fire Department shall consist of a Chief, and such other subordinate
officers and members of such qualifications as the Manager shall determine.
Fire Department personnel shall receive such renumeration for their services as
the Council shall authorize.
(`89 Code, § 8.020)
§ 53.03 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have the immediate control over
all subordinate officers and members.
   (B)   The Chief shall drill the Department until it functions in an
efficient manner and shall draft rules for the government of the Department
subject to the approval of the Manager.
(`89 Code, § 8.030)
§ 53.04 RAZING OF BUILDINGS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or officer in charge during any fire
to pull down, raze or remove any structure, building or property in the
vicinity of the fire as may be necessary to preserve property or to prevent the
communication of fire to other property.
(`89 Code, § 8.040)
§ 53.05 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   The Assistant Chiefs and other subordinate officers shall, in the respective
order of their ranking, have the full powers of the Chief in his or her absence
and in the absence of their immediate superior officer or officers.
(`89 Code, § 8.050)
§ 53.06 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   Buildings or structures in violation of any provisions of state or local
laws shall be considered “Dangerous Buildings” and handled under
Chapter 151. The Chief of the Fire Department, or representative authorized by
the Chief, is authorized to enforce all state and local fire laws and is
authorized to issue any citation or complaint necessary for said enforcement.
(`89 Code, § 8.070)
§ 53.07 VIOLATIONS.
   Violations of state or local fire laws or regulations shall be a misdemeanor
and shall be punished as provided in § 10.99. In addition to any criminal
action the city may take, the city shall also have the authority to seek
injunctive relief to abate the violations.
(`89 Code, § 8.080)
Penalty, see § 10.99
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 53.20 POLICE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
   There is established in and for the city a Police Civil Service Commission.
The provisions of M.S. §§ 419.01 through 419.181, as it may be amended from
time to time, providing for the powers and duties of the Commissions, are
adopted and made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein.
(`89 Code, § 9.010)
§ 53.21 PERSONNEL.
   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief and such other subordinate
officers and members as determined by the manager. Qualifications for these
positions shall be authorized by the Police Civil Service Commission.
(`89 Code, § 9.020)
§ 53.22 ISSUING CITATIONS FOR VIOLATIONS OF LAW.
   The following non-police personnel are authorized to issue citations for
violations of law occurring within the city limits and in their presence:
   (A)   Building officials and designees;
   (B)   Fire Chief and designees;
   (C)   City Manager and designees;
   (D)   Full or part-time employees of the city appointed by the City Manager,
or designee, to enforce parking restrictions.
(`89 Code, § 9.030)
CHAPTER 54: FINANCE
Section
Reserved.
CHAPTER 55: SOLID WASTE, RECYCLING AND COMPOSTING
Section
Garbage and Recyclables Collection
   
55.01   Contract for garbage and recyclables collection
   
55.02   Definitions
   
55.03   Collection: city-contracted service
   
55.04   Collection: multi-unit dwellings, institutional, industrial, and from
commercial establishments
   
55.05   Collection: source separated organic materials
   
55.06   Recycling collection
   
55.07   Maintenance of sanitary conditions
   
55.08    Fees
   
55.09   Solid waste haulers license
Backyard Composting
   
55.20   Purpose
   
55.21   Prohibition on disposal of organic waste in streets and sewers
   
55.22   Requirements for composting operations
   
55.23   Informational materials
   
55.24   Nuisance
   
55.25   Violations
GARBAGE AND RECYCLABLES COLLECTION
§ 55.01 CONTRACT FOR GARBAGE AND RECYCLABLES COLLECTION.
   The City of North St. Paul, exercising its municipal power under Minnesota
Statutes as they may be amended from time to time, shall provide organized
collection of garbage and recyclables to all defined single-unit dwellings that
are up to four-unit homes. The city may enter into an agreement with a private
company to provide this service. The agreement shall set forth the duties and
responsibilities of both the city and the contractor. The current agreement
shall be on file in the City Clerk's office and shall be available for public
inspection during normal business hours.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLIANCES. Items such as washers, dryers, refrigerators, freezers, air
conditioners, dehumidifiers, humidifiers, stoves, ranges, hot water heaters,
water softeners and other, similar large household items that require
electricity and/or special processing under Minnesota laws, but does not
include electronic waste.
   BULKY WASTE. All large, bulky household materials which do not fit within a
garbage cart, and include, but are not limited to carpeting and padding,
mattresses, chairs, couches, tables, appliances and car parts including wheels,
rims and tires.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Properties classified generally as, including but
not limited to, business, commercial, multi-unit dwelling, institutional and/or
industrial or other defined in the city zoning code which generate garbage and
recyclables and are typically serviced by a dumpster or roll-off box form of
garbage container. Shall  include any premises where a commercial enterprise of
any kind is carried on, including but not limited to restaurants and clubs,
churches and schools.
   COMPOSTING. Minnesota Statutes states composting is the biological
decomposition of organic matter. It is accomplished by mixing and piling in
such a way as to promote aerobic or anaerobic decay or both. The process
inhibits pathogens, viable weed seeds, and odors.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITON DEBRIS. Building materials, packaging, and other
rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, and demolition of
buildings; roads and/or other facilities.
   DESIGNATED RECYCLABLES. Are materials designated by the city as recyclable
including mixed paper, glass bottles and jars, plastic food and beverage
containers, metal food and beverage containers and household scrap metal. Other
materials may be included as markets become available.
   DUMPSTER. Commercial garbage container made of metal or durable plastic with
a lid that can be serviced by a front-loading automated or rear-loading semi-
automated garbage truck.
   DWELLING. A building or one or more portions thereof occupied or intended to
be occupied exclusively for residence purposes, but not including rooms in
motels, hotels, nursing homes, boarding houses, nor trailers, tents, cabins,
trailer coaches, or houseboats.
   DWELLING, MULTI-UNIT HOUSING. A building or complex which provides more than
four residential dwelling units with a kitchen or area for food preparation as
part of a large building or complex, and which as part of the rental fee or
association dues, provides refuse service for the entire group of households
with dumpster service.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-UNIT HOUSING. Shall include any single building of one to
four with individual kitchen facilities for each.  For additional dwelling unit
definitions, see the city zoning code.
   ELECTRONIC WASTE. Minnesota Statutes includes the following electronic waste
items: television and computer monitors, computers, computer peripheral
devices, fax machines, DVD players, video cassette recorders, other video
display devices, cell phones and other small appliances with an electric cord.
   GARBAGE. According to Minnesota Statutes mixed municipal solid waste is
solid waste from residential, commercial, industrial, and community activities
that the generator of the waste aggregates for collection, but does not include
auto hulks, street sweepings, ash, construction debris, mining waste, sludges,
tree and agricultural waste, tires, lead acid batteries, motor and vehicle
fluids and filters, and other materials collected, processed, and disposed of
as separate waste.
   GARBAGE AND RECYCLING CONTAINERS: SINGLE-UNIT HOUSING. A non-leaking
standard type wheeled garbage cart in approximately 32, 68, or 95 gallon sizes,
which is fitted with handles and attached lids.
   GARBAGE AND RECYCLING CONTAINERS: MULTI-UNIT HOUSING OR COMMERICAL
ESTABLISHMENT. Standard type wheeled garbage and recycling containers or
dumpsters; dumpsters shall be a metal container.
   HAULER. A licensed collector or transporter of garbage, recyclable
materials, bulky waste, electronic waste, source-separated compostable
materials or yard waste.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste generated from household activities that
exhibits the characteristics of or that is listed as hazardous waste under
agency rules that is generated, stored, or present in a household and includes
items such as paint, fluorescent light bulbs, mercury thermometers, cleaning
fluids, herbicides, pesticides, fertilizers and other waste as defined in
Minnesota Statutes or  regulations. Household hazardous waste does not include
waste from commercial activities.
   LEGAL HOLIDAYS. For the purposes of this chapter legal holidays shall be New
Year's Day, Memorial Day, 4th of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and
Christmas Day.
   MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Garbage and other solid waste from residential,
commercial and community activities that the generator of the waste aggregates
for collection.
   OCCUPANT. A person who resides or is present in a house at a given time.
   ORGANIC WASTE. Yard waste and raw, uncooked food waste, except for meat,
bones, whole eggs and dairy products. It also includes commercially available
compost ingredients.
   RECYCLING. The process of collecting and preparing recyclable materials and
reusing the materials in their original form or using them in manufacturing
processes that does not cause the destruction of recyclable materials in a
manner that precludes further use.
   RESIDENT. Person owning or renting a residential property in the City of
North Saint Paul.
   SOLID WASTE. Includes garbage, recyclables, appliances, bulky waste, yard
waste, litter and household hazardous waste.
   SOURCE-SEPARATED ORGANIC MATERIALS. Shall have the meaning set forth in
Minnesota Statutes and means materials that: (1) are separated at the source by
waste generators for the purpose of preparing them for use as compost; (2) are
collected separately from mixed municipal solid waste; and (3) are comprised of
food waste, fish and animal waste, plant materials, diapers, sanitary products,
and paper that is not recyclable. Source-separated compostable materials are
separate and distinct from organic wastes and source separated wastes defined
in §§
55.20 et seq.
   TENANT. A person who occupies a commercial establishment, land or property
rented from a landlord.
   VECTORS OF DISEASE. Animals including, but not limited, to insects, mice,
rats, squirrels, crows, flies and other vermin that are capable of carrying,
transmitting and/or infecting humans with disease.
   YARD WASTE. Shall include leaves, grass clippings, organic garden waste or
shrub and small tree branches no larger than ¼-inch diameter and similar non-
woody plant materials generated at residences.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 55.03 COLLECTION: CITY-CONTRACTED SERVICE.
   (A)   All garbage shall be kept in garbage containers that shall be water
tight, rodent and vermin-proof and of sufficient size to contain all solid
waste from one collection day until the next. Other types of containers such as
oil drums, fiber drums, barrels, cardboard boxes, and paper bags will not be
acceptable as garbage containers.
   (B)   Only garbage shall be placed in the garbage container. Items
prohibited from disposal with garbage in the containers include, but may not be
limited to: designated recyclables, tree and shrub waste, other yard waste,
construction and demolition debris, automotive parts or fluids, electronic
waste, or household hazardous waste. The city may prohibit disposal of source
separated organic materials in the garbage container at such time as a
collection program for source separated organic materials is established.
   (C)   The resident is responsible for the appropriate use and safety of the
garbage containers, including both the interior and exterior of the containers.
The resident shall rinse or wash the interior of the container as needed, and
shall keep the containers free of markings or graffiti.
   (D)   The City of North St. Paul shall contract with a recycling contractor
to serve as the exclusive curbside collector of recyclable materials from
single-unit up to four-unit dwellings. In such contract the city shall
determine the schedule, materials and frequency of collection.
   (E)   Garbage, recycling and yard waste containers, on collection day, shall
be placed on the curb along the pubic roadway or in front of the dwelling. In
areas where alley collection is allowed, containers shall be placed at the
alley line for collection or designated collection area for dwellings other
than single family.
   (F)   Containers shall be placed properly at the curb for pick-up not
earlier than 6:00 p.m. the day before scheduled collection, and removed from
the curb not later than 6:00 a.m. the day after scheduled collection.
   (G)   It shall be the responsibility of every resident to notify the city at
least one week in advance of starting or discontinuing garbage collection
service.
   (H)   Each occupant, owner or tenant shall dispose of garbage which
accumulates upon their property at least once a week or provided by city
contract, unless given special permission. Every tenant, occupant, or owner of
any single-unit dwelling unit shall use the garbage and recycling collection
service as provided by the City of North St. Paul.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 55.04 COLLECTION: MULTI-UNIT DWELLINGS, INSTITUTIONAL, INDUSTRIAL, AND FROM
COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Every multi-unit building, or commercial establishment shall have
garbage and recyclables collected by haulers licensed by the city and shall
comply with this chapter. The owners of multi-unit dwellings, townhouses and
townhouse associations, commercial establishments may opt-in to the city-
contracted garbage and recycling collection service, at their application and
with the city's approval.
   (B)   All solid waste containers exceeding 95 gallons in size and located on
property used for purposes other than single-unit residential collection shall
be a metal container. The dumpsters shall be of a capacity and sufficient in
number to fully contain solid waste between collections, covered, and of an
approved sanitary type with the proper attachments for lifting onto garbage
trucks. The dumpsters shall be water-tight and rodent and vermin-proof.
   (C)   The owner of a multi-unit dwelling shall make recycling services
available to the occupants of all dwelling units on the premise. The
recyclables collection services shall be conveniently available on the
premises. The recyclables collection service shall be for at least the
designated recyclables collected in the city's residential recycling program.
   (D)   The owner of a multi-unit dwelling shall provide recycling educational
information to new occupants of each dwelling unit and to all occupants on the
property at least once each year. The educational information shall notify the
occupants of the availability of collection services, describe the procedures
required to prepare the designated recyclables for collection.
   (E)   Each owner of a multi-unit building shall prohibit the disposal of
household hazardous waste, or other prohibited waste in garbage containers, and
shall provide educational information to all residents in the building on the
proper transportation and disposal of household hazardous waste.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015; Am. Ord. 756, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 55.05 COLLECTION: SOURCE SEPARATED ORGANIC MATERIALS.
   The City of North St. Paul may contract with a licensee to serve as the
exclusive collector of source separated organic materials for single-unit,
multi-unit, institutional, industrial and/or commercial establishments. If the
city initiates such separate collection, the following shall apply:
   (A)   The city shall determine the schedule, materials and frequency of
collection.
   (B)   Every single-unit, multi-unit building, institutional, industrial or
commercial establishment shall have source separated organic materials
collected by haulers licensed by the city or under city contract.
   (C)   The owner of a multi-unit dwelling shall make source separated organic
materials collection services available to the occupants of all dwelling units
on the premise. The source separated organic materials collection services
shall be conveniently available on the premises.
   (D)   The owner of a multi-unit dwelling shall provide source separated
organic materials educational information to the occupants of each dwelling
unit on the property at least once each year. The educational information shall
notify the occupants of the availability of collection services, describe the
procedures required to prepare the designated source separated organic
materials for collection.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 55.06 RECYCLING COLLECTION.
   (A)   The City of North St. Paul, exercising its municipal power under M.S.
§ 115A.94, as it may be amended from time to time, shall provide organized
collection of recyclable materials to all single-unit through four-unit homes.
The city may enter into an agreement with a private company to provide this
service. The agreement shall set forth the duties and responsibilities of both
the city and the contractor. The current agreement shall be on file at City
Hall office and shall be available for public inspection during normal business
hours.
   (B)   Recyclables collection service shall be for at least the designated
recyclables collected in the city's residential recycling program.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 55.07 MAINTENANCE OF SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   Persons accumulating solid waste shall comply with the following
requirements:
   (A)   No person shall place any solid waste in any street, alley, or other
pubic place, or upon any private property whether owned by such person or not,
unless it be in proper containers for collection, nor shall any person throw or
deposit any solid waste in any stream or other body of water.
   (B)   No person shall cause, place, sweep or deposit any garbage or refuse
in any manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements off his or
her property within the city.
   (C)   No person shall bury or burn any garbage or refuse in the city.
   (D)   The removal of wearing apparel, bedding, or other refuse from homes or
places where highly infectious or contagious diseases have prevailed shall be
performed under the supervision and direction of the Public Health Officer.
   (E)   Persons may apply to the city for less than weekly service on a form
provided by city. Permission may be granted for less than once per week garbage
removal provided that sufficient removal is accomplished to prevent nuisance or
unhealthful accumulations of garbage. Such permission will be withdrawn and
weekly garbage removal required, if nuisance or unhealthful conditions exist.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 55.08 FEES.
   (A)   The fees for city-contracted collection and disposal of garbage, bulky
waste, recyclables and yard waste for all single-unit residential properties
shall be determined by the city and set annually with the city fee schedule.
The city shall render a statement thereof to each single-unit property on a
monthly basis. All amounts due hereunder shall be payable to the city on the
fifth day of the month following the month in which the statement is presented.
   (B)   The city shall assess and levy in the same manner as other taxes, any
unpaid garbage, bulky waste, recyclables and yard waste accounts against the
property upon which the account has been accrued, and the same shall become a
lien against the property against the property. The city reserves the right to
charge interest and penalties fees as set in the city fee schedule to any
unpaid garbage, bulky waste, recyclables and yard waste account.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 55.09 SOLID WASTE HAULERS LICENSE.
   (A)   No person, company or corporation shall collect solid waste without
first obtaining the appropriate license issued by the City of North St. Paul.
   (B)   Before a license is issued, the applicant shall file with the City
Manager evidence that the applicant has in effect insurance policies, listing
the city as an additional insured, as follows:
      (1)   General liability, including coverage for bodily injury, wrongful
death, and property damage, for the hauler's business in the following amounts:
         (a)   $1,000,000 per person.
         (b)   $3,000,000 per occurrence.
      (2)   Auto liability for all vehicles in the following amounts:
         (a)   Property damage or wrongful death in the following amounts:
            (i)   $1,000,000 per person.
            (ii)   $3,000,000 per occurrence.
         (b)   Bodily injury in the following amounts:
            (i)   $1,000,000 per person.
            (ii)   $5,000,000 per occurrence.
      (3)   Workers Compensation Insurance as specified by the Minnesota
Department of Occupational Health and Safety and federal law.
   (C)   The number of solid waste haulers licenses under this section shall be
capped at the number in place on January 1, 2015; any decrease in the number of
licenses that occurs due to attrition will decrease the number of available
licenses.
   (D)   All licensed haulers who collect from single unit or multi-unit
residential accounts shall keep accurate records of all garbage, recyclables,
yard waste, electronic items, and bulky waste collected, and submit the
information required by the city on a quarterly basis.
      (1)   Recycling haulers shall provide proof of disposal of recycling
products to beneficial end markets.
      (2)   All recycling haulers shall report to the city on a quarterly basis
those residential properties that do not participate in the recycling program.
      (3)   When the city initiates requirements for source separated materials
collection, all licensed haulers who collect properties in the city shall keep
accurate records of all source separated organic materials collected and submit
the information required by the city on a quarterly basis.
   (E)   Licensees may collect materials only during the hours between 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (F)   A licensee's failure to comply with the provisions of the City of
North St. Paul's code, state laws, or any of the conditions attached to the
license shall be grounds for license revocation, without refund of license fee.
   (G)   Licensees shall use equipment so constructed that materials will not
spill out during transportation. The equipment shall be kept clean and shall
not be allowed to stand in any street or public place longer than is necessary
to collect materials. The equipment shall not leak fuel, oil, or hydraulic
fluid while in normal operation in the city.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015)
BACKYARD COMPOSTING
§ 55.20 PURPOSE.
   This ordinance is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and the
general welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   To establish powers, the duties, rules, regulations, and standards for
the location and operation of source separated organic waste composting
containers at residential and commercial properties in the city.
   (C)   To promote a program of waste reduction through source separation of
organic from mixed municipal solid waste.
   (D)   To provide for the administration and enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 55.21 PROHIBITION ON DISPOSAL OF ORGANIC WASTE IN STREETS AND SEWERS.
   No person shall rake or deposit organic waste or mixed municipal solid waste
on or into public or private streets, storm sewers, drainage ditches, water
retention basin, streams or lakes.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 55.22 REQUIREMENTS FOR COMPOSTING OPERATIONS.
   Composting of source separated organic material generated at single-unit,
multi-unit and institutional properties is permitted on-site at such properties
provided that all of the following requirements are met:
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   On-site composting containers shall be located and designed so that
seepage from the compost will not run off into public or private streets, storm
sewers, drainage ditches, water retention basins, streams or lakes.
      (2)   Location on property. The on- site composting container(s) shall be
located in the rear yard no closer than three feet from any rear or side
property line nor closer than 20 feet to any habitable building other than the
resident’s own home.
      (3)   No composting container may be placed within 20 feet of any body of
water or area designated as flood plain, shoreland or state protected wetlands.
   (B)   Compost materials. Only grass clippings, leaves, weeds that have not
gone to seed, nondiseased plants, trimmings less than ¼ inch in diameter,
straw, sawdust, wood ashes, fruit or vegetable scraps, coffee grounds,
eggshells, and commercially available compost ingredients may be placed in the
compost container. Meat, bones, fat oils, grease, dairy products, feces,
plastics, glass, metal, or synthetic fibers shall not be placed in the compost
container(s).
   (C)   Composting container. All composting must occur in a container
constructed of wood, wire mesh, or concrete block, or a combination thereof, or
in a commercially available compost bin designed for composting organic waste.
   (D)   Composting container size. Composting shall be conducted within an
enclosed container not to exceed five-feet by five-feet by five- feet.
Containers shall be of a durable material; including, but not, limited to,
sturdy woven wire fencing, rot-resistant wood, or a commercially purchased
composting unit which will provide for adequate aeration. Containers shall be
constructed and maintained in a structurally sound manner.
   (E)   Herbicide/pesticide use. No herbicides or pesticides shall be added to
a composting container.
   (F)   Maintenance. Compost materials shall be layered, aerated, moistened,
turned, managed and covered during inclement weather to promote effective
decomposition of the materials in a safe, secure and sanitary manner that do
not produce nuisance odors.
   (G)   Compost use. When the composting process is finished and the compost
resembles a soil- like humus or mulch material, it shall be used as a soil
amendment at the property from which the compost was generated.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 55.23 INFORMATIONAL MATERIALS.
   The city shall prepare and disseminate informational materials to assist
persons wishing to conduct source separated organic material composting in an
efficient and odor free manner and shall offer technical assistance to those
persons on the proper operation and maintenance of a composting operation.
Materials are to contain examples of acceptable composting containers.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 55.24 NUISANCE.
   A compost container must not be established or maintained in a manner such
that it creates a harborage for vectors of disease, or an odorous or other
nuisance to adjacent properties and any composting shall be suspended or
terminated if at any time the city determines a nuisance exists or that
conditions exist constituting a fire hazard or health hazard, or if there is a
threat to surface or groundwater from run-off or leaching.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 55.25 VIOLATIONS.
   It is unlawful to conduct composting operations in violation of the
requirements of this subchapter. In addition to the enforcement methods and
penalties available under the City Code, such violations may be abated as a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 738, passed 8-18-2015)
CHAPTER 56: SANITARY AND STORM SEWER SYSTEM UTILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
56.01   Definitions
   
56.02   Supervision of system
   
56.03   Rates and charges
   
56.04   Surface water management utility
   
56.05   Billing
   
56.06   Collection
Permits
   
56.15   Permit required to connect sewers or drains
   
56.16   Sewer assessments must be paid
   
56.17   Application and issuance
   
56.18   Permit fee
Requirements
   
56.30   Construction requirements
   
56.31   Construction inspection
   
56.32   Separate connections
   
56.33   Prohibition of illicit discharges
   
56.34   Prohibition of illegal connections
   
56.35   Obstruction prohibited
   
56.36   Certain uses prohibited
   
56.37   Inspection and repair of connecting drains
   
56.38   Notification of accidental discharges and spills
   
56.39   Utilities along borderline streets
   
56.40   Industrial user strength charge
Individual Sanitary and Storm Sewer Systems
   
56.50   Objectives
   
56.51   Minnesota Code adopted
   
56.52   Permit required; application
   
56.53   Maintenance
   
56.54   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 56.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE. A discharge prohibited by this chapter which occurs by
chance and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a building
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil waste and other drainage
pipes inside the walls of any building and conveys the same to the building
storm sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER. That part of the horizontal portion of the building drainage
system extending from the building drain to its connection with the septic tank
carrying the sewage of but one building.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE.  Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
municipal separate storm sewer system, except as exempted in §
56.33.
   ILLEGAL CONNECTION. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance, whether on the surface
or subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drain
system including but not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-
stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to
enter the storm drain system, regardless of whether such pipe, open channel,
drain or conveyance has been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an
authorized enforcement agency; or
      (2)   Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance connected to the
municipal separate storm sewer system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A sewage disposal system, other than a
public or community system, which receives sewage from an individual
establishment. Unless otherwise indicated, the word SYSTEM as it appears in
this chapter means INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) under
authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge
of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable
on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A conveyance or system of
conveyances designed or used for collecting and/or conveying stormwater,
including but not limited to any roads with drainage systems, highways,
municipal streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains,
pumping facilities, structural stormwater controls, ditches, swales, natural
and man-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage
structures, and which is:
      (1)   Owned or maintained by North St. Paul;
      (2)   Not a combined sewer; and
      (3)   Not part of a Publicly-Owned Treatment Works (POTW) as defined at
40 CFR 122.2.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm sewer system not
composed entirely of stormwater.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: chlorine, paints, varnishes, and solvents;
petroleum hydrocarbons; automotive fluids; cooking grease; detergents
(biodegradable or otherwise); degreasers; cleaning chemicals; non-hazardous
liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or
other discarded or abandoned objects and accumulations, so that same may cause
or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and
fertilizers; liquid and solid wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens;
dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that
result from constructing a building or structure; concrete and cement; and
noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   RAW SEWAGE. Sewage which has not been subjected to any treatment process.
   SEWAGE. Any water-carried domestic waste, exclusive of footing and roof
drainage, of any residence, industry or commercial establishment, whether
treated or untreated, and includes the liquid wastes produced by bathing,
laundry and culinary operations and from toilets and floor drains.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF or STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage
consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and
resulting from such precipitation.
   STRUCTURAL STORMWATER CONTROL. A structural stormwater management facility
or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of
that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period
of release or the velocity of flow.
(`89 Code, § 162.020) (Ord. 657, passed 12-20-2005; Am. Ord. 735, passed 4-21-
2015)
§ 56.02 SUPERVISION OF SYSTEM.
   The Superintendent of the Public Works Department shall have control of the
drainage and sanitary and storm sewer system and all drains and sewers now or
hereafter built or authorized by the city and the building, repair and
maintenance thereof and connections therewith.
(`89 Code, § 160.040) (Am. Ord. 657, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 56.03 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The Council shall by ordinance establish rates and charges for residential,
commercial, industrial and other connections now existing or hereafter made to
the public sanitary and storm sewer system of the city.
(`89 Code, § 160.010) (Am. Ord. 657, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 56.04 SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY.
   (A)   Surface water management shall be operated as a public utility
pursuant to M.S. §444.075, as it may be amended from time to time.
(`89 Code, § 15.010)
   (B)   Surface water management fees. The City Council shall have the
authority to prescribe by ordinance the rates to be charged to all properties
within the city who contribute surface water to the storm sewer system and to
exempt property from such fees and to prescribe the date of billing and
payment, a discount for payment with a prescribed period and/or penalty for
failure to pay within such period and such further rules and regulations
relative to the use and operation of such storm sewer system as it may deem
necessary from time to time.
('89 Code, § 15.020)
   (C)   Surface Water Management Fund. A separate fund shall be maintained for
surface water management fees and expenditures.
('89 Code, § 15.030) (Ord. 657, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 56.05 BILLING.
   All sanitary sewer and surface water management fee charges shall be
collected with and as a part of the city utility bills, but shall be separately
stated thereon.
(`89 Code, § 160.020)
§ 56.06 COLLECTION.
   The water service to any premises may be disconnected upon failure to pay
the sanitary sewer and surface water management charges for the premises. Water
service shall not be resumed until all due sanitary sewer and water bills plus
a connection charge are paid. The sanitary sewer and surface water management
charges shall constitute an indebtedness of the owner of said premises as well
as the occupant thereof who receives sanitary sewer service, and any claim for
unpaid rates or charges which have been properly billed to the occupant of the
premises as part of the utility bill for water services may be thereafter
collected in a civil action brought against the occupant or the owner of said
premises, or both.
(`89 Code, § 160.030)
PERMITS
§ 56.15 PERMIT REQUIRED TO CONNECT SEWERS OR DRAINS.
   No person shall build, repair or extend any sanitary or storm sewer or drain
or connect any sanitary sewer or storm sewer or drain to any public sanitary or
storm sewer or drain without obtaining a permit. Permits shall be issued only
to persons licensed under
Chapter 110.
(`89 Code, § 160.050)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross reference:
   General licensing and regulations, see
Chapter 110
§ 56.16 SEWER ASSESSMENTS MUST BE PAID.
   No permit shall be issued unless all assessments or connection charges for
sanitary sewer construction or such installments thereof as shall be due at the
time such connection is made against the property to be drained shall be paid.
(`89 Code, § 160.060)
§ 56.17 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Application for a permit shall be filed with the City Manager or
designee by the person who shall perform the work. The form of the application
shall be determined by the Manager. A plan shall be submitted with the
application showing the proposed drain from its connection to the public
sanitary sewer to its terminus within the building involved. The location of
all branches, traps and fixtures connected therewith shall be shown. Such
drawings shall be kept by the city as a permanent record.
   (B)   If the proposed sewer complies with the provisions of the code and is
satisfactory to the Manager, the Manager shall issue a permit.
(`89 Code, § 160.070)
§ 56.18 PERMIT FEE.
   Permit fees issued under this chapter shall be as established by Council
ordinance.
(`89 Code, § 160.080)
REQUIREMENTS
§ 56.30 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All connections with the public sanitary or storm sewer shall be made with
such materials as are satisfactory to the State Code. No sanitary or storm
sewer pipe connecting with any public sanitary or storm sewer shall have a fall
of less than one-inch vertical to one-foot horizontal. Where sewer and water
connections to the city systems are laid in the same trench, the sewer
connection shall be of P.V.C. (plastic) of a type approved by the Council.
(`89 Code, § 160.090) (Am. Ord. 657, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 56.31 CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION.
   All pipe shall be inspected by the Manager or designee before it is laid and
be subject to approval. After any connection has been laid from a public
sanitary or storm sewer to the building line, the pipe shall in no instance be
covered until the same has been duly inspected and approved.
(`89 Code, § 160.100)
§ 56.32 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   Every building shall be separately and independently connected with the
public sanitary or storm sewers and drained through one connection for each.
(`89 Code, § 160.120) (Am. Ord. 657, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 56.33 PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall throw, drain, or otherwise discharge, cause, or allow
others under its control to throw, drain, or otherwise discharge into the
municipal separate storm sewer system any pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants, other than stormwater.
   (B)   The following discharges are exempt from the prohibition provision
above:
      (1)   Water line flushing performed by a government agency, other potable
water sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows,
rising ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated
pumped ground water, foundation or footing drains (not including active
groundwater dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning
condensation, springs, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows, and any other
water source not containing pollutants;
      (2)   Discharges or flows from fire fighting, and other discharges
specified in writing by North St. Paul as being necessary to protect public
health and safety;
      (3)   The prohibition provision above shall not apply to any non-
stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit or order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the MPCA and the Federal
Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been
granted for any discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer system.
(Ord. 657, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 56.34 PROHIBITION OF ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS.
   The construction, connection, use, maintenance or continued existence of any
illegal connection to the municipal separate storm sewer system is prohibited.
   (A)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illegal
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   (B)   A person violates this chapter if the person connects a line conveying
sewage to the municipal separate storm sewer system, or allows such a
connection to continue.
   (C)   Improper connections in violation of this chapter must be disconnected
and redirected, if necessary, to an approved onsite wastewater management
system or the sanitary sewer system upon approval of North St. Paul.
   (D)   Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps or
equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system, shall be
located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written
notice of violation from the North St. Paul requiring that such locating be
completed. Such notice will specify a reasonable time period within which the
location of the drain or conveyance is to be completed, that the drain or
conveyance be identified as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the
outfall location or point of connection to the storm sewer system, sanitary
sewer system or other discharge point be identified. Results of these
investigations are to be documented and provided to North St. Paul.
(Ord. 657, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 56.35 OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No refuse or solids of any sort obstructive to the flow of stormwater or
wastewater shall be placed, thrown or allowed to enter any public sanitary or
storm sewer or allowed to remain on or in any trap or catch basin so as to
obstruct the sewers. No person shall injure or break or remove any portion of
any catch basin, covering flag, gully grating, flush tank or manhole or any
part of any sewer, nor do any act obstructing or any way interfering with the
use of any sanitary or storm sewer or the flow of stormwater or waste water
through any sewer.
(`89 Code, § 160.130)
§ 56.36 CERTAIN USES PROHIBITED.
   The following substances shall not be discharged into any public sanitary
sewer:
   (A)   Steam exhaust or blow off;
   (B)   No persons(s) shall make any connection from roof down spouts, sump
pumps, foundation drains, area drains, cistern overflows, swimming pools or
other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building sanitary sewer or
indirectly to the city’s sanitary and storm sewer system. Dwellings and other
buildings and structures which require a sump pump system to discharge excess
water because of the infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces and the
like shall have a permanently installed discharge line which shall not at any
time discharge water into the sanitary and storm sewer system. A permanent
installation shall be one which provides for year-round discharge capability to
either the outside of the dwelling, building or structure, is connected to the
city storm sewer or discharges through the curb and gutter to the street. It
shall consist of a rigid discharge line, without valving or quick connections
for altering the path of discharge, and if connected to the city storm sewer
line shall include a check valve:
      (1)   Every person owning improved real estate in the city shall allow an
employee of the city of their designated representative to inspect the
buildings to confirm that there is no sump pump or other prohibited discharge
into the sanitary and storm sewer system. Any person refusing to allow their
property to be inspected within 14 days of the date city employee(s) or their
designated representatives are denied admittance to the property shall
immediately become subject to the surcharge hereinafter provided for. Any
property owner whose property is found in violation of this portion of this
chapter shall make the necessary changes to comply with this chapter and shall
furnish proof of those changes to the city;
      (2)   If the city has reason to suspect that an illegal connection may
exist in a premises, the property owner will receive written notice to comply
with the provisions of this chapter. Should a property certified in compliance
with this chapter later be found to have reconnected a roof drain, sump pump or
any other form of natural precipitation to the sanitary and storm sewer system,
the property owner will be subject to the surchage for all months between the
last two inspections;
      (3)   A surcharge of $100 per month is imposed and added to every
sanitary sewer billing mailed on and after September 30, 1997, to each property
owner not in compliance with this chapter. The surcharge shall be added every
month until the property is in compliance with this chapter. The imposition of
the surcharge shall not limit the city’s authority to prosecute the criminal
violations, seek an injunction in district court ordering the person to
disconnect the nonconforming connection to the sanitary sewer or for the city
to correct the violation and certify the costs of connection as an assessment
against the property on which the connection is made;
      (4)   The Council may, by resolution, provide for waivers for hardships
from the requirements of this section;
   (C)   Waste containing any product not allowed by Metropolitan Council
Environmental Services;
   (D)   Refuse from butcher shops, rendering establishments, packing houses
and other industrial establishments. Such refuse must be caught by some form of
catch basin or grated slop basin;
   (E)   Refuse, solid or liquid, of any character, quality or nature that will
unreasonably interfere with the ordinary treatment processes of any sewage
treatment plant used by the city.
(`89 Code, § 160.140) (Am. Ord. 657, passed 12-20-2005)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 56.37 INSPECTION AND REPAIR OF CONNECTING DRAINS.
   The Manager, or designee, shall have the right to enter upon any commercial
or industrial premises at any reasonable hour to inspect the sewers and drains
and traps and fixtures connected therewith. If it shall be found from such
inspection or otherwise that the provisions of this code are not being complied
with or that any part of the drainage system is in need of clearing out or
repairs, a written notice shall be served as soon as possible upon the owner,
the occupant and the person in charge of the premises specifying the work
necessary to be done to make the sanitary and storm sewer system comply with
this code or to put it in good workable condition. The notice shall specify
such time as is reasonable, considering the amount of work to be done and the
nature of the emergency within which the defects must be remedied. It shall be
the duty of every person served with such a notice to comply therewith. The
city may cause the work to be done at the expense of the person who served, if
the defects are not remedied within the time stated in the notice.
(`89 Code, § 160.150) (Am. Ord. 657, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 56.38 NOTIFICATION OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES AND SPILLS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility, activity or operation, or responsible for emergency
response for a facility, activity or operation has information of any known or
suspected release of pollutants or non-stormwater discharges from that facility
or operation which are resulting or may result in illicit discharges or
pollutants discharging into stormwater, the municipal separate storm sewer
system or waters of the state, said person shall take all necessary steps to
ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release so as to
minimize the effects of the discharge.
   (B)   Said person shall notify the authorized enforcement agency in person
or by phone, facsimile or in person no later than 24 hours of the nature,
quantity and time of occurrence of the discharge. Notifications in person or by
phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to North St.
Paul within three business days of the phone or in person notice. If the
discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an
on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years. Said
person shall also take immediate steps to ensure no recurrence of the discharge
or spill.
   (C)   In the event of such a release of hazardous materials, emergency
response agencies and/or other appropriate agencies shall be immediately
notified.
   (D)   Failure to provide notification of a release as provided above is a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 657, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 56.39 UTILITIES ALONG BORDERLINE STREETS.
   (A)   This section shall provide standards, establish uniform practices and
implement cooperative administration between the cities of Maplewood and North
St. Paul in all matters pertaining to sewers and other utilities lying upon
streets located along their continuous common borderlines.
   (B)   Sanitary sewers shall be installed on the centerline of borderline
streets, and the service therefrom shall be available to properties in both
municipalities. Water and gas lines shall likewise be installed in such a
manner as to provide service to properties in both municipalities.
   (C)   All plans adopted for any improvement within the dedicated right-of-
way of any borderline street common to both municipalities shall be subject to
approval of the engineering department of both municipalities.
   (D)   Whenever any improvement can be jointly undertaken by both
municipalities, such procedure will be followed so that all benefitted property
can be assessed. If the improvement must be done by one city instead of both,
the benefit to property in the adjoining city which cannot be assessed by the
city which has undertaken the improvement will be subject to connection fees in
an amount equal to what the original assessment would have been had the
property been subject to assessment, provided that as to street construction no
such charge as a connection charge shall apply. Whenever property in one
municipality is subject to a connection charge by the other municipality, as
hereinbefore provided, the municipality in which such property is located shall
not issue a building permit or other privilege to the owner of said property
without first notifying the other municipality. Failure to give such notice
shall render the municipality in which the property is located subject to and
liable for payment of such connection charge to the other municipality if the
property owner fails to pay same.
   (E)   All users of utilities shall pay service charges for the use thereof
to the municipality which maintains the utility lines; provided that existing
users of a sanitary sewer in North St. Paul, whose property is located in North
St. Paul, shall pay no greater charge for sewer service than what the City of
North St. Paul charges its resident sanitary sewer users. It is intended that
SERVICE CHARGE, as used in the preceding sentence, means the total of the
annual maintenance charge payable to the Metropolitan Council, the annual
service charge payable to the Metropolitan Council and the local annual
maintenance charge imposed by North St. Paul.
   (F)   Storm sewer facilities for area drainage affecting or involving
borderline streets shall be subject to approval by both municipalities. The
cost of such storm sewers shall be shared by both municipalities. The basis
upon which the costs of such storm sewers shall be distributed and shared
between these municipalities shall be proportional to the amount of square
footage of the respective drainage areas lying within the separate
municipalities.
(`89 Code, § 160.160)
§ 56.40 INDUSTRIAL USER STRENGTH CHARGE.
   (A)   There is approved, adopted and established, in addition to the sewer
charge based upon the volume of discharge, a sewer charge upon each person,
company or corporation receiving waste treatment services within or served by
the city, based upon strength of industrial waste discharged into the sanitary
and storm sewer system of the city.
   (B)   The provisions of the current resolution adopted by the Metropolitan
Council governing board, which provides for the establishment of a formula to
determine pollution qualities and quantities of the sewage used by the
industrial user in excess of an annual average base and the proportionate costs
of operation and maintenance of waste treatment services provided by said
Council, are incorporated in and made a part of this chapter as completely as
if set out here in full.
   (C)   The strength charge established by division (A) of this section shall
be paid by each industrial user receiving waste treatment services and subject
thereto before the twentieth day next succeeding the date of billing thereof to
such user by or on behalf of the city, and such payment thereof shall be deemed
to be delinquent if not so paid to the billing entity before such date.
Furthermore, if such payment is not paid before such date, an industrial user
shall pay interest per month on the unpaid balance due at the highest rate
allowed by law.
   (D)   If payment of the strength charge established by division (A) of this
section is not paid before the sixtieth day next succeeding the date of billing
thereof to the industrial user by or on behalf of the city, the delinquent
sewer strength charge, plus accrued interest established pursuant to division
(C) of this section, shall be deemed to be a charge against the owner, lessee
and occupant of the property served, and the city shall certify such unpaid
delinquent balance to the County Auditor, with taxes against the property
served for collection as other taxes are collected; provided, however, that
such certification shall not preclude the city from recovery of such delinquent
sewer strength charge and interest thereon under any other available remedy.
(`89 Code, § 160.150) (Am. Ord. 657, passed 12-20-2005)
INDIVIDUAL SANITARY AND STORM SEWER SYSTEM
§ 56.50 OBJECTIVES.
   The main objective of the city is to eliminate all individual sewer systems
as soon as possible. The objectives of this chapter are to provide adequate and
safe methods of sewage disposal and to prevent the contamination of any
existing or future sewage disposal system.
(`89 Code, § 162.010)
§ 56.51 MINNESOTA CODE ADOPTED.
   The provisions of Minn. Rules Chapter 7080, Individual Sewage Treatment
Systems Program, as they may be amended from time to time, are adopted by
reference. The City Manager shall mark one copy of these Rules as the official
copy and file it in his or her office for use and examination.
(`89 Code, § 162.030)
§ 56.52 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall install, alter, repair or extend any individual sewage
disposal system in the city if connection to the city sewer service is
available. If connection to the city sanitary and storm sewer system is
unavailable, no person shall install, repair or extend any individual sewage
disposal system in the city without first obtaining a permit therefor from the
engineer for the specific installation, alteration, repair or extension. At the
time of applying for said permit, a fee to be established by Council resolution
shall be paid. The permits shall be valid for a period of six months from date
of issue. Application for a permit shall be made in writing upon printed blanks
or forms furnished by the City Manager and shall be signed by the applicant.
   (B)   Each application for a permit shall have thereon the correct legal
description of the property on which the proposed installation, alteration,
repair or extension is to take place, and each application for a permit shall
be accompanied by a plot plan of the land showing the location of any proposed
or existing building located on the property with respect to the boundary lines
of the property and complete plans of the proposed system with substantiating
data, if necessary, attesting to the compliance with the minimum standards of
this chapter. A complete plan shall include the location, size and design of
all parts of the system to be installed, altered, repaired or extended. The
application shall also show the present or proposed location of water supply
facilities and water supply piping and the name of the person who is to install
the system and shall provide such further information as may be required by the
Council.
   (C)   If improvements to an individual sewage disposal system, to the lot on
which the system lies, to the structures which contribute waste to the system
or any other activity requiring a permit, variance or other review by the city
are required or proposed, arrangements must be made to connect with the city
sanitary and storm sewer system, if available, in accordance with this chapter.
(`89 Code, §162.040) (Am. Ord. 657, passed 12-20-2005)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 56.53 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   At least once a year the owner of any septic tank shall measure or
arrange for measurement of the depth of sludge and scum in such septic tank and
be able to provide written documentation that the inspection was made. When, as
a result of such measurement, the top of the sludge layer in the tank or any
compartment of the tank is found to be less than 12 inches below the bottom of
the outlet baffle or submerged pipe, or if the bottom of the scum layer is less
than three inches above the bottom of the septic tank outlet baffle or
submerged pipe, the owner shall arrange for the removal and sanitary disposal
of sludge and scum from the tank, provided that such requirement for measuring
shall be waived for any septic tank which is cleaned as indicated at least once
each calendar year.
   (B)   At least once each year the owner of the septic system equipped with a
distribution box shall arrange for the opening of the distribution box and
removal of any settled solids therein. Such material shall be disposed of to
the septic tank or by other means acceptable to the Council.
   (C)   At least once between May 1 and June 30 of each year, the depth of
liquid in each seepage pit shall be measured. When, as a result of such
measurement it is found that the liquid level in the pit is less than one foot
below the inlet, a second measurement shall be made eight to 12 hours after the
first measurement, during which time no liquid shall be discharged to the
seepage pit. If, as a result of the second measurement, it is found that the
liquid level in the pit has not lowered at least two feet during the indicated
period of time, either arrangements must be made to connect with the city
sanitary and storm sewer system in accordance with this chapter or an
additional seepage pit or other acceptable soil absorption system shall be
provided if connection with the city sanitary and storm sewer system is
unavailable.
(`89 Code, § 162.050) (Am. Ord. 657, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 56.54 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Whenever the city finds that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the
city may order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible
person. Such notice may require without limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analysis, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the written notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said written notice shall further
advise that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the
established deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental agency
or a contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
   (B)    Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a written notice
of violation may appeal the determination of the authorized enforcement agency.
A written notice of appeal must be received within 15 days from the date of the
notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate authority or
his/her designee shall take place within 30 days from the date of receipt of
the written notice of appeal. The decision of the municipal authority or their
designee shall be final.
   (C)   Enforcement measures after appeal.  If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the written notice of
violation, or, in the event of a written appeal, within 15 days of the decision
of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the authorized enforcement
agency, then representatives of the authorized enforcement agency shall enter
upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any and all
measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall
be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any
premises to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contractor to
enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
   (D)   Cost of abatement of the violation. Within 30 days after abatement of
the violation, the owner of the property will receive written notification of
the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner may
file a written protest objecting to the amount of the assessment within 15
days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as determined by the
decision of the municipal authority or by the expiration of the time in which
to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the
property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the
assessment.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become
liable to the city by reason of such violation.
   (E)    Injunctive relief. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a
person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the
authorized enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent
injunction restraining the person from activities which would create further
violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the
violation.
   (F)    Compensatory action. In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties,
and remedies authorized by this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may
impose upon a violator alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain
stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc.
   (G)   Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement
processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is a threat to public
health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be
summarily abated or restored at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action
to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be
taken.
   (H)   Criminal prosecution. Any person that has violated or continues to
violate this chapter shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest
extent of the law, and shall be subject to a criminal penalty of $1,000 per
violation per day and/or imprisonment for a period of time not to exceed 90
days.
   (I)    Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law and it is within the discretion of the authorized enforcement
agency to seek cumulative remedies. The authorized enforcement agency may
recover all attorney's fees, court costs and other expenses associated with
enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 735, passed 4-21-2015)
CHAPTER 57: WATER SERVICE UTILITY
Section
General Provisions
   
57.01   Supervision of system
   
57.02   Rates and charges
   
57.03   Application for service
   
57.04   Water Department services
   
57.05   Service connection specifications and repairs
Regulations; Requirements
   
57.20   Tampering with stop cocks
   
57.21   Determination and payment of costs
   
57.22   Water assessment must be paid
   
57.23   Installation of large service connections
   
57.24   Meters
   
57.25   Meter testing and adjustment
   
57.26   Authorization required for certain acts
   
57.27   Resale
   
57.28   Separate services
   
57.29   Waste of water
   
57.30   Payment due without bill
   
57.31   Access to premises
   
57.32   Lawn sprinkling
   
57.33   Shut off of water
   
57.34   Claims
   
57.35   Fire supplies
   
57.36   Hydrants and gate valve
   
57.37   Damage to water system
Individual Water Systems
   
57.50   Objective
   
57.51   Plumbing Code adopted by reference
   
57.52   Permit required; application
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 57.01 SUPERVISION OF SYSTEM.
   The Superintendent of the Public Works Department shall have general
supervision and control of all public water mains and connections thereto, and
no connections shall be to said system without a written permit from the
Superintendent or the Council, pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted by
the Council.
(`89 Code, § 161.020)
§ 57.02 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The Council shall by ordinance establish rates and charges for residential,
commercial, industrial and other connections now existing or hereafter made to
the public water system of the city.
(`89 Code, § 161.020)
§ 57.03 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for water service must state fully and truly the purpose
for which the same is to be used, together with the proper legal description of
the property and the street and official house number of the premises to be
supplied. The application must answer, without concealment, all questions put
to them relating to the use of water. Applications and all information
furnished shall be in affidavit form when required by the Water Department.
   (B)   The applicant must distinctly state and mark on the sketch made a part
of the application the point on the property line where the service is to enter
the premises. No service cock shall be installed under concrete walks, steps or
other permanent structures, either constructed or contemplated, between the
property line and the buildings to be supplied. The point where the service is
to enter the property must be distinctly marked by stake by the owner or agent
before the service will be installed and must be in the location designated in
the application.
   (C)   If connection to the city water supply system will replace an
individual water supply system, the individual water supply system must be
abandoned in accordance with the practices approved by Ramsey County and the
Minnesota Health Department.
(`89 Code, § 161.030)
§ 57.04 WATER DEPARTMENT SERVICES.
   The Water Department is authorized to render special service in connection
with the furnishing of water, repairing water meters damaged by frost and other
similar services pursuant to rules and regulations, prices and terms determined
from time to time by the Council. Charges for such services shall be a
continuing lien, until paid, upon the property served.
(`89 Code, § 161.040)
§ 57.05 SERVICE CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS AND REPAIRS.
   (A)   The stop cock or corporation cock at the main and the curb cock at the
sidewalk or curb shall be standard bronze. The curb cock shall have a cast iron
box or cover. The pipe between the stop cocks at the main and the sidewalk
shall be of approved copper or alloy pipe. Where the sewer and water
connections are laid in the same trench, the water connection must be of copper
pipe of a quality approved by the Council and the sewer connection of cast iron
pipe or tubing approved by the Council.
   (B)   Sewer and water service from a building to the connection at the main
are owned by the property owners and they are responsible for all repairs and
maintenance except for the operation of the curbstop.
(`89 Code, § 161.050)
REGULATIONS; REQUIREMENTS
§ 57.20 TAMPERING WITH STOP COCKS.
   No person shall tamper or interfere with the stop cocks at the main and
sidewalk or with the box and cover.
(`89 Code, § 161.060)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 57.21 DETERMINATION AND PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   Where rates are fixed or cost of water services of any kind are estimated,
payment must be made at the time the application is submitted and before the
service is installed. No water will be turned on until all charges against the
premises are paid, including water used for building purposes, except by
special arrangement with the Council.
(`89 Code, § 161.070)
§ 57.22 WATER ASSESSMENT MUST BE PAID.
   No building permit shall be issued unless all assessments or connection
charges or such installments thereof as shall be due are paid in full or up to
date.
(`89 Code, § 161.080)
§ 57.23 INSTALLATION OF LARGE SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   Service connections two inches or larger will be installed only after the
application has been approved by the Water Department and the estimated cost of
same has been paid.
(`89 Code, § 161.090)
§ 57.24 METERS.
   (A)   A sealed meter with a remote reader must be installed on all services
laid and put in service. All meters installed on services will be furnished,
sealed by and remain the property of the city. The supply of water through each
separate service must be recorded by one meter only, for which one account will
be rendered by the Water Department. If additional or auxiliary meters are
desired for recording the subdivision of such supply, they must be furnished
and set at the expense of the owner or consumer, and he or she must assume all
responsibilities for reading and maintaining the same.
   (B)   Meters must at all times be easily accessible so that they may be
examined, serviced and read by the employees of the Water Department. They must
not be exposed to danger from frost or contamination and must be placed
adjacent to a floor drain and not in a crawl space or under a stair well. No
person shall cover or obstruct any water meter, either permanently or
temporarily. The owner shall be held responsible for the intactness of the
meter seals.
   (C)   If meters are damaged by freezing, hot water or other causes, either
by carelessness or neglect of the owner or occupants of the premises or their
agents, the owners of the premises must pay for the repairs of such damage. The
cost of ordinary maintenance and repairs will be born by the Water Department.
In case of breakage, stoppage or other irregularity in the meter, the owner or
consumer shall notify the Water Department immediately, and any necessary
repairs will be made by the Department.
   (D)   In case of the failure of the meter to register, the bill for the
current period will be determined by averaging the bills of the customer for
like periods if possible.
   (E)   The repair and disconnection of all meters shall be performed only by
employees of the Water Department.
(`89 Code, § 161.100)
§ 57.25 METER TESTING AND ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   At the written request of the owner or consumer, the Water Department
will test the meter supplying the premises. A deposit to be set by Council
ordinance will be required before the meter is disconnected, which sum will not
be refunded if the meter is found to be registering within 4%; otherwise the
deposit will be returned to the party making the same. The owner or consumer
can, if desired, be present at the time the test is made. The result of the
test will be reported to the owner or consumer in every case.
   (B)   If the testing of the meter shows that it fails to register correctly
within 4%, the charge to the consumer will be adjusted accordingly as the
registration varies from 100% and such adjustment shall apply to the current
period only, unless it is apparent to the Council that a previous period’s
consumption has also been affected by the same incorrect registration. When it
is impracticable to make adjustment as indicated above, the charge shall be
equitably adjusted by the Council. All adjustments for charges for water shall
be made by ordinance of the Council.
(`89 Code, § 161.110)
§ 57.26 AUTHORIZATION REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN ACTS.
   Only persons authorized by a permit shall turn on or shut off the water
supply at any stop cock at the main or at the curb or allow any person in his
or her employ so to do, nor shall he or she have in his or her possession any
tool or instrument for that purpose. Only persons authorized by a permit will
be allowed to tap any main or do any excavation or any street work in
connection with the laying, installation, extending or repairing of any water
service, water pipe or water appurtenances without the permission of the Water
Department.
(`89 Code, § 161.120)
§ 57.27 RESALE.
   No consumer, without obtaining the written consent in advance of the Water
Department, shall furnish water to any other person or property or permit any
other person to take it himself or herself.
(`89 Code, § 161.130)
§ 57.28 SEPARATE SERVICES.
   Every separate building supplied with water shall have its own separate
service connection directly with the main, except private garages and barns. If
more than one tenant is supplied by a street service, the property owner must
apportion the charge to each tenant, if that person so desires. The Water
Department will not apportion such charges.
(`89 Code, § 161.140)
§ 57.29 WASTE OF WATER.
   No person shall waste water by permitting it to run through a faucet or
fixture to prevent it from freezing or by permitting water to run longer than
is necessary in its proper use. The Water Department is authorized and required
to restrain and prevent all wastage of water.
(`89 Code, § 161.150)
§ 57.30 PAYMENT DUE WITHOUT BILL.
   Failure of a customer or owner to receive a bill for current water charges
will not entitle the owner or customer to a remission of any penalty for
failure to pay the same promptly.
(`89 Code, § 161.160)
§ 57.31 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   Inspectors of the Water Department, or any person duly authorized by the
Council, must have free access at all reasonable times to all parts of every
building for the purpose of inspecting, removing and replacing meters,
examining water fixtures and observing the manner in which water is used.
(`89 Code, § 161.170)
§ 57.32 LAWN SPRINKLING.
   The use of water for lawn sprinkling purposes shall at all times be subject
to limitation as to time and duration of use when in the opinion of the Council
such limitation is necessary on account of emergency or for public benefit. The
Council or designee may, when conditions make it necessary or advisable, forbid
the use of water for sprinkling.
(`89 Code, § 161.180)
§ 57.33 SHUT OFF OF WATER.
   (A)   (1)   The Water Department shall comply with the written request of
the owner of a premises receiving water service or the request of a duly
authorized agent to shut off the water service, providing shut off of water
service is not for the sole purpose of evicting an occupant from the premises.
The Council may at any time shut off the water service for the purpose of
extending, replacing, repairing or cleaning of mains and appurtenances, and in
addition for the following reasons:
         (a)   The property is vacant;
         (b)   The property is unsecured;
         (c)   The property is determined to be uninhabitable or unsuitable for
occupancy;
         (d)   Other utilities to the property providing heat and/or light have
been shut off;
         (e)   The property has a plumbing system that is failing or unsafe;
and/or
         (f)   That running water to the property creates an unsanitary or
unsafe condition to anyone who may enter the property.
      (2)   The council shall not be held liable for any damage arising
therefrom.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
57.28,
57.30 or
57.31 or who fails to comply with any rule or regulation of the Council
covering payments for water or water services may be denied the use of water,
and the connections to the premises may be disconnected.
(`89 Code, § 161.190) (Am. Ord. 684, passed 10-6-2009)
§ 57.34 CLAIMS.
   No claims shall be made against the city by reason of the breaking of any
service pipe or connection or any interruption to the water service.
(`89 Code, § 161.200)
§ 57.35 FIRE SUPPLIES.
   The Council will render a special service to private property for private
fire protection purposes upon application. Cost of such service will be based
upon the size of the service connection and the cost of special services
rendered.
(`89 Code, § 161.210)
§ 57.36 HYDRANTS AND GATE VALVE.
   No person shall without authority use, tamper or interfere with any fire or
street hydrant or water main gate valve. The Water Department may permit water
to be used temporarily from any fire hydrant for nondomestic purposes in
localities where no other supply can be obtained. In such cases, a reducer
shall be attached to one of the hydrant openings and the supply controlled by
means of a small valve and meter, which can be obtained from the Water
Department.
(`89 Code, § 161.220)
§ 57.37 DAMAGE TO WATER SYSTEM.
   No person shall willfully use and appropriate the water or any portion
thereof from the works operated by the Council without authority to do so,
shall corrupt or render the water impure or shall destroy or injure any canal,
aqueduct, pipe, conduit, machinery or other property used or required for
procuring or distributing the water.
(`89 Code, § 161.230)
Penalty, see § 10.99
INDIVIDUAL WATER SYSTEMS
§ 57.50 OBJECTIVE.
   The main objective of the city is to eliminate all individual water systems
as soon as possible.
(`89 Code, § 163.010)
§ 57.51 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The State Plumbing Code is herein adopted by reference.
(`89 Code, § 163.020)
§ 57.52 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   No person shall install, alter, repair or extend an individual water system
in the city if connection to the city water system is available. If connection
to the city water system is unavailable, no person shall install, alter, repair
or extend an individual water system without first obtaining a permit therefor
from the City Engineer. If improvements to an individual water system, to the
lot on which the system lies, to the structures which utilize the system or any
other activity requiring a permit, variance or other review by the city are
required or desired, arrangements must be made to connect with the city water
system, if available, in accordance with this chapter. If connection to the
city water supply system will replace an individual water supply system, the
individual water supply system must be abandoned in accordance with practices
approved by Ramsey County and the Minnesota Health Department.
(`89 Code, § 163.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 58: ELECTRIC SERVICE UTILITY
Section
   
58.01   Authority to own and operate
   
58.02   Supervision of system
   
58.03   Rates and charges
   
58.04   Billing
   
58.05   Collection
   
58.06   Franchise agreement
§ 58.01 AUTHORITY TO OWN AND OPERATE.
   The city owns and operates its own electrical distribution system for
purposes of supplying power to private and public consumers. It may construct
and install facilities reasonably needed for that purpose and may lease or
purchase any existing properties so needed. It may, in lieu of providing for
the local production of electricity, purchase the same wholesale and resell it
to local consumers. After any such utility has been acquired, the Council,
except as its powers have been limited through establishment of a public
utilities commission in the city, shall make all necessary rules and
regulations for the protection, maintenance, operation, extension, and
improvement thereof and for the sale of utility products.
§ 58.02 SUPERVISION OF SYSTEM.
   The Director of the Electric Service Utility shall have control over the
electric service authorized by the city and building, repair and maintenance
thereof and connections therewith. The Electric Superintendent shall report to
the City Manager.
§ 58.03 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The Council shall by ordinance establish rates and charges for residential,
commercial, industrial and other connections now existing or hereafter made to
the public utilities of the city.
§ 58.04 BILLING.
   All electric charges shall be collected with and as a part of the city
utility bills, but shall be separately stated thereon.
§ 58.05 COLLECTION.
   The electric service to any premises may be disconnected upon failure to pay
the electric charge for the premises. Service shall not be resumed until all
due bills plus a connection charge are paid. The electric charge shall
constitute an indebtedness of the owner of the premises as well as the occupant
thereof who receives electric service, and any claim for unpaid rates or
charges which have been properly billed to the occupant of the premises as part
of the utility bill for electric services may be thereafter collected in a
civil action brought against the occupant or the owner of the premises, or
both.
§ 58.06 FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   The Electric Utility shall have use of the city owned, leased or easemented
real property, rights-of- way or buildings as provided in a franchise
agreement.
CHAPTER 59: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Reserved.
CHAPTER 60: CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECKS
Section
   
60.01   Findings
   
60.02   Definitions
   
60.03   Employment background investigations
   
60.04   City license holder or applicant background investigations
§ 60.01 FINDINGS.
   (A)   State law requires that thorough background investigations be
completed for some city positions, such as peace officers. The City Council
finds that a background investigation on all prospective employees, as well as
city license holders is good practice.
   (B)   Background investigations on all employees and city license holders,
as described herein, will help to protect the reputation of the city by having
knowledge of, and understanding of, prospective employees and city license
holders and their prior history.
   (C)   The background investigation on all prospective employees and city
license holders is intended to ensure the safety and welfare of all residents,
employees, and community members associated with North St. Paul employees, and
city license holders.
(Ord. 680, passed 6-9-09)
§ 60.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION. A background investigation can include, but is not
limited to a computerized criminal history (CCH) check, internet search, press
search, reference check, confirmation of education listed, driving record,
public records, and consumer reports.
   CITY EMPLOYEE or APPLICANT. Any person applying for any full or part time
position, permanent or temporary, to be employed by the city, or volunteers
working for or with city employees who may be working with children or
vulnerable adults, or may have access to any records or data kept by the city.
   CITY LICENSE HOLDER or APPLICANT. Any person(s), corporation, or
partnership, applying for or renewing a city license for which a current and
valid city license is required to operate.
(Ord. 680, passed 6-9-09)
§ 60.03 EMPLOYMENT BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Criminal history background investigation. The city Police Department
is hereby required, as the exclusive entity within the city, to do a background
investigation on all city employee applicants, unless the city’s hiring
authority concludes that a background investigation is not needed. Non-CCH
background investigations can be completed by employees designated by the
city’s hiring authority.
   (B)   Access of data. In conducting the criminal history background
investigation in order to screen employment applicants, the Police Department
is authorized to access data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal
Apprehensions (BCA) Computerized Criminal History (CCH) information system in
accordance with BCA policy. Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be
maintained at the Police Department under the care and custody of the Chief Law
Enforcement Officer (CLEO) or the CLEO’s designee. A summary of the results of
the CCH data may be released by the Police Department to the hiring authority,
including the City Council, City Manager, or designated city staff involved in
the hiring process.
   (C)   Authorization. Before the CCH investigation is undertaken, the
applicant must authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake
the investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Chapter 13 regarding the collection, maintenance and use of the
information. Except for those positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, the city
will not reject an applicant for employment on the basis of the applicant’s
prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the position of
employment sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or
misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the applicant on this
basis, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
      (1)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
      (2)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedures set forth in M.S.
§ 364.06;
      (3)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment; and
      (4)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 680, passed 6-9-09)
§ 60.04 CITY LICENSE HOLDER OR APPLICANT BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Criminal History Background Investigation. The city Police Department
is hereby required, as the exclusive entity within the city, to do a background
investigation on all applicants and renewal applicants for which a valid and
current city license is required to operate. Non-CCH background investigations
can be completed by employees designated by the city’s licensing authority.
   (B)   Access of data. In conducting the criminal history background
investigation in order to screen license holders or renewals, the Police
Department is authorized to access data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of
Criminal Apprehensions (BCA) Computerized Criminal History (CCH) information
system in accordance with BCA policy. Any data that is accessed and acquired
shall be maintained at the Police Department under the care and custody of the
Chief Law Enforcement Officer (CLEO) or the CLEO’s designee. A summary of the
results of the CCH data may be released by the Police Department to the
licensing authority, including the City Council, City Manager, or designated
city staff involved in the licensing process.
   (C)   Authorization. Before the CCH investigation is undertaken, the
applicant must authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake
the investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Chapter 13 regarding the collection, maintenance and use of the
information. Except for those positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, the city
will not reject an applicant for employment on the basis of the applicant’s
prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the position of
employment sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or
misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the applicant on this
basis, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
      (1)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
      (2)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedures set forth in M.S.
§ 364.06;
      (3)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment; and
      (4)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 680, passed 6-9-09)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   SNOWMOBILES AND ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES
   
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   State Traffic Code adopted
§ 70.01 STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED.
   The regulatory provisions of M.S. Chapters 168, 169, 170 and 171, each as
amended by subsequent laws of the State of Minnesota, are adopted as a traffic
ordinance regulating the use of highways, streets and alleys within the city
and are incorporated in and made a part of this chapter as completely as if set
out here in full.
(`89 Code, § 120.010)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
71.01   Locking ignition
   
71.02   U turns
   
71.03   Repairs
   
71.04   Backing
   
71.05   Jumping rides
   
71.06   Speed in alleys
   
71.07   Avoiding intersection travel
   
71.08   Unnecessary noise
   
71.09   Controlling loud radios in motor vehicles
   
71.10   Unreasonable acceleration
Weight Restrictions
   
71.25   Weight limitations
   
71.26   Weighing
   
71.27   Special permits
   
71.28   Special road restrictions
   
71.29   Liability for damage
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 LOCKING IGNITION.
   Every person parking a motor vehicle on a public street, alley or parking
lot within the city shall lock the ignition, remove the key and take the same
with him or her.
(`89 Code, § 120.020)
§ 71.02 U TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned around by making a “U” turn upon any street or
highway in the city unless such vehicle shall first proceed to an intersecting
street. Provided, however, that a “U” turn is prohibited at any intersection on
any street or highway in the city where a police officer is stationed, where an
illuminated automatic semaphore signal, a red and white painted stop sign or a
“No U Turn” sign is located at the intersection. The Manager is authorized to
erect signs prohibiting such turns at any intersection where in his or her
judgment such turns would create a traffic hazard.
(`89 Code, § 120.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.03 REPAIRS.
   No person shall repair any vehicle in the street except in an emergency in
which the repair can be completed within 30 minutes.
(`89 Code, § 120.040)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.04 BACKING.
   No person in control of any vehicle shall back said vehicle without ample
warning, and while backing, the driver shall exercise due care so as not to
endanger persons or property, and in no case shall any vehicle be backed around
a corner at or into an intersection of streets or highways.
(`89 Code, § 120.050)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.05 JUMPING RIDES.
   No person shall ride in or jump into or upon any vehicle without the consent
of the driver, and no person shall, when riding, allow any part of the body to
project beyond the limits of any motor vehicle, except when signaling according
to law, nor shall any person board or alight from, nor hang onto any motor
vehicle, when such motor vehicle is in motion. This section shall not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles.
(`89 Code, § 120.060)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.06 SPEED IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on any public alley in the city at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the circumstances and in no event
at a speed greater than ten miles per hour.
(`89 Code, § 120.070)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.07 AVOIDING INTERSECTION TRAVEL.
   No person shall drive a vehicle through a private driveway located next to
an intersection so as to avoid using the intersection.
(`89 Code, § 120.080)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.08 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE.  A Dynamic Brake, Jake Brake, Jacobs Brake, C-
Brake, Paccar Brake, transmission brake or other similar engine retarding brake
system which alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases that compression.
      ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE.  
         (a)   Distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort and repose of any person or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s value;
         (b)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.69, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires every motor vehicle to be equipped
with a muffler in good working order; or
         (c)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.693 and Minn.
Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as this statute and these rules may be
amended from time to time, which establish motor vehicle noise standards.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust or permit
the discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle except through a muffler
that effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and complies with all
applicable state laws and regulations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to intentionally
use an engine retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot or
alley within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise from the engine
because of an illegally modified or defective exhaust system, except in an
emergency.
   (D)   M.S. § 169.69 and 169.693 (motor vehicle noise limits) and Minn. Rules
parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as these statutes and rules may be amended
from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference.
   (E)   Signs stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” may be installed at
locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise motorists of the
prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign stating “VEHICLE
NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” shall be installed on a state highway without a permit
from the Minnesota Department of Transportation. The provisions of this section
are in full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
(`89 Code, § 120.090)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.09 CONTROLLING LOUD RADIOS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   All operations of any motor vehicle radio receiving set, tape player,
compact disc player, paging system or any other device for the production or
reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to
unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person nearby or at a
distance of 25 feet or more is prohibited.
(`89 Code, § 120.091)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.10 UNREASONABLE ACCELERATION.
   No person shall start, drive, move or accelerate any motor vehicle with
unnecessary speed or with an unnecessary exhibition of speed on any public or
private roadway or parking lot within the city limits. Prima facie evidence of
such unnecessary speed shall be unreasonable squealing or screeching sounds
emitted by the tires, tire marks on the pavement caused by such acceleration or
the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires of the vehicle. Motor vehicles for
the purpose of this section shall specifically include automobiles, trucks and
motorcycles.
(`89 Code, § 120.100)
Penalty, see § 10.99
WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.25 WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   No vehicle or combination of vehicles equipped with pneumatic tires shall be
operated upon the highways in the city:
   (A)   Where the gross weight on any wheel exceeds 9,000 pounds;
   (B)   Where the gross weight on any single axle exceeds 18,000 pounds.
(`89 Code, § 122.010)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.26 WEIGHING.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle is unlawful is authorized to require the driver to submit to a weighing
of the vehicle either by means of portable or stationary scales and may require
that such vehicle be driven to the nearest scales in the event such scales are
within five miles.
   (B)   When an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load as above provided,
determines that the weight of any axle exceeds the lawful weight or that the
weight on any group of two consecutive axles spaced six feet or less apart
exceed their lawful weight or that the weight is unlawful on any axle or group
of consecutive axles on any road restricted under § 71.28, the officer may
require the driver to stop the vehicle in a suitable place and remain standing
until such portion of the load is removed as may be necessary to reduce the
gross weight of such vehicle to a permissible limit. All materials so unloaded
shall be cared for by the owner or driver of such vehicle at the risk of the
owner or driver.
   (C)   No vehicle driver shall fail or refuse to stop and to submit the
vehicle to a weighing or to otherwise comply with the provisions of this
section.
(`89 Code, § 122.020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.27 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   The City Manager or designee upon application in writing and for good cause
may issue a special permit, in writing, authorizing the applicant to move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load
exceeding the maximum specified in this chapter. The application for any such
permit shall specifically describe the vehicle or vehicles and loads to be
moved and the particular highways for which permit to so use is requested and
the period of time for which such permit is requested. The City Manager or
designee is authorized to issue or withhold such permit at discretion and, if
necessary, to insure against undue damage to road foundations, surfaces or
structures and may require such security as may be deemed necessary to
compensate for any injury to any roadway or road structure. Every such permit
shall be carried in the vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers
and shall be open to inspection by any police officer. No person shall violate
any of the terms or conditions of the special permit.
(`89 Code, § 122.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.28 SPECIAL ROAD RESTRICTIONS.
   The Council is authorized, by published resolution, to prohibit the
operation of trucks or other commercial vehicles or to impose limitations as to
weight thereof on any highway, street, alley or roadway within the city
whenever any such highway, street, alley or roadway, by reason of
deterioration, rain, frost, snow or other climactic conditions, will be
seriously damaged or destroyed, unless the use of vehicles thereon is
prohibited or the permissible weights thereof reduced. Prohibitions or
restrictions shall not be effective unless and until signs are posted on the
designated highways, streets, alleys or roadways.
(`89 Code, § 122.040)
§ 71.29 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE.
   Any person driving a vehicle in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter shall be liable for all street damage resulting from such act. When
the person is driving the vehicle in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter with the express or implied consent of the owner, the owner and
driver shall be jointly and severally liable for all resulting street damage.
(`89 Code, § 122.050)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Parking restricted in Business District
   
72.02   Winter parking
   
72.03   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
   
72.04   Restrictions on certain vehicles
   
72.05   Manner of parking
   
72.06   Parking restricted
   
72.07   Parking prohibited
   
72.08   Parking privileges for the physically handicapped
   
72.09   Motorcycle parking
   
72.10   Enforcement
Cross reference:
   Parking schedules, see
Chapter 74
§ 72.01 PARKING RESTRICTED IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Council shall have the authority, by resolution, to restrict the
parking of any motor vehicle, trailer, snowmobile or bike of any kind in the
Business District of the city, and no person in charge of the vehicle, or the
owner, shall permit the vehicle to be parked in violation of said resolution.
   (B)   For the purpose of this title, the Business District is comprised of
the following: Seventh Avenue from First Street to Division Street; Margaret
Street from Fifth Avenue to the Minnesota State Highway 36; Charles Street from
Eighth Avenue to the Minnesota State Highway 36.
   (C)   Between June 1 and October 1, no vehicle shall park in any parking
stall on the streets of the Business District for more than two hours between
the times of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
(`89 Code, § 121.010) (Am. Ord. 819, passed 6-20-2023)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.02 WINTER PARKING.
   No person in charge of any vehicle, trailer or implement shall park or
permit such vehicle, trailer or implement to stand or remain on any street or
alley, except in compliance with the direction of a police officer or in
compliance with regulatory parking signs on:
   (A)   Any street or alley between the dates of November 1 and March 31
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   (B)   Following the accumulation of two or more inches of snow, it shall be
unlawful for any person to park such vehicle, trailer or implement on the
street or alley until snow removal has been completed curb to curb on said
streets or alleys;
   (C)   Any street, between the date of November 1 and March 31, which the
Council has, by resolution, directed that parking be limited to one side only
or that parking be eliminated altogether. The resolutions to be in effect eight
hours after the designated streets have been posted.
(`89 Code, § 121.020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.03 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this chapter is declared a nuisance
and the same may be summarily abated by removing such vehicle by or under the
direction of or at the request of any police officer to a place of storage by
means of a towing truck or otherwise or said police officer may require the
driver or owner to remove said vehicle off the paved, improved or traveled
portion of said street.
   (B)   Before the owner or agent shall be permitted to remove a vehicle from
said place of storage, they shall:
      (1)   Furnish satisfactory evidence to the Chief of Police and the person
in charge of said storage area of his or her identity and ownership of the
vehicle;
      (2)   Pay to the person in charge of said storage area for the towing and
storage of the vehicle such sums of money as the Council shall establish by
resolution, upon completion of a bidding process;
      (3)   Sign a written receipt for the vehicle.
   (C)   The removal of a vehicle which is parked in violation of this chapter
by or under the direction of or at the request of any police officer shall not
prevent a prosecution for violation of any provision of this chapter.
(`89 Code, § 121.030)
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall park a commercial vehicle as defined in
Chapter 154 for more than two hours at a time on any street in any area zoned
in whole or in part for residential use under the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to commercial vehicles being actively
loaded or unloaded; vehicles rendering a service; emergency vehicles of the
Police Department, Fire Department, or Division of Public Health; any public
utility vehicle where actually engaged in the performance of emergency duties
necessary to be performed by such public departments or public utilities; or to
any vehicle owned by or performing work for the United States, the state, or
the city. No person shall park a recreational vehicle as defined in
Chapter 154 for more than two hours at a time on any street in any area zoned
in whole or in part for residential use under the provisions of this code.
      (2)   This section does not apply to vehicles being actively loaded or
unloaded.
   (C)   Refer to §
154.010 for additional vehicular regulations.
(`89 Code, § 121.040) (Am. Ord. 799, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 72.05 MANNER OF PARKING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle other than so it is headed in the
direction of traffic moving on the side of the street on which it is parked.
(`89 Code, § 121.050)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.06 PARKING RESTRICTED.
   No person in charge of any vehicle or trailer operable or inoperable shall
park or permit such vehicle or trailer to stand on any city property or city
parking lots for more than 12 hours during any 24 hour period. Permits to so
park may be granted by the Manager to those persons who are doing work for the
city.
(`89 Code, § 121.060)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.07 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle in any of the following places:
   (A)   Within a designated or marked bus stop or cab zone;
   (B)   In a public alley;
   (C)   At any place where public curbs are painted yellow;
   (D)   On any street or highway for a period of more than 12 hours.
   (E)   Where temporary and fixed signs, installed or authorized by the city,
prohibit parking as long as such signs are in place;
   (F)   On a boulevard where curbs are present.
(`89 Code, § 121.070) (Am. Ord. 820, passed 8-15-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 PARKING PRIVILEGES FOR THE PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED.
   (A)   Any physically handicapped person who displays prominently upon the
automobile the distinguishing certificate or insignia specified in this section
shall be entitled to park his or her vehicle in the zones designated for
parking for the handicapped in public and private parking lots or along public
streets in the city. The zones shall be established by the Council by
resolution and shall be marked and designated by suitable signs.
   (B)   PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED as used in this section shall include any
person who has sustained an amputation of permanent material disability of
either or both arms or legs or who has been otherwise  permanently disabled in
any manner making it difficult or burdensome for him or her to walk.
   (C)   As used in this section, IDENTIFYING CERTIFICATE means the certificate
issued by the Traffic Division of Public Safety pursuant to M.S. § 169.345, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   If the police of the city shall find that such certificate or insignia
is being improperly used, they shall report to the Motor Vehicle Division of
the Department of Public Safety any such violation.
   (E)   No person shall park a motor vehicle in any zone signed for
handicapped parking only, unless such motor vehicle is displaying an
identifying certificate as provided for in division (C) of this section. In
addition to any misdemeanor charge hereunder, any motor vehicle parked in
violation of this section may be towed away, under the direction of an officer.
   (F)   Any person who is not physically handicapped and does not have the
necessary certificate as required hereunder and who exercises the privileges
granted to the physically handicapped under this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(`89 Code, § 121.090)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.09 MOTORCYCLE PARKING.
   A person parking a motorcycle on the roadway of a street or highway must:
   (A)   If parking in a marked parking space, park the motorcycle completely
within the marked space; and
   (B)   Park the motorcycle in such a way that the front of the motorcycle is
pointed or angled toward the nearest lane of traffic to the extent practicable
and necessary to allow the operator to:
      (1)   View any traffic in both directions of the street or highway
without having to move the motorcycle into a lane of traffic and without losing
balance or control of the motorcycle; and
      (2)   Ride the motorcycle forward and directly into a lane of traffic
when the lane is sufficiently clear of traffic.
§ 72.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   Parking restrictions may be enforced by non- police personnel employed by
the city either full or part-time.
(`89 Code, § 121.100)
CHAPTER 73: SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Incorporation
   
73.02   Unlawful circumstances
   
73.03   Exceptions
   
73.04   Enforcement
§ 73.01 INCORPORATION.
   Any person operating a snowmobile and all- terrain vehicles in the city,
unless provided otherwise herein, shall be subject to the provisions of M.S. §§
84.81 to 84.929, as it may be amended from time to time, inclusive and to the
regulations of the Commissioner of Natural Resources, all of which incorporated
herein by reference.
(`89 Code, § 124.010)
§ 73.02 UNLAWFUL CIRCUMSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate, control or direct the
course of travel of any snowmobile or all-terrain vehicles in the corporate
limits of the city without first obtaining permission from the City Manager.
(`89 Code, § 124.020) (Am. Ord. 652, passed 2-1-2005)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   All terrain vehicles, when used for husbandry or for snow removal on private
property are exempt from this chapter.
(Ord. 652, passed 2-1-2005)
§ 73.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   Operation of a snowmobile or all terrain vehicle in the corporate limits of
the City of North St. Paul constitutes a public nuisance and is punishable
under §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 652, passed 2-1-2005)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking on Seventh Avenue
SCHEDULE I. PARKING ON SEVENTH AVENUE.
   Upon Seventh Avenue, between Charles and First Street, which has been marked
for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated
by such marks. All parked vehicles must be parked with the front end of the
vehicle next to the curb. No vehicle shall make a left turn across the center
line to enter any parking stall. Vehicles when leaving any parking stall shall
only back into the first lane of traffic and shall then only proceed forward in
said lane of traffic.
(`89 Code, § 121.080)
Penalty, see § 10.99
 TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   AIR POLLUTION CONTROL
   
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   
92.   PARKS AND LAKES
   
93.   TREES
   
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
95.   ANIMALS
   
96.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND LIQUIDS
   
97.   DRUGS, NARCOTICS, POISONS AND CHEMICALS
   
98.   NUISANCES
   
99.   ALARM SYSTEMS
   
100.   USER CHARGE FOR EXCESSIVE SERVICES
CHAPTER 90: AIR POLLUTION CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Adoption of regulations of Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
§ 90.01 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS OF MINNESOTA POLLUTION CONTROL AGENCY.
   There is adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions hazardous to life and property the Ambient Air Quality
Standards and Air Pollution Control Regulations as published by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency and in effect as of the date hereof, and the same is
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the
date on which this section takes effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the city.
(`89 Code, § 137.010)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Minnesota State Fire Code
   
91.01   Adoption of Minnesota State Fire Code
   
91.02   Enforcement
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Penalties
   
91.05   Establishment of limits of districts in which storage of flammable or
combustible liquids in outside aboveground tanks is to be prohibited
   
91.06   Establishment of limits in which bulk storage of liquified petroleum
gases is to be restricted
   
91.07   Establishment of limits of districts in which storage of explosives and
blasting agents is to be prohibited
   
91.08   Appeals
   
91.09   Repeal of conflicting ordinances
   
91.10   Fire lanes
   
91.11   Life Safety Code
   
91.12   Violations
   
91.13   Fires or barbeques on balconies or patios
Fire Regulations
   
91.25   Fire certificate of compliance
   
91.26   Access to premises granted
   
91.27   Prohibited conditions
   
91.28   Notification of fire hazard
   
91.29   Recreational fires; regulations
   
91.30   Destruction of condemned structures
Nonresident Emergency Fire Services Involving Motor Vehicles
   
91.40   Purpose and intent
   
91.41   Definitions
   
91.42   Parties affected
   
91.43   Billing and collection
   
91.44   Hardship waiver of fees
MINNESOTA STATE FIRE CODE
§ 91.01 ADOPTION OF MINNESOTA STATE FIRE CODE.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 299F.011, as it may be amended from time to time, the
Minnesota State Fire Code, one copy of which has been marked as the official
copy and which is on file in the office of the City Manager, is hereby adopted
as the Fire Code for the city for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion.
Every provision contained in the Minnesota State Fire Code, except as
hereinafter amended, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as if
fully set forth herein. The scope of these regulations is intended to be
consistent with M.S. § 299F.011, as it may be amended from time to time.
(`89 Code, § 26.010) (Ord. 644, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department (hereinafter for convenience of reference
“Chief” or “Fire Chief”) or his or her authorized representatives shall enforce
the provisions of this chapter. The Fire Chief may detail such members of the
Fire Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary.
(`89 Code, § 26.020) (Ord. 644, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the word “jurisdiction” is used in the Minnesota State Fire
Code, it shall be held to mean the city.
   (B)   Whenever the term “Corporation Counsel” is used in the Minnesota State
Fire Code, it shall be held to mean the Attorney.
(`89 Code, § 26.030)
   (C)   Whenever the term “Chief of any jurisdiction adopting this code” is
used in the Minnesota State Fire Code, it shall mean the Chief of the Fire
Department.
   (D)   “Code” of “Fire Code” where not more specifically enumerated, shall be
construed to include the Minnesota State Fire Code, as adopted by the State of
Minnesota pursuant to M.S. § 299F.011, as it may be amended from time to time,
and any amendments thereto adopted by the city, as well as other provisions of
this City Code having reference to the duties of the Fire Department and the
division of fire prevention and prescribing regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion.
   (E)   Wherever the term “Fire Prevention Bureau” is used in the Minnesota
State Fire Code, it shall mean the Division of Fire Prevention of the
Department of Fire and Safety Services of the city.
(Ord. 644, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 91.04 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise stated herein, any person who shall violate any of
the provisions of this code hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who
shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall
build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans
submitted thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from
which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order
as affirmed or modified by the Fire Chief or his or her authorized
representative or by a court of competent jurisdiction within the time fixed
herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance,
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor violation. The imposition of one
penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy the
violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise
specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (B)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 644, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 91.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS OF DISTRICTS IN WHICH STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR
COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVEGROUND TANKS IS TO BE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The limits referred to in § 15.201 of the Minnesota State Fire Code in
which storage of flammable or combustible liquids in outside aboveground tanks
is prohibited are established as the entire city.
   (B)   The limits referred to in § 15.601 of the Minnesota State Fire Code in
which new bulk plants for flammable or combustible liquids are prohibited are
established as the entire city.
(`89 Code, § 26.040)
§ 91.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS IN WHICH BULK STORAGE OF LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM
GASES IS TO BE RESTRICTED.
   The limits referred to in § 20.105(a) of the Minnesota State Fire Code in
which bulk storage of liquified petroleum gas is prohibited are established as
the entire city.
(`89 Code, § 26.050)
§ 91.07 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS OF DISTRICTS IN WHICH STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES AND
BLASTING AGENTS IS TO BE PROHIBITED.
   The limits referred to in § 11.106(b) of the Minnesota State Fire Code in
which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited are established
as the entire city.
(`89 Code, § 26.060)
§ 91.08 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a
permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the Code do
not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the Code have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the Chief to the City Council within 30 days from the date of the decision
appealed.
(`89 Code, § 26.070)
§ 91.09 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All former ordinances or parts thereof conflicting or inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter or of the Code adopted are repealed. However, those
provisions of the National Fire Code not in conflict with this chapter shall
remain in full force and effect.
(`89 Code, § 26.090)
§ 91.10 FIRE LANES.
   The Council is authorized to order the establishment of fire lanes on public
or private property as may be necessary in order that the travel of fire
equipment may not be interfered with and that access to fire hydrants or
buildings may not be blocked off. When a fire lane has been ordered to be
established, it shall be marked by a sign bearing the words “No Parking - Fire
Lane” or a similar message. When the fire lane is on public property or a
public right-of-way, the sign or signs shall be erected by the city, and when
on private property, they shall be erected by the owner at their own expense
within 30 days after notification of the order. Thereafter, no person shall
park a vehicle or otherwise occupy or obstruct the fire lane.
(`89 Code, § 26.100)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.11 LIFE SAFETY CODE.
   Chapter 101 of the National Fire Protective Association Code, published by
the National Fire Protection Association, latest edition, entitled the Life
Safety Code, is adopted and incorporated herein as if fully set out hereafter;
one copy of which is on file with the City Manager as required by law.
(`89 Code, § 26.110)
§ 91.12 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Code
adopted or fail to comply therewith, who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order made thereunder or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, and
from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an
order as affirmed or modified by the City Council or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every
such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The
imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or
permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or
remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not
otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(`89 Code, § 26.080)
§ 91.13 FIRES OR BARBECUES ON BALCONIES OR PATIOS.
   (A)   Open flame prohibited. In any structure containing three or more
dwelling units, no person shall kindle, maintain, or cause any fire or open
flame on any balcony above ground level, or on any ground floor patio within 15
feet (4,572 mm) of the structure.
   (B)   Fuel storage prohibited. No person shall store or use any fuel,
barbecue, torch, or other similar heating or lighting chemical or device in the
locations designated in division (A).
   (C)   Exception. Listed electric or gas-fired barbecue grills that are
permanently mounted and wired or plumbed to the building’s gas supply or
electrical system and that maintain a minimum clearance of 18 inches (457 mm)
on all sides, unless listed for lesser clearances, may be installed on
balconies and patios when approved by the Fire Chief.
FIRE REGULATIONS
§ 91.25 FIRE CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Use and occupancy. No building in Group A (Assembly), B (Business), E
(Education), F (Factory), I (Institutional), H (Hazardous), M (Mercantile), or
S (Storage) as classified in the Minnesota State Building Code, shall be used
or occupied without a fire certificate of compliance.
   (B)   Fee. The property owner must pay the fire certificate of compliance
application fee in the amount set by ordinance by the City Council.
   (C)   Certificate. A fire certificate of compliance shall be issued each
year after submission of a fee and completed application that has been reviewed
and approved by the city. The certificate shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The building certificate number.
      (2)   The address of the building.
      (3)   The name and address of the owner.
      (4)   A description of the portion of the building for which the
certificate is issued.
      (5)   The name of the building contact or agent.
      (6)   The business name of all tenants.
   (D)   Agent. No certificate shall be issued or renewed unless the applicant
designates in writing to the Fire Chief an agent who resides in any of the
following Minnesota counties: Hennepin, Ramsey, Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Scott or
Washington; or Wisconsin counties: Polk, St. Croix and Pierce. Said agent shall
be held responsible for maintenance and upkeep of the property and must be
empowered to receive service of notice of violations of the provisions of the
Minnesota State Fire Code, to receive orders and institute remedial action to
effect such orders, and to accept all service of process pursuant to law. An
applicant must immediately notify the Fire Chief in writing of any change of
agent.
   (E)   Inspection. The Fire Chief or designee shall inspect each building
once every two years, if the city has obtained consent of the building owner or
an administrative search warrant. Inspections shall consist of a compliance
check with the applicable Minnesota State Fire Code provisions. If the owner of
the building does not cooperate in facilitating an inspection pursuant to an
administrative search warrant, the Fire Chief may deny the fire certificate of
compliance application.
   (F)   Posting. The fire certificate of compliance shall be posted in a
conspicuous place.
   (G)   Revocation. The Fire Chief may, in writing, suspend, revoke, or deny a
fire certificate of compliance issued under the provisions of this code
whenever the certificate was issued in error or on the basis of incorrect
information supplied, or when the Fire Chief determines that a violation of the
Minnesota State Fire Code exists in the building.
   (H)   Appeal. Any applicant who is denied a certificate and any person whose
certificate is suspended or revoked may appeal such action to the Council. The
Council will hold a hearing on any such appeal within 30 days after the appeal
is filed with the City Manager.
(Ord. 752, passed 6-7-2016)
Cross reference:
   Fire Department, see
Chapter 53
§ 91.26 ACCESS TO PREMISES GRANTED.
   For the purpose of making inspections, the Fire Chief or other properly
designated persons shall have authority to enter any commercial or industrial
building and upon any premises in the city between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
6:00 p.m. No person shall deny an inspector access as is herein provided. In
case of refusal, the Chief shall have the right to request a search warrant
from the District Court to complete the inspection.
(`89 Code, § 131.020)
§ 91.27 PROHIBITED CONDITIONS.
   No owner, occupant or agent of any building in the city shall:
   (A)   Permit any ashes, waste, paper, hay, straw, rags or other waste
material of a combustible nature to accumulate in the basement or on any floor
of a building or in any hallway, court, yard or alley adjoining a building;
   (B)   Permit any defective electrical wiring or defective heating device or
part thereof, including flues and chimneys, to exist on the property;
   (C)   Permit any premises, building or structure, or any portion thereof,
which by reason of want of repairs, age, dilapidated condition or damage by
fire or other cause, is especially liable to fire or which is so situated or in
such condition as to endanger its occupants or the general public to exist on
the property.
(`89 Code, § 131.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.28 NOTIFICATION OF FIRE HAZARD.
   The investigating officer is authorized to notify in writing the owner,
occupant or agent of any premises containing a fire hazard. Service of the
notice shall be in person or by mail. The notice shall order any accumulation
of combustible material to be removed within 48 hours after service thereof and
shall specify a reasonable time within which any other fire hazard is to be
corrected or removed. No person shall fail to comply with such an order. Any
failure to comply shall be reported to the Council.
(`89 Code, § 131.040)
§ 91.29 RECREATIONAL FIRES; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A property owner or lessee of the property may have a recreational
fire/camp fire without obtaining a permit from the city provided that the
following regulations be complied with.
      (1)   Hours of burning are 4:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
      (2)   Clean dry wood only (no refuse, grass, leaves, branches, paper,
garbage or other combustibles).
      (3)   Size shall not be more than three feet in diameter, nor shall the
flames reach a height in excess of three feet and there is no combustible
material within five feet of the base of the fire.
      (4)   No fire shall be within 20 feet of any building or structure.
      (5)   A means of extinguishment must be in the immediate are of the fire.
      (6)   Fire shall be constantly attended until completely extinguished.
      (7)   No fire shall be started or maintained in dry conditions or winds
over 15 mph.
   (B)   RECREATIONAL/CAMPFIRE means a fire set for cooking, warming, or
ceremonial purposes.
(`89 Code, § 137.050) (Ord. 607, passed 2-6-1995)
§ 91.30 DESTRUCTION OF CONDEMNED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Whenever the owner of any obsolete of condemned house, building or
other structure in the city undertakes to demolish or destroy same by burning,
such owner shall contact the Chief of the Fire Department or designee and make
arrangements for the burning. Destruction of any structure in this manner shall
be done only under supervision and control of the Fire Department and pursuant
to a permit issued by the Fire Chief. A charge may be made for this service,
and the money so received by the Fire Department shall be used to defray
expenses of the Department.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued to burn any structure in the city until such
time as approval or permit has been issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency.
(`89 Code, § 137.060)
NONRESIDENT EMERGENCY FIRE SERVICES INVOLVING MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 91.40 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Sections
91.40 through
91.44 are adopted for the purpose of allowing the city to charge any
nonresident of the city for certain fire services as authorized by M.S. §
415.01, Subd. 2.
(Ord. 694, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 91.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of fire fighting personnel and/or equipment to
extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to protect
equipment, life, or property in an area of or threatened by fire. It also
includes the deployment of fire fighting personnel and/or equipment to provide
fire suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire
and rescue as may occur.
   FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and manufactured to
operate primarily upon public roads and highways, including semi-trailers.
(Ord. 694, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 91.42 PARTIES AFFECTED.
   Fees for any nonresident party who receives fire service involving a motor
vehicle accident or motor vehicle fire shall be determined as set forth in the
Municipal Fee Schedule, adopted by ordinance and which may be amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 694, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 91.43 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   A nonresident party receiving fire service will be billed directly by
the City.
   (B)   Additionally, if insurance information is made available, a copy of
the invoice and city ordinance will be sent to the vehicle owner's insurance
company. If insurance information is not available, it is the responsibility of
the owner to submit invoices to their insurance company. In either situation,
it remains the responsibility of the vehicle owner to pay the fee in full.
   (C)   A nonresident party billed for fire service will have 30 days from the
time of notice to pay, and if not paid by that time, it will be considered
delinquent and an additional charge of 10% will be added to the amount due.
Additionally, such party shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by
the city, including reasonable attorney fees and cost.
   (D)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the notice
of delinquency is sent, the City Council may also, on or before October 15 of
each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the County Auditor in
which the recipient of the services owns real property for collection with
property taxes. The County Auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all
charges collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner
notice of its intent to proceed in this manner by September 15 of the year in
which it certifies the unpaid charge to the appropriate County Auditor.
(Ord. 694, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 91.44 HARDSHIP WAIVER OF FEES.
   When the city determines that imposition of a fee would impose an extreme
economic hardship as determined by the city, the city may reduce or waive the
fee as deemed appropriate by the City Manager. Any party may appeal the
determination by the City Manager to the City Council for consideration.
Economic hardship may be established where a party is totally disabled and
receiving social security benefits or railroad similar fixed income, retirement
or disability benefits, and whose total household income is less than the
annual low income level established by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development Low Income Level.
(Ord. 694, passed 7-20-2010)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND LAKES
Section
   
92.01   Destruction, defacement or theft of park property
   
92.02   Littering
   
92.03   Fires
   
92.04   Prohibited activities
   
92.05   Parking and driving vehicles
   
92.06   Animals in parks
   
92.07   Hunting or interfering with animals
   
92.08   Skating regulations
   
92.09   Bathing regulations
   
92.10   Aircraft regulations
   
92.11   General restriction on athletics
   
92.12   Additional rules and regulations
§ 92.01 DESTRUCTION, DEFACEMENT OR THEFT OF PARK PROPERTY.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Cut, break, scratch, mark or in any way injure or deface or remove a
building, fence, post, pumps, lamp, flagpole, construction work, improvement
facility or any other feature or property in any public park;
   (B)   Post, paste, fasten, paint or affix any placard, bill, notice or sign
upon any structure, post, pole, stone, fence, thing or enclosure in any public
park, unless by authorization in writing by the Manager;
   (C)   Pick or cut any wild or cultivated flowers or cut, break or in any way
injure or deface any tree, shrub or plant in any public park;
   (D)   Carry within or out of any public park any wild flower, tree, shrub,
plant or any newly plucked branch or portion thereof or any soil or other
material belonging in or pertaining to such park; or
   (E)   Go on foot upon the grass or turf of any public park where a
prohibitory sign is posted.
(`89 Code, § 153.010)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.02 LITTERING.
   No person shall throw or cast any stone or other object or aim or discharge
any air gun, sling shot or other weapon in a public park except pursuant to the
rules of a permitted game or recreation. No person shall throw, deposit, place
or leave in any public park or water therein any paper, rubbish, waste, cans,
bottles, grass blades or refuse of any kind, whether or not the same is
offensive to the senses or injurious to health, except in receptacles provided
for the collection of waste.
(`89 Code, § 153.020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.03 FIRES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Start or maintain any fire in any public park except small fires made
by picnic parties in locations designated for that purpose by the city;
   (B)   Leave any fire made or used unextinguished when they leave the public
park; or
   (C)   Start or maintain any fire on the ice on any lake within the city,
except that a manufactured heater burning liquid fuel may be used.
(`89 Code, § 153.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.04 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Refuse to comply with the reasonable order of any city lifeguard when
such order is made in order to maintain order and safety;
   (B)   Drink or consume any beverage having an alcoholic content or cook in
any area designated and marked specifically as a bathing beach or adjacent
parking area;
   (C)   Use any threatening, profane, abusive, disorderly, insulting or
indecent language or perform any act tending to be a breach of the peace or
gamble or do any indecent, lascivious, lewd or improper conduct in any public
park;
   (D)   Sell or offer for sale any articles in any public park, provided that
refreshments or other articles may be sold by the city or by persons authorized
to do so by the Manager;
   (E)   Give any public speech or hold or participate in any rally,
convention, assembly or meeting in any public park without the written
permission of the Manager which shall be withheld only when necessary to
prevent conflict with regular park activities and insure that adequate health
and safety measures may be implemented;
   (F)   Promote or participate in an entertainment or exhibition in any park
without permission of the Manager;
   (G)   Participate in or conduct any band procession, parade or formation in
any public park without the written permission of the Manager;
   (H)   Place or keep in any public park any goods, wares, merchandise or
other articles which interfere with the free use and enjoyment of the park by
the public;
   (I)   Distribute or display within any public park any circulars, cards or
announcements, printed or not, for events other than those sponsored by or with
the participation or endorsement of the city;
   (J)   Be in or remain in any public park between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m., except by special permit issued by the City Manager;
   (K)   Any person of lawful age may possess and consume an intoxicating
liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in any park, except the McKnight Field Sports
Complex with the following regulations:
      (1)   Hours. Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m:
         (a)   In areas so designated and marked; and
         (b)   The City Manager may issue a special permit for hours other than
listed above.
   (2)   McKnight Field Sports Complex. Any person of lawful age may possess
and consume an intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor between 9:00 a.m. and
11:00 p.m. when said beverage has been sold at this park under a permit or
license issued by the City of North St. Paul:
         (a)   In areas so designated and marked;
         (b)   Glass containers will not be allowed or sold in park; and
         (c)   The City Manager may issue a special permit for hours other than
listed above.
(`89 Code, § 153.040) (Ord. 749, passed 1-19- 2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 PARKING AND DRIVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Recreational vehicle means any self- propelled motorized vehicle
designed for travel on natural terrain on snow or ice and steered by wheels,
skis or runners. This shall include motorcycles, mini-bikes, motorized chugs,
snowmobiles and all terrain vehicles.
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Be or remain in any motor vehicle or leave or park any motor
vehicle in any public park or adjacent parking area between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
      (2)   Drive or park any motor vehicle on any turf area of any public park
not designated for parking or travel;
      (3)   All recreational vehicles shall be driven in a reasonable manner as
not to endanger the safety of others in all authorized parks and lakes. Racing
is prohibited. Recreational vehicles shall not be driven at a speed in excess
of 30 mph on any authorized lake or park. Recreational vehicles shall reduce
their speed to not greater than 15 mph when within 150 feet of any lake or
waterway shore, fisherman, pedestrian, fishhouse, skating rink, sliding area or
any other area where the use of the vehicle may be considered hazardous to park
or water users;
      (4)   Drive any recreational vehicle in any park area except as and at
such times as the Council may by resolution authorize or designate and only
then when there is adequate snow cover or ice thickness present to prevent
damage to public property or injury to life;
      (5)   No persons shall operate a recreational vehicle in any park or lake
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and 12:00
a.m. to 7:00 a.m. on other days and all holidays except Christmas; or
      (6)   No person under the age of 14 years shall operate a recreational
vehicle in any park or lake unless in compliance with state law.
(`89 Code, § 153.050)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.06 ANIMALS IN PARKS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Allow any domestic animal to run at large in a park;
   (B)   Take or allow any horse, cattle, mule, swine, sheep, goats or fowl in
or upon any public park or public waters.
(`89 Code, § 153.060)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 95
§ 92.07 HUNTING OR INTERFERING WITH ANIMALS.
    No person shall:
   (A)   Rob, injure or destroy any bird nest, aim or discharge any air gun,
slingshot or other weapon or throw any stone or other missile at any bird or
creature in any park;
   (B)   Set, lay, prepare or have in possession any trap, snare, artificial
light, net, bird line, ferret, hawk or any contrivance whatever for the purpose
of catching, taking or killing any bird or wild creature in any public park.
(`89 Code, § 153.070)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.08 SKATING REGULATIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the following acts on public skating rinks,
unless pursuant to a program of organized winter sports conducted by the city:
   (A)   Sledding, tobogganing, snowmobiling or use of all-terrain vehicles on
rinks;
   (B)   Using hockey sticks or pucks in areas not marked for hockey play;
   (C)   No hockey game or pleasure skating shall continue past the park curfew
hours of 11:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.; or
   (D)   Refusal to comply with the reasonable order of any city warming house
attendant when such order is made in order to maintain order and safety.
(`89 Code, § 153.080)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.09 BATHING REGULATIONS
   No person shall:
   (A)   Bathe in or enter the water of or adjoining any public park between
11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.;
   (B)   Enter the water or use any water craft or raft on any pond, ponding
area or other body of water not designated as a lake;
   (C)   All inflated and buoyant devices, floating toys or rafts used by
swimmers or non-swimmers to convey themselves in a floating position are
prohibited at any public beach area.
(`89 Code, § 153.100)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.10 AIRCRAFT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall use any park, lake or any public place for a starting
or landing area for any type of aircraft pursuant to M.S. § 360.038, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (B)   The use of model airplanes and model boats may be restricted by the
Manager in regard to the location and time of day that they are used.
   (C)   The provisions of M.S. § 360.075, as it may be amended from time to
time, are adopted and made part of this chapter as if fully set out herein.
(`89 Code, § 153.110)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.11 GENERAL RESTRICTION ON ATHLETICS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Play or participate in any type of sports or recreational activity in
any public park except in or upon appropriate areas established by the city for
such game or sport; or
   (B)   Play upon, use or enter any recreation or sports area without paying a
registration or admission fee when one is required by the city.
(`89 Code, § 153.120)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.12 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Additional rules and regulations may be made from time to time by the
Council by adoption of ordinances governing the use and enjoyment of public
parks, playgrounds, lakes, ponds, streams and public park and recreational
facilities. Regulatory signs shall then be prominently posted in places where
they are intended to apply. Any person who violates a rule or regulation so
posted may be excluded from the use of the park playground, lake, pond, stream
or park or recreation facility and may in addition be prosecuted for a
misdemeanor.
(`89 Code, § 153.130)
CHAPTER 93: TREES
Section
Boulevard Trees
   
93.01   Compliance
   
93.02   Planting of boulevard trees
   
93.03   Type of tree
   
93.04   Size and location
   
93.05   Ownership
   
93.06   Removal or destruction prohibited
BOULEVARD TREES
§ 93.01 COMPLIANCE.
   Any person who desires to plant trees on any boulevard which is part of the
public street right-of- way shall comply with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(`89 Code, § 152.010)
§ 93.02 PLANTING OF BOULEVARD TREES.
   No trees shall be planted in any boulevard without a permit from the
Department of Community Services.
(`89 Code, § 152.020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.03 TYPE OF TREE.
   The kinds of trees which shall be planted on boulevards are as listed on
file in the Department of Community Services. No other types or kinds of trees
shall be planted on any boulevard in the city except by permission of the
Council.
(`89 Code, § 152.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.04 SIZE AND LOCATION.
   At the time of planting, no tree shall be smaller in size than one and one-
half inches in diameter measured at a point six inches above the ground. Each
tree shall be so located on residential streets as to be seven feet onto the
boulevard when measured at right angles from the property line. All trees shall
be so planted as to be at least 30 feet apart when measured along the street.
(`89 Code, § 152.040)
§ 93.05 OWNERSHIP.
   All trees planted on street boulevards become the property of the city.
(`89 Code, § 152.050)
§ 93.06 REMOVAL OR DESTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall willfully or wrongfully cut, break, injure, remove or
destroy any tree located on any public property in the city without a permit
from the Department of Community Services.
(`89 Code, § 152.060)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Streets
   
94.01   Borderline streets
   
94.02   Depositing of snow, ice, leaves, grass, litter, and other materials on
public ground or right-of-way
   
94.03   Notice required in street or alley vacations
   
94.04   Snow and ice removal from streets
Sidewalks
   
94.20   Establishment of sidewalk grade
   
94.21   Snow and ice removal
   
94.22   Sidewalk encroachments
Right-of-Way Management
   
94.30   Purpose and intent
   
94.31   Election to manage the public rights- of-way
   
94.32   Definitions
   
94.33   Administration
   
94.34   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
94.35   Registration information
   
94.36   Reporting obligations
   
94.37   Permit requirement
   
94.38   Permit applications
   
94.39   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
94.40   Permit fees
   
94.41   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
94.42   Joint applications
   
94.43   Supplementary applications
   
94.44   Other obligations
   
94.45   Denial of permit
   
94.46   Installation requirements
   
94.47   Inspection
   
94.48   Work done without a permit
   
94.49   Supplementary notification
   
94.50   Revocation of permits
   
94.51   Mapping data
   
94.52   Location and relocation of facilities
   
94.53   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
94.54   Damage to other facilities
   
94.55   Right-of-way vacation
   
94.56   Indemnification and liability
   
94.57   Abandoned and unusable facilities
   
94.58   Appeal
   
94.59   Franchise holders
   
94.60   Miscellaneous items in the right-of- way
STREETS
§ 94.01 BORDERLINE STREETS.
   (A)   This section shall provide standards, establish uniform practices and
implement cooperative administration between the Cities of Maplewood and North
St. Paul in all matters pertaining to streets located along their contiguous
common borderlines.
   (B)   Borderline streets shall be maintained and replaced according to an
agreement entered into between each municipality.
   (C)   Any borderline streets or portions thereof which are hereafter
constructed shall be constructed by the city from which the request for
construction emanates. This provision is intended to mean that if, because of a
development in one of the municipalities to which this section pertains, it
becomes necessary to construct a portion of a borderline street, that portion
of the borderline street shall be constructed and maintained by the
municipality in which the development requesting the said construction is
taking place; provided, however, that, at the request of either municipality,
this matter shall be subject to review and reconsideration so that the portions
of borderline streets required to be maintained by the respective
municipalities shall be kept fairly equal in number of total lineal feet
maintained by each.
   (D)   All borderline streets shall be constructed so as to conform in design
to the specifications of the municipality requiring the highest quality of
street section or any component part thereof. The grade, the width of driving
surface and the location thereof within the right-of-way shall be subject to
approval of both municipalities.
(`89 Code, § 150.050)
§ 94.02 DEPOSITING OF SNOW, ICE, LEAVES, GRASS, LITTER, AND OTHER MATERIALS ON
PUBLIC GROUND OR RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No person or corporation shall deposit or permit to be deposited onto or
into any public street, sidewalk, boulevard, alley or other public ground of
the city any snow, ice, dirt, paper, litter, grass clippings, leaves,
vegetation or other foreign material, except that sand, salt or ashes may be
used for the sole purpose of preventing slipperiness.
(`89 Code, § 150.060) (Am. Ord. 695, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 94.03 NOTICE REQUIRED IN STREET OR ALLEY VACATIONS.
   In addition to all requirements of the state law, any hearing on a proposed
vacation, in whole or in part, or any street or alley shall be preceded by two
weeks mailed notice to all property owners within 300 feet of said street or
alley. In case of partial vacations, the entire block length shall be the
boundary for determining the 300 foot requirement. Notice shall be complete
upon mailing, but failure to give mailed notice or any defects in the notice
shall not invalidate the proceedings.
(`89 Code, § 150.070)
§ 94.04 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL FROM STREETS.
   (A)   Indoor operations for the storage of deicing materials must be
provided whenever possible in order to prevent such material from being
affected by rain, snow, or melt water.
   (B)   All salt, sand, and other deicing materials stored outdoors must be
covered at all times. When not using a permanent roof, a waterproof
impermeable, flexible cover must be placed over all storage piles. The cover
must prevent runoff and leachate from being generated by the outdoor storage
piles. The cover must be secured to prevent removal by wind or other storm
events. Piles must be formed in a conical shape and covered as necessary to
prevent leaching.
   (C)   Facility siting.
      (1)   The facility must be in close proximity to the area in which the
deicing materials are to be used, if practical.
      (2)   Each facility must be located outside of floodplains and 200 feet
from lakes, rivers, streams, ditches, storm drains, manholes, catch basins,
wetlands, and any other areas likely to absorb runoff. A facility must not be
located in close proximity to surface water features, water supplies, wells or
drywells.
      (3)   A facility must be located on impermeable surfaces.
      (4)   The property’s slope must be away from the facility’s salt, deicer,
and sand storage area.
      (5)   Salt vulnerable natural areas should be avoided as storage
facilities to the extent possible. Where they cannot be avoided, specific
measures should be instituted to protect vulnerable areas. Salt vulnerable
areas include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Areas with salt sensitive vegetation.
         (b)   Areas serving as a source of drinking water (surface water and
groundwater).
         (c)   Areas with bodies of water with low dilution, low volume, or
salt sensitive species.
         (d)   Areas associated with groundwater recharge zones or shallow
water table, with medium to high permeable soils.
   (D)   Snow piles. Snow piles must be located downslope from salt and deicer
storage areas to prevent the snow melt from flowing through storage areas and
carrying material to the nearest drainage system or waterway.
   (E)   Transfer of materials. Practices must be implemented in order to
reduce exposure (e.g., sweeping, diversions, and/or containment) when
transferring salt or other deicing material.
(Ord. 829, passed 7-16-2024)
SIDEWALKS
§ 94.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF SIDEWALK GRADE.
   Whenever the Council shall order a sidewalk to be built upon any street or
portion thereof, the engineer shall first establish the line and grade thereof,
and the sidewalk shall be constructed and thereafter maintained.
(`89 Code, § 151.010)
§ 94.21 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   The following rules and regulations shall apply to snow and ice removal from
all city sidewalks:
   (A)   Except as otherwise established by division (B) of this section, each
owner and occupant of any building, in front of which or adjacent to which a
sidewalk has been constructed for use by the public, shall clear that sidewalk
of snow or ice within 12 hours after said snow or ice has ceased to be
deposited thereon. If the snow or ice shall not be removed within 12 hours, the
owner or occupant can either be prosecuted for a misdemeanor or the city can
give written notice to the owner or occupant demandingremoval of the snow or
ice within 24 hours from the date set forth in the notice, and upon failure of
the owner or occupant to remove the snow or ice within said period, the city
may have the work done either by its employees or by contract, and the cost of
said work shall then be billed against the owner or occupant. If the owner or
occupant shall fail to pay the bill within 30 days, the Council may then assess
the amount due, plus interest, against the property. Once written notice has
been given to the owner or occupant, no subsequent storm or condition can
effect that notice except that the time for compliance shall be continued until
12 hours after said new snow or ice have ceased to be deposited thereon. Once
written notice has been given, and before compliance, any subsequent snow or
ice shall be deemed to be included in said notice;
   (B)   The Council may by resolution, and after a hearing, designate that
certain sidewalks within the city shall be kept clean of snow and ice by the
city, thereby relieving the owner or occupant of that duty, and the city shall
keep records of all expenses, including legal, and in August of each year shall
bill each owner or occupant for their share or any part thereof of all expenses
incurred by the city. If the owner or occupant shall fail to pay the bill as
submitted by the city within 30 days, the Council may then assess the amount,
plus interest, against the property;
   (C)   Conditions:
      (1)   Winds of less than 15 mph shall not be considered sufficient cause
for not keeping sidewalks clear of snow and ice;
      (2)   Written notice shall be sent to: both owners and occupants where
the property is used for industrial, commercial and residential purposes; to
owners where the property is used for apartments or duplexes or where the
property is vacant;
      (3)   Property ownership for the purposes of this section shall be
determined by the city the same way property ownership is determined for
assessment purposes;
      (4)   For the purposes of this section all sidewalks located on or next
to a public street or alley shall be considered for public use and shall be
controlled by this section;
   (D)   This section shall not be construed to affect the responsibility or
liability of the property owners for damages to persons or property because of
the condition of the sidewalk. The city shall not be held as assuming any such
liability by reason of its removing the snow or ice under this section. If the
city decides to assume the liability when it does the snow or ice removal, the
cost of insurance covering such operations shall be considered as a cost to be
paid by the property owners.
(`89 Code, § 151.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.22 SIDEWALK ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AMENITY ZONE. The area along a sidewalk that is located adjacent to the
curb line. This zone provides space for pedestrians to gather or wait for
transit, trees, landscaping, greening, furnishings, snow storage, signs,
wayfinding, streetlights, street signal and utility infrastructure, bicycle
parking, and the curb.
      PEDESTRIAN ZONE. The area located between the building front and amenity
zones. This zone provides space for pedestrians and must be kept clear of
obstructions.
      SIDEWALK CAFÉ. An outdoor dining or sitting area located in whole or in
part on a sidewalk or public plaza where the service of food or beverages is
offered to persons using said sitting area.
      SIDEWALK SALE. The display and sale of merchandise from a stand on the
city sidewalk fronting a store.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   Applicability. Sidewalk encroachment permits may be granted for the
use of a portion of public right-of-way for the purpose of providing seating,
food and beverages, sidewalk sales, and the like and for a structure or statue
related to a city-coordinated program.
      (2)   Application.
         (a)   Application for a sidewalk encroachment permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the city. An application fee, in accordance with the current
fee schedule, shall be submitted at the time of application.
         (b)   An application for a sidewalk encroachment permit shall be
accompanied by a site plan. The site plan shall be drawn to scale and clearly
delineate property lines, curbs, existing facilities, existing obstructions
within the public right of way, and the proposed location of privately-owned
furnishings (tables, chairs, plant tubs, planters, structures, statues, tables,
clothing racks, shelving, carts, fencing or barricades, and the like). The site
plan shall also identify the location of any heating devices that may be used.
         (c)   The City Manager, or designee, shall either grant or deny the
application within 30 days of the application being filed. If the application
is denied, the applicant may appeal to the City Council by filing a written
appeal as described herein.
      (3)   The City Manager retains the right to limit the total number of
sidewalk encroachment permits.
      (4)   Issuance of a permit shall not be construed as authorizing any
permanent installation to be placed in the public right-of-way.
   (C)   General encroachment requirements.
      (1)   A minimum of six feet unobstructed pedestrian zone shall be
maintained on the public sidewalk at all times for compliance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act.
      (2)   No fire exits or lanes may be blocked and must remain clear at all
times. Emergency entries and exits shall be maintained according to the
approved site plan and in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
      (3)   The use of the public sidewalk under an encroachment permit shall
not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including, but not limited
to, trees, light poles, traffic signals, pull boxes or manholes, or any public-
initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence over said use of the
public sidewalk at all times.
      (4)   Statues and structures related to a city-coordinated program may be
fixed to the sidewalk.
   (D)   Sidewalk sale requirements.
      (1)   Merchandise must be located in front of permit holder’s business.
      (2)   Merchandise cannot block building entrance or exits.
   (E)   Sidewalk café requirements.
      (1)   The general layout of the sidewalk cafés shall comply with the
following considerations:
         (a)   Where possible, sidewalk cafés shall be located in the amenity
zone.
         (b)   The location shall consider the placement of existing public
infrastructure.
         (c)   If a sidewalk cafe is adjacent to a parking area or a traffic
lane, a barrier such as a planter, decorative fencing, or the like shall be
installed to separate the sidewalk cafe from the curb and street. Ropes or
chains are not adequate barriers.
         (d)   The arrangement and number of tables and chairs within the
authorized boundaries of the sidewalk café shall reflect the approved plan and
shall not be substantially changed, altered, or added to without the approval
by the city manager.
      (2)   Alcohol service.
         (a)   No alcoholic beverages shall be allowed in a sidewalk café
except with the appropriate license issued by the city under
Chapter 117.
         (b)   All sidewalk cafés serving alcohol shall include demarcation of
the outdoor serving area. Methods of demarcation may be a fence, wall,
landscaping or other means if deeded acceptable by City Council at the time of
liquor licensure.
      (3)   Smoking. Smoking is prohibited in sidewalk café areas.
      (4)   Operation and equipment standards.
         (a)   The tables, chairs and other furnishings shall not be fixed to
the sidewalk and shall be easily movable, but heavy enough to sustain strong
winds. Acceptable weather-resistant materials include wrought iron, cast iron,
aluminum, and lumber-grade HDPE plastic. Evidence of durability shall be
provided in the permit application. Compliance with the City Council approved
guidelines for outdoor furnishings is required.
         (b)   Tables, chairs and other furnishings shall be locked by the
permit holder at the end of each business day.
         (c)   Tables, chairs, and any other components of the approved permit
use shall be neatly stacked and organized at the end of each business day in a
manner which will result in minimal intrusion into the public right-of-way.
         (d)   While such café is in operation, all tables and chairs shall be
kept in a clean, sanitary condition.
         (e)   Permit holders are responsible for the off-season storage of
tables, chairs, and other furnishings at the termination of the permit.
         (f)   Receptacles for waste or dirty dishes, and cooking appliances
shall not be placed or stored on any portion of the sidewalk. The business
owner shall ensure that the area is properly maintained and litter free.
   (F)   Expiration and renewal. A sidewalk café permit is valid from May 1 to
November 15, or the first significant snowfall, whichever comes first.
   (G)   Insurance required. No sidewalk encroachment permit shall be effective
until evidence of insurance has been filed with the city insuring against
liability imposed by law arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or
operation under such permit in an amount of $500,000. The city shall be named
as an additional insured in the policy, providing such insurance and such
policy shall further provide that it may not be canceled except upon 10 days’
written.
   (H)   Permit suspension or revocation.
      (1)   Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit and
all requirements of this chapter may result in the termination of the sidewalk
encroachment permit.
      (2)   Written notice of suspension or revocation, stating the causes
therefor, shall be mailed to the permittee to the address as shown in the
permit application.
      (3)   After revocation, such use of the public sidewalk shall cease and
no tables or chairs or other encumbrances of the sidewalk may remain.
   (I)   Appeal.
      (1)   A sidewalk encroachment applicant or permit holder that has been
denied a permit, or has had a permit revoked may have the denial or revocation
reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council.
      (2)   The City Council shall act on a timely written request within 45
days of receipt, provided the applicant or permit holder has submitted its
appeal with sufficient time to include the appeal as a regular agenda item. A
decision by the City Council affirming the denial or revocation will be in
writing and supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of
the decision.
(Ord. 814, passed 2-7-2023)
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
§ 94.30 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances. Accordingly, the city hereby enacts this
chapter of the code relating to right-of-way permits and administration. This
chapter imposes reasonable regulation on the placement and maintenance of
facilities and equipment currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed
therein at some future time. It is intended to complement the regulatory roles
of state and federal agencies. Under this chapter, persons excavating and
obstructing the rights-of-way will bear financial responsibility for their
work. Finally, this chapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and
projected costs from persons using the public rights-of-way.
   (B)    This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session
Laws, Chapter 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the "Act") and 2017 Session Laws, Chapter 94,
amending the Act, and the other laws governing applicable rights of the city
and users of the right-of-way. This chapter shall also be interpreted
consistent with Minn. Rules 7819.0050 - 7819.9950 where possible. To the extent
any provision of this chapter cannot be interpreted consistently with the
Minnesota Rules, that interpretation most consistent with the Act and other
applicable statutory and case law is intended. This chapter shall not be
interpreted to limit the regulatory and police powers of the city to adopt and
enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.31 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects, pursuant M.S.
237.163 Subd. 2(b), to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.32 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
References hereafter to "sections" are, unless otherwise specified, references
to sections in this chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms, whether or not
capitalized.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way.
   CITY. The city of North St. Paul Minnesota. For purposes of § 94.56, CITY
means its elected officials, officers, employees and agents.
   COLLOCATE. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace a small
wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing wireless
support structure or utility pole that is owned privately, or by the city or
other government unit.
   COMMISSION. The State Public Utilities Commission.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04. Subd. 3, over a continuous length in excess
of 500 feet.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at permittee's option:
      (1)   Individual project bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, Subd. 3;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (5)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (6)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules 7819.1100, the cost to achieve a
level of restoration, as determined by the city at the time the permit is
issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to 13, set
forth in Minn. Rules 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public works of the city.
   DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR. Any person authorized by the city to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this chapter.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established
by permit.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that (1) poses a danger to life or health, or of a
significant loss of property; or (2) requires immediate repair or replacement
of facilities in order to restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
facilities in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
94.40.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service.
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next five years.
   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR. A designated portion of the public right-of-way
within which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and
competing facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   HOLE. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
less than the width of the pavement.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of such person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way or small wireless
facility permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
maintaining, supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-
way work; determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way or small wireless facility permits.
Management costs do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
user for the use of the right-of-way, unreasonable fees of a third-party
contractor used by the city including fees tied to or based on customer counts,
access lines or revenues generated by the right-of-way for the city, the fees
and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of Minnesota Session Laws
1997, Chapter 123; M.S. §§237.162 or 237.163; or any ordinance enacted under
those sections, or the city fees and costs related to appeals taken pursuant to
§
94.58.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
94.40.
   PATCH or PATCHING. A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A patch consists of (1) the compaction of the subbase and aggregate
base, and (2) the replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum
of two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions. A patch is
considered full restoration only when the pavement is included in the city's
five-year project plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
   PERMIT. The meaning given "right-of-way permit" in M.S. § 237.162.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who (1) has or seeks to have its equipment or
facilities located in any right-of-way, or (2) in any way occupies or uses, or
seeks to occupy or use, the right-of-way or place its facilities or equipment
in the right-of-way.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates 1 to 13 of Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission rules.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY or ROW. The area on, below, or above a
public roadway, highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane or public sidewalk in
which the city has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for
travel purposes and utility easements of the city. A right-of-way does not
include the airwaves above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other
nonwire telecommunications or broadcast service.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit or the obstruction permit,
or both, depending on the context, required by this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. Either: (1) a telecommunications right-of-way user as
defined by M.S. § 237.162, Subd. 4; or (2) a person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way that is used or intended to be used for providing
utility service, and who has a right under law, franchise, or ordinance to use
the public right-of-way.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Any of the following: (1) those services
provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. 216B.02, Subds. 4 and 6; (2)
services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including transporting of
voice or data information; (3) services of a cable communications systems as
defined in M.S. Chapter. 238; (4) natural gas or electric energy or
telecommunications services provided by the city; (5) services provided by a
cooperative electric association organized under M.S. Chapter 308A; and (6)
water, and sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling or heating
services.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute, or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A service lateral is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer's premises.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or could fit within such an enclosure; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility provided such equipment is, in aggregate, no more than 28 cubic feet
in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services, and any equipment
concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the city's two-year plan, in which case it is considered
full restoration.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
   TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a  facility in the
right-of-way, that is used or is intended to be used for providing wireless
service, or transporting telecommunication or other voice or data information.
For purposes of this chapter, a cable communication system defined and
regulated under M.S. Chapter 238, and telecommunication activities related to
providing natural gas or electric energy services a public utility as defined
in M.S. §216B.02, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency organized
under M.S. Chapter 453 and 453A, or a cooperative electric association
organized under M.S. Chapter 308A, are not telecommunications right-of-way
users for purposes of this chapter except to the extent such entity is offering
wireless service.
   TWO YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Projects adopted by the city for construction within
the next two years.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision
of wireless services between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including equipment associated with wireless service, a radio transceiver,
antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies and a
small wireless facility, but not including wireless support structures,
wireline backhaul facilities, or cables between utility poles or wireless
support structures, or not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly
associated with a specific antenna.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a mobile device, that is provided using wireless facilities. WIRELESS
SERVICE does not include services regulated under Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, including cable service.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure in a right-of-way
designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities, as
reasonably determined by the city.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. A facility used to transport communications data
by wire from a wireless facility to a communications network.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.33 ADMINISTRATION.
   The city engineer (or Director of Public Works) is the principal city
official responsible for the administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way
permits, and the ordinances related thereto. The city engineer (or Director of
Public Works) may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.34 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person who occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease or assignment, must register with the city. Registration will
consist of providing application information and paying a registration fee.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a city ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and
shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this
chapter. However, nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the
provisions of the M.S. Chapter 216D, Gopher One Call Law.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.35 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the city at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant's name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the city;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the (i) use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees, and (ii) placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under M.S. 300.06 as recorded and certified to by the
Secretary of State.
      (6)    A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other authorization or
approval from the applicable state or federal agency to lawfully operate, where
the person is lawfully required to have such authorization or approval from
said commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times
by providing to the city information as to changes within 15 days following the
date on which the registrant has knowledge of any change.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.36 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations. Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by
December 1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for
underground facilities with the city. Such plan shall be submitted using a
format designated by the city and shall contain the information determined by
the city to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way.
   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of all
projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
"next-year project"); and
      (2)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this section, a "five-year project").
      (3)   The term "project" in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
      (4)   By January 1 of each year, the city will have available for
inspection in the city's office a composite list of all projects of which the
city has been informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for
keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
      (5)   Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project
in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the city and all other
registrants of all such changes in said list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another registrant
listed by the other registrant.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.37 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required.  Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way or install or place facilities in the
right-of-way without first having obtained the appropriate right-of-way permit
from the city to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by
placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
      (3)   Small wireless facilities permit. A small wireless facility permit
is required by a registrant to erect or install a wireless support structure,
to collocate a small wireless facility or to otherwise install a small wireless
facility in the specified portion of the right-of-way, to the extent specified
therein,provided that such permit shall remain in effect for the length of time
the facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless (i) such person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, and (ii) a new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rule 7819.1000, Subp. 3 and
notwithstanding division (B) of this section, the city shall establish and
impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.38 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the city. Right-of-way permit
applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with, the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Registration with the city pursuant to this chapter;
   (B)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities.
   (C)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city;
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
   (D)   Payment of disputed amounts due the city by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing.
   (E)    Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the city deems the existing construction performance
bond inadequate under applicable standards.
   (F)   For small wireless facilities and wireless support structures,
documentation signed by a registered professional structural engineer
certifying that the existing pole or proposed wireless support structure is or
will be made structurally sufficient to support the proposed small wireless
facility.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.39 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions.  The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to
M.S. §§ 216D.01-.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn. Rules
Chapter 7560.
   (C)   Small wireless facility conditions. In addition to division (B) above,
the erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the collocation
of a small wireless facility, or other installation of a small wireless
facility in the right-of-way, shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the
particular wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable permit application.
      (2)   The small wireless facility shall not interfere with public safety
wireless telecommunications.
      (3)   The small wireless facility shall not extend outward from the
wireless support structure by more than two and one-half feet, except that an
antenna one-half inch in diameter or less may extend an additional six inches.
      (4)   Small wireless facilities shall be mounted so there is vertical
clearance of at least eight feet between the facility and any pedestrian
sidewalk.
      (5)   Small wireless facilities shall be located so as not to obstruct
light fixtures. If small wireless facilities are to be located on a light pole,
a lighting plan shall be submitted to demonstrate the facilities will not block
light on the street or sidewalk.
      (6)   No small wireless facility shall be collocated on any city owned
traffic control device.
      (7)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-way
shall exceed 50 feet in height without the city's written authorization,
provided that the city may impose a lower height limit in the applicable permit
to protect the public health, safety and welfare or to protect the right-of-way
and its current use, and further provided that a registrant may replace an
existing wireless support structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a
structure of the same height subject to such conditions or requirements as may
be imposed in the applicable permit.
      (8)   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet above its
wireless support structure.
      (9)   No lights, reflectors, flashers or other illuminating devices shall
be affixed to any small wireless facility or wireless support structure except
as required by the Federal Aviation Administration, Federal Communications
Commission, or the city. Brackets supporting small wireless facilities shall be
designed to minimize the appearance and profile of the facilities. Bracket
colors and materials should match the wireless support structures they are
attached to.
      (10)   No stickers, signs, or decals shall be visible on any small
wireless facility or wireless support structure, except:
         (a)   Safety alerts required by law;
         (b)   One sign not over ten square inches in area may be affixed
indicating the name of the manufacturer or installer;
         (c)   A banner or sign may be attached to a wireless support structure
or small wireless facility at the city's request to conform to other wireless
support structures or small wireless facilities.
      (11)   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the new wireless support structure may not be
located within 300 feet of any existing wireless support structure in and
around the right-of-way.
      (12)   If feasible and desirable, as determined by the City Engineer or
designee, a new or replacement wireless support structure shall match the
original and surrounding poles in structure and material.
      (13)   Wireless support structures shall be of monopole design not
exceeding 18 inches in diameter.
      (14)   All wireless support structures shall be constructed of corrosive-
resistant steel or other corrosive-resistant, noncombustible materials.
Wireless support structures shall not be constructed or made of wood, including
timbers or logs.
      (15)   All electric, telephone, cable, fiber, or other utility necessary
to operate a small wireless facility shall be installed within the applicable
wireless support structure where practicable. All of a small wireless facility
that is affixed to a wireless support structure which has exterior exposure
shall be as close to the color of the wireless support structure as is
commercially available.
      (16)   No wireless support structure shall have constructed on it, or
attached to it, in any way, any platform, catwalk, crow's nest or similar
structure, except structures necessary for the maintenance of small wireless
facilities.
      (17)   Wireless support structures and small wireless facilities shall be
grounded for protection against a direct strike by lightning and shall comply,
as to electrical wiring and connections, with all applicable provisions of this
Code.
      (18)   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall be
located so as not to obstruct traffic lights, traffic signs, street signs, or
wayfinding signage.
      (19)   No small wireless facility or wireless support structure shall be
located in a position that disrupts traffic or pedestrian circulation or
interferes with vehicle and pedestrian sight lines.
      (20)   Ground-mounted equipment associated with a small wireless facility
is prohibited unless the applicant can show that ground-mounted equipment is
necessary for operation of the small wireless facility. If ground-mounted
equipment is necessary, it shall be placed below grade unless not technically
feasible. If ground-mounted equipment is placed above grade, the design of
ground equipment shall minimize its visual impact in the right-of-way. Ground-
mounted equipment shall not disrupt traffic or pedestrian circulation or
interfere with vehicle and pedestrian sight lines.
      (21)   A permit for a small wireless facility that has ground-mounted
equipment will only be issued if the city finds:
         (a)   The ground-mounted equipment will not disrupt traffic or
pedestrian circulation;
         (b)   The ground-mounted equipment will not create a safety hazard;
         (c)   The location of the ground-mounted equipment minimizes impacts
on adjacent property; and
         (d)   The ground-mounted equipment will not adversely impact the
health, safety, or welfare of the community.
      (22)   Ground-mounted equipment for a small wireless facility must be set
back from a sidewalk by a minimum of three feet.
      (23)   Vegetative or other screening compatible with the surrounding area
shall be provided around ground-mounted equipment if deemed necessary by the
City Engineer or designee.
      (24)   Small wireless facilities shall not be permitted to collocate on a
decorative wireless support structure, sign or other structure not intended to
support small wireless facilities if it will alter the appearance or intended
purpose of such sign or structure.
      (25)   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the city may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of such structure.
      (26)   A right-of-way user shall promptly and at its own expense, with
due regard for seasonal working conditions, temporarily or permanently remove
and relocate its small wireless facilities and wireless support structures in
the right-of-way when it is necessary to prevent interference, and not merely
for convenience of the city, in connection with:
         (a)   A present or future city use of the right-of-way for a public
project;
         (b)   The public health or safety;
         (c)   The safety and convenience of travel over the right-of-way.
   (D)   Small wireless facility agreement. A small wireless facility shall
only be collocated on a small wireless support structure owned or controlled by
the city, or any other city asset in the right-of-way, after the applicant has
executed a standard small wireless facility collocation agreement with the
city. The standard collocation agreement may require payment of the following:
      (1)   $150 per year for rent to collocate on the city structure.
      (2)   $25 per year for maintenance associated with the collocation.
      (3)   A monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
         (a)   $73 per radio node less than or equal to 100 maximum watts;
         (b)   $182 per radio node over 100 maximum watts;
         (c)   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual costs exceed the
foregoing.
The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of,
the required small wireless facility permit fee, provided however, that the
applicant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or franchise
in order to collocate. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit does not
supersede, alter or affect any then-existing agreement between the city and
applicant.
   (E)   Action on small wireless facility permit applications.
      (1)   Deadline for action. The city shall approve or deny a small
wireless facility permit application for collocation of a small wireless
facility on a preexisting structure within 60 days after filing of a complete
application. The city shall approve or deny a small wireless facility permit
application for construction of a new wireless support structure within 90 days
after filing of a complete application. The small wireless facility permit, and
any associated building permit application, shall be deemed approved if the
city fails to approve or deny the application within 90 days of receipt of a
complete application.
      (2)   Consolidated applications. An applicant may file a consolidated
small wireless facility permit application addressing the proposed collocation
of up to 15 small wireless facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by a
local government unit, provided that all small wireless facilities in the
application:
         (a)   Are located within a two-mile radius;
         (b)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         (c)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support
structures.
In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the city may
approve some small wireless facilities and deny others, but may not use denial
of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless facilities in the
application.
      (3)   Tolling of deadline. The deadline for action on a small wireless
facility permit application may be tolled if:
         (a)   The city receives applications from one or more applicants
seeking approval of permits for more than 30 small wireless facilities within a
seven-day period. In such case, the city may extend the deadline for all such
applications by 30 days by informing the affected applicants in writing of such
extension.
         (b)   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or
information and the city provides written notice of incompleteness to the
applicant within 30 days of receipt of the application. Upon submission of
additional documents or information, the city shall have ten days to notify the
applicant in writing of any still-missing information.
         (c)   The city and a small wireless facility applicant agree in
writing to toll the review period.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.40 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an Excavation permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs;
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee.  The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management
costs.
   (C)   Small wireless facility permit fee. The city shall impose a small
wireless facility permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover:
      (1)   Management costs;
      (2)   City engineering, make-ready and construction costs associated with
collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (D)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay such fees within 30 days of billing.
   (E)   Non refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
94.50 are not refundable.
   (F)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (G)   Fee resolution. Fees will be set from time to time by ordinance by
City Council.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.41 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
94.44.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following such
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee's improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30days of billing, all costs associated
with correcting the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rule
7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the city and shall comply with Minn. Rule 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee
upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the city. Said work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city,
not including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
94.44.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.42 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time. Joint
applications shall name a primary registrant as a single contact and holder of
restoration and permit closure responsibilities.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the city does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint
permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With city projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the city, whether or not it is a joint application by
two or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the
excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit would still be required.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.43 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area.  A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater
area:
       (1)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional
fees required thereby, and
      (2)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.44 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the city or other applicable
rule, law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to M.S. § 216D.01-.09
(Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn. Rules Chapter 7560. A
permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable codes and
established rules and regulations, and is responsible for all work done in the
right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with city parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   (D)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to Horizontal Directional Drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Chapter 216D and Minn. Rules Chapter 7560, and shall require potholing or
open cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating, as
determined by the city.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.45 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Reasons for denial. The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the
requirements and conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the
denial is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use.
   (B)   Procedural requirements. The denial of a permit must be made in
writing and must document the basis for the denial. The city must notify the
applicant in writing within three business days of the decision to deny a
permit. If an application is denied, the right-of-way user may address the
reasons for denial identified by the city and resubmit its application. If the
application is resubmitted within 30 days of receipt of the notice of denial,
no additional application fee shall be imposed. The city must approve or deny
the resubmitted application within 30 days after submission.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.46 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other
work performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn.
Rules 7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the M.S. § 237.162 and 237.163.
Installation of service laterals shall be performed in accordance with Minn.
Rules Chapter 7560 and these sections. Service lateral installation is further
subject to those requirements and conditions set forth by the city in the
applicable permits and/or agreements referenced in §
94.51(B).
   (B)   All traffic control will comply with the current edition of the "MnDOT
Field Traffic Control Manual".
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.47 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to the
city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of city.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the city may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The city may issue an order to the permittee for any work that does
not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the city that the
violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented within the
required time, the city may revoke the permit pursuant to  §
94.50.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.48 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. Each registrant shall immediately notify the
city of any event regarding its facilities that it considers to be an
emergency. The registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to
respond to the emergency. Excavators' notification to Gopher State One Call
regarding an emergency situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two
(2) business days after the occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall
apply for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill
the rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with
this chapter for the actions it took in response to the emergency.
      (1)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant's
facilities, the city will attempt to contact the local representative of each
registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency.
      (2)   In any event, the city may take whatever action it deems necessary
to respond to the emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant
whose facilities occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
city code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to
the right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.49 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.50 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee's control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to Sec. 1.19.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to so
contact the city, or permittee's failure to timely submit an acceptable plan,
or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs.  If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
   (E)   Revocation. The revocation of a permit must be made in writing and
document the basis for the revocation. The city must notify the right-of-way
user within three business days of the decision to revoke a permit.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.51 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   (1)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall
provide mapping information required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within one calendar year following completion of any
work pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the city accurate maps
or drawings certifying the "as built" location of all equipment installed,
owned and maintained by the permittee in both digital and hard copy. As built
drawings shall be submitted in the following three\ forms:
         (a)   Digital: CAD or GIS (dwg or shp).
         (b)   Digital: Image file (pdf, jpg, etc.).
         (c)   Hard copy.
      (2)   Such maps and drawings shall include the horizontal and vertical
location of all facilities and equipment and shall be provided consistent with
the city's electronic mapping system, when practical or as a condition imposed
by the city. Failure to provide maps and drawings pursuant to this division
shall be grounds for revoking the permit holder's registration.
   (B)   Service laterals.  
      (1)   All permits issued for the installation or repair of service
laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules 7560.0150 , Subp.
2, shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of establishing the
horizontal locations of installed service laterals, and the service lateral
vertical locations in those cases where the city reasonably requires it. This
shall include, but not be limited to demonstrating to the satisfaction of the
city a passing continuity test and satisfaction that tracer wire installation
is acceptable and in conformance with current city specifications and standard
details. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the city evidence
satisfactory of the installed service lateral locations. Compliance with this
division (B) and with applicable Gopher State One Call law and Minnesota Rules
governing service laterals install after December 31, 2005, shall be a
condition of any city approval necessary for:
         (a)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project
including those under M.S. Chapter 429; and
         (b)   City approval of performance under development agreements, or
other subdivision or site plan approval under M.S. Chapter 462.
      (2)   The city shall reasonably determine the appropriate method of
providing such information. Failure to provide prompt and accurate information
on the service laterals installed may result in the revocation of the permit
issued for the work or for future permits to the offending permittee or its
subcontractors.
   (C)   As builts. As builts will be required in hard copy and electronically
if the project permitted deviates two feet or more from the original plans
submitted to the city. Failure to submit an as built will be a certification by
the permittee that the project as constructed does not deviate two feet or more
from the original plan submitted.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.52 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply with the
Act, with other applicable law, and with Minn. Rules 7819.3100, 7819.5000 and
7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available
to cities.
   (B)   (1)   Corridors. The city may assign a specific area within the right-
of-way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
      (2)   Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the city shall, no later than at
the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the
facilities are located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the
right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the city for good cause
shown, upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the
facilities, public safety, customer service needs and hardship to the
registrant.
   (C)   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this chapter, any facilities
found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be deemed to be a
nuisance. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   (D)   Limitation of space. To protect health, safety, and welfare, or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the city shall have
the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional facilities
within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the city shall strive to the
extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-
of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest,
the public's needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the
right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the
protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and future city plans
for public improvements and development projects which have been determined to
be in the public interest.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.53 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. § 216D.01-.09 ("One
Call Excavation Notice System") before the start date of any right-of-way
excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the area to be
excavated shall mark the horizontal and vertical placement of all said
facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are less than 20 inches below a
concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the excavation
contractor to establish the exact location of its facilities and the best
procedure for excavation.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.54 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   The provisions of M.S. 216D shall apply to all situations involving damages
to facilities during excavation operations. Each registrant shall be
responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which
it or its facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost
of repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during
the city's response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant's facilities.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.55 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   Reservation of right. If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains the
facilities of a registrant, the registrant's rights in the vacated right-of-way
are governed by Minn. Rules 7819.3200.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.56 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the city, or by accepting a permit under this chapter, a
registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance
with the provisions of Minn. Rule 7819.1250.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.57 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the city that the registrant's obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by
another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the city.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.58 APPEAL.
   (A)   A right-of-way user that:
      (1)   Has been denied registration;
      (2)   Has been denied a permit;
      (3)   Has had a permit revoked;
      (4)   Believes that the fees imposed are not in conformity with M.S. §
237.163, Subd. 6; or
      (5) Disputes a determination of the city regarding §
94.51(B) may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or decision reviewed,
upon written request, by the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall act on a timely written request within 45 days
of receipt, provided the right-of-way user has submitted its appeal with
sufficient time to include the appeal as a regular agenda item. A decision by
the City Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in
writing and supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of
the decision.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.59 FRANCHISE HOLDERS.
   If there is a conflict in language between the franchise of a person holding
a franchise agreement with the city and this section, the terms of the
franchise shall prevail.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
§ 94.60 MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Unless authorized by this chapter, no privately owned structure, sign
or vending machine shall be located within a public right of way.
   (B)   Newspaper vending machines.
      (1)   Notification to city. No newspaper vending machine may be placed or
maintained in a public right-of-way without the approval of the City Manager or
his or her designee, in writing, of the location of the vending machine.
      (2)   Requests for newspaper vending machine placement shall be made to
the City Manager or his or her designee in writing by the publisher.
      (3)   Placement conditions. When considering a request, the City Manager
or his or her designee shall take into consideration the following:
         (a)   Distance from roadway. A newspaper vending machine may be placed
no nearer than four feet from the roadway curb or the edge of the roadway where
no curb exists and shall not obstruct a pathway.
         (b)   Maximum size. The maximum size of a newspaper vending machine
shall be four feet high, two feet long and two feet deep.
         (c)   Number of machines. No more than one newspaper vending machine
per newspaper publisher may be placed within 800 feet of any other newspaper
vending machine of that same newspaper publisher.
         (d)   Attachment to public facility prohibited. No newspaper vending
machine may be attached to a public facility such as a utility pole, roadway
sign or fireplug.
         (e)   Color and identification. A newspaper vending machine shall be
of a single color except for lettering on the machine which shall not exceed
four inches in height. Such lettering shall identify the newspaper only and
shall not be an advertising sign.
         (f)   Removal. At the request of the City Manager, a newspaper vending
machine shall be removed in order to permit right-of-way improvements or
maintenance, if its location is a safety hazard or if the vending machine
significantly interferes with pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the right-of-
way.
         (g)   Residential areas. No newspaper vending machine may be placed in
a public right-of- way adjacent to a property zoned residential and containing
four residential units or less.
      (4)   Abatement of non-conforming newspaper vending machines. Newspaper
vending machines deemed by the city to be non-conforming to the considerations
of this subchapter shall be removed by the publisher upon request of the city.
If after 30 days the city's request to remove has not been fully acted upon by
the publisher, the city may remove it and notify the publisher in writing that
it may be picked up.
   (C)   Dumpsters, roll-Offs or similar waste receptacles. No dumpster, roll-
off, tub, moving containers such as PODs, or similar receptacle intended to
contain waste, construction debris, and the like, may be placed or permitted to
stand on any public right-of-way without a permit from the city, pursuant to
Chapter 110. Clean up of the placement site and or any damage to public right-
of-way shall be the responsibility of the contractor. All receptacles must have
a two-inch wide reflective band three feet up from the bottom of receptacle on
all four sides (or approved equal). The contractor shall make all necessary
efforts to assure the material integrity of streets, alleys and public rights-
of-way. This may include the placement of boards or similar product to prevent
damage. The city reserves the right to limit placement and or the number of
days allowed.
   (D)   Rain gardens. Rain gardens shall be allowed in the right-of-way to the
extent that they are allowed by and comply with the provisions of §
154.010.
(Ord. 754, passed 9-6-2016 ; Am. Ord. 780, passed 4-2-19)
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Trapping license
Regulations
   
95.15   Running at large
   
95.16   Vaccinations
   
95.17   Biting animals
   
95.18   Diseased animals
   
95.19   Dangerous animals
   
95.20   Muzzling of animals
   
95.21   Interference with officers and Animal Wardens
   
95.22   Gifts of certain animals prohibited
   
95.23   Exotic pets/non-domestic animals/farm animals
   
95.24   Humane care
   
95.25   Dog kennels; license required
   
95.26   Nuisances and animal waste
Administration and Enforcement
   
95.40   Impounding
   
95.41   Notice to owner and redemption
   
95.42   Animal Warden and deputies
   
95.43   Officers may kill animals
   
95.44   Manager authorized to contract for pounding services
   
95.45   Lien for pounding and transportation costs and notices
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. An animal of any kind, domestic or nondomestic.
   ANIMAL WARDEN. Any person or persons appointed by the Manager as Animal
Warden or deputies to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Any animal within the city, except:
      (1)   Any domestic animal on a leash when under the physical control of
any person;
      (2)   Any domestic animal within any motor vehicle; and
      (3)   Any domestic animal upon the premises of the owner or harbor
   CHICKEN. A domesticated bird of the species Gallus gallus domesticus that
serves as a source of eggs and/or meat.
   COLONY. An aggregate of bees consisting principally of workers, but having,
when perfect, one queen, drones, brood, combs and honey.
   COOP. The structure for the keeping or housing of chickens.
   DOG. All dogs, male and female, spayed or unspayed of any age.
   DOG KENNEL. Any location where more than two dogs being kept for personal
use or for sale. Puppies less than three months old are exempt.
   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. All dogs and cats, male and female, spayed or unspayed of
any age.
   EXOTIC PETS/NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, non-domestic animals shall include:
      (1)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
      (2)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
      (3)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
      (4)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, or squirrel.
      (5)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
      (6)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which can
be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not limited
to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   FARM ANIMALS.  Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing
work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, FARM ANIMALS shall
include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows,
bulls), sheep, turkeys, fowl (ducks, geese), swine (including Vietnamese pot-
bellied pigs), goats, and other animals associated with a farm, ranch or
stable.
   HEN. A female chicken.
   HIVE. The receptacle inhabited by a colony that is manufactured for that
purpose.
   HONEYBEE. All life stages of the common domestic honey bee, apis mellifera.
African subspecies and Africanized hybrids are not considered to be honeybees
for the purposes of this chapter.
   OWNER. Any person owning, harboring or keeping an animal of any kind.
   ROOSTER. A male chicken.
   RUN. A fully enclosed area attached to a coop where hens can roam.
(`89 Code, § 173.010) (Am. Ord. 712, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 788, passed
12-17-2019; Am. Ord. 791, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 95.02 TRAPPING LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall engage in trapping of animals within the city without
obtaining a special single use license from the City Manager for control of
nuisance animals.
   (B)   No traps shall be sold to or purchased by any person under 18 years of
age.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRAP. Any mechanical device or snare which seeks to hold, capture or kill
an animal.
      TRAPPING. The setting, laying, using or having in possession, except at
their own home or in their own motor vehicle, a trap, unless authorized by this
section.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to traps specifically designed to kill
rats, mice, gophers or moles, nor does it apply to cage-type live traps
employed for the control of nuisance animals as long as such traps are tended
to each 12 hours.
(`89 Code, § 173.230) (Am. Ord. 788, passed 12-17-2019)
Penalty, see § 10.99
REGULATIONS
§ 95.15 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   The running at large of any animal in the city is declared to be a
nuisance and is prohibited. A person who owns, harbors, or keeps a domestic
animal that runs at large shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any such animals found running at large shall be impounded, and a
notice of impounding posted as provided for dogs in § 95.40. Sale of impounded
animals shall proceed as provided for dogs in § 95.41.
   (C)   Animals may be redeemed prior to their sale or disposition by the
owner upon payment to the City Manager of a fee to be determined by Council
Ordinance.
(`89 Code, § 173.020) (Am. Ord. 712, passed 11-15-2011)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.16 VACCINATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any domestic animal to keep or
maintain such unless it shall have been vaccinated by a licensed veterinary
surgeon with anti-rabies vaccine.
(`89 Code, § 173.070) (Am. Ord. 788, passed 12-17-2019)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.17 BITING ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for an owner to fail to restrain an animal from biting
any person, whether or not the owner is present at the time of the bite.
Whenever any person owning an animal within the city shall learn that such
animal has bitten any human being, such person shall immediately impound said
animal in a place of confinement where it cannot escape or have access to any
human being or other animal and shall also immediately notify the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   The Chief of Police when informed that an animal has bitten any human
being shall ascertain the identity of such animal and the person owning or
harboring and shall immediately direct such person to immediately impound such
animal as herein required. The Chief of Police shall also immediately notify
the Manager of the place where the animal is impounded.
   (C)   Any animal which has bitten a human being shall be impounded
continuously for ten days. The Manager or designee shall inspect said animal
from time to time during its period of confinement and determine whether such
animal is infected with rabies. For this purpose he or she shall have access to
the premises where such animal is kept at all reasonable hours and may take
possession of the animal and confine it in the city pound or other suitable
place at the expense of the owner. The owner or person in possession or
harboring such animal shall immediately notify the Manager or designee of any
evidence of sickness or disease in the animal during its period of confinement
and shall promptly deliver its carcass to the Manager or designee in case of
its death during such period.
(`89 Code, § 173.110)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.18 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the city and a warrant to search for and seize the animal is not
required.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person, the Animal Control Officer or a police
officer. The officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If
the animal is found to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the
health and safety of the city, the officer shall cause the animal to be
painlessly killed and shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or
keeper of the animal killed under this section shall be liable to the city for
the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any
veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
(Am. Ord. 788, passed 12-17-2019)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.19 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   The provisions of M.S. §§ 347.50 through 347.565 are adopted and
incorporated as if fully set out herein, except that all references to “dog”
shall be replaced with “animal”. In addition to those provisions, the following
also apply.
   (B)   Attack by an animal.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person’s animal to inflict or attempt
to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal whether or not the owner
is present. This division shall not apply to an attack by an animal under the
control of an on- duty law enforcement officer or to an attack upon an intruder
who has entered the owner’s property with criminal intent.
      (2)   If any Police Officer or Animal Control Officer is witness to an
attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer may take
whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an end and
prevent further injury to the victim.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on or
disfigurement to a human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the
owner’s property;
         (c)   Previously been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the
owner has notice that the animal is potentially dangerous, the animal
aggressively bit, attacked, or endangered the safety of humans or domestic
animals; or
         (d)   When unprovoked, bitten one or more persons on two or more
occasions.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   When unprovoked, inflicted bites on a human or domestic animal
on public or private property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private
property, other than the animal owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of
attack;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal; or
         (d)   Had a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely locked pen
or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to provide
protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure
in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
barriers  which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications.
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11 gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be 1 1/4- inch or larger steel pipe buried in
the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the
sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely excited,
stimulated, agitated, or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the animal has committed one of the acts stated in the
definition for “potentially dangerous animal” in division (C). When an animal
is declared potentially dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one
owner of the animal to be notified pursuant to division (F)(1).
   (E)   Designation as a dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall
designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving evidence that the
animal has committed one of the acts stated in the definition of “dangerous
animal” in division (C). When an animal is declared dangerous, the Animal
Control Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified pursuant to
division (F)(1).
   (F)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous or potentially dangerous may proceed in the following
manner.
      (1)   The Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to
be notified in writing or in person that the animal is dangerous or potentially
dangerous and may order the animal seized or make orders as deemed proper. This
owner shall be notified as to dates, times, places, and parties bitten, and
shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by requesting a hearing for a
review of this determination.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous or potentially dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be
held before the City Manager or their designees, which shall set a date for
hearing not more than 14 days after a demand for the hearing. The records of
the Animal Control Officer shall be admissible for consideration by the City
Manager or their designees without further foundation. After considering all
evidence pertaining to the temperament of the animal, the City Manager or their
designees shall make an order as it deems proper. In the event that the
designation is upheld, actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000
will be the responsibility of the animal’s owner.
   (G)   Conditions. Following designation as a dangerous or potentially
dangerous animal, the following conditions will apply.
      (1)   The Animal Control Officer may impose conditions it deems necessary
to protect the safety of the public.
      (2)   The owner must comply with all state statutory requirements.
      (3)   The owner of the animal must immediately register the animal with
the Animal Control Officer and pay the registration fee. The owner must provide
the address where the animal resides.
      (4)   The owner shall notify the Animal Control Officer in writing if the
animal is to be relocated from its current address or given or sold to another
person. The notification shall be given in writing at least 14 days prior to
the relocation or transfer of ownership. The notification shall include the
current owner’s name and address, the relocation address, and the name of the
new owner, if any.
   (H)   Seizure. The Animal Control Officer must seize an animal for any of
the reasons listed in M.S. § 347.54. The Animal Control Officer may seize an
animal for failure to comply with any conditions imposed under this section,
and said animal may be reclaimed upon payment of fees and proof of compliance.
The Animal Control Officer may seize an animal pending destruction. If the
animal is ordered into custody, the owner shall immediately make the animal
available to the Animal Control Officer. If the owner does not immediately make
the animal available, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain an order or
warrant authorizing the seizure of the animal from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (I)   Destruction.
      (1)   The Animal Control Officer is authorized to order that an animal be
destroyed based on a written order containing one or more of the following
findings of fact:
         (a)   The animal inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human
on public or private property without provocation;
         (b)   The animal inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or
private property without provocation;
         (c)   The animal bit multiple human victims on public or private
property in the same attack without provocation;
         (d)   The animal bit a human on public or private property without
provocation in an attack where more than one animal participated in the attack;
or
         (e)   The animal has been declared dangerous or potentially dangerous,
and the owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or unwillingness to
control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or other animals.
      (2)   The owner shall be provided written notice of the order for
destruction and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by requesting a
hearing for a review of this determination. If an owner requests a hearing
under this section, the hearing shall be held before the City Council, which
shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after a demand for the
hearing. The records of the Animal Control Officer, City Manager, or their
designees’ shall be admissible for consideration by the City Council without
further foundation. After considering all evidence pertaining to destruction of
the animal, the City Council shall make an order as it deems proper.
      (3)   If the owner does not request a hearing within 14 days, the animal
may be destroyed. No person shall harbor an animal after it has been ordered
into custody for destruction. If the owner does not immediately make the animal
available, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain an order or warrant
authorizing the seizure of the animal from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Am. Ord. 769, passed 7-17-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.20 MUZZLING OF ANIMALS.
   Whenever the Manager or designee shall so request in writing stating
reasons, the Mayor shall issue a proclamation ordering every person owning an
animal to muzzle it. No person shall violate such proclamation, and any
unmuzzled animal running at large during the time fixed in the proclamation
shall be killed by the police without any notice to the owner.
(`89 Code, § 173.120)
§ 95.21 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS AND ANIMAL WARDENS.
   No person shall take or attempt to take from any officer or Animal Warden
any animal taken up in compliance with this chapter or in any manner interfere
with or hinder such officer or Animal Warden in the discharge of duties under
this chapter.
(`89 Code, § 173.130)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.22 GIFTS OF CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person not duly licensed to operate a pet shop by the Council shall give
away baby chickens, baby ducks, other unmatured small fowl or baby rabbits as
prizes or pets.
(`89 Code, § 173.140)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.23 EXOTIC PETS/NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS/FARM ANIMALS.
   No person shall harbor any exotic pets, non- domestic pets, or farm animals,
nor build, maintain or use a structure for the keeping of such animals within
the city limits. Exceptions include those animals in the divisions below, and
shall not be kept within the city without first registering with the city.
   (A)   Keeping of chickens.
      (1)   Intent. It is recognized that the ability to cultivate one's own
food is a sustainable activity that can also be a rewarding pastime and the
intent of this section is to allow the keeping and maintenance of hens in a
clean and sanitary manner that does not create a nuisance and is not
detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
city.
      (2)   Registration required. No person shall keep, maintain, or otherwise
care for hens within the city without first registering with the city.
      (3)   Conditions. The keeping of hens is permitted, pursuant to a
registration issued under this section, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   In no case shall the number of hens on the property exceed six.
         (b)   Hens must be kept in a coop. An exception may be made for hens
under four months in age to be temporarily kept in an accessory structure to
facilitate the regulation of their temperature.
         (c)   Hens must be contained within the coop or run whenever
unattended, but when attended by the owner, may be allowed in a yard completely
fenced by a fence at least four feet in height. Hens must be confined to the
owner's premises at all times, may not roam at large, and must be secured
inside a coop from sunset to sunrise each day.
         (d)   One coop and run structure is permitted per property. The coop
and run shall be located in the rear yard and shall be at least 15 feet from
all property lines. The coop and run may not be located in the front yard. A
portable coop and run is allowed, but must be identified on the required site
plan and shall comply with the setback requirements of this provision.
         (e)   A coop shall provide a minimum of four square feet of floor
space per hen. A coop shall not exceed 15 feet in height.
         (f)   The coop and run shall be constructed and maintained so as to be
predator- and rodent-proof and must be maintained in good condition and working
order.
         (g)   All grains and other hen food must be kept in rodent-proof
container.
         (h)   All premises in which hens are kept or maintained shall be kept
reasonably clean from filth, garbage, and any substances which attract rodents.
A coop and its surroundings, including any run, must be cleaned frequently
enough to control odor. Feces shall not be allowed to accumulate in a way that
creates an unsanitary condition or causes odors detectible on another property.
         (i)   Keeping of hens shall be subject to humane care and nuisance
regulations in §§
95.24 and
95.26.
         (j)   Dead hens must be disposed of according to the Minnesota Board
of Animal Health rules.
         (k)   Roosters are prohibited.
         (l)   Breeding is prohibited.
         (m)   Slaughtering on site is prohibited.
         (n)   Sale of eggs on site is prohibited.
      (4)   Registration process.
         (a)   An applicant shall complete a registration form provided by the
city. The registration shall include a description the coop and run. The
applicant must also provide a site plan depicting the property and showing the
location, size and setbacks of the coop and run from all property lines.
         (b)   Applicants who are not the owner of record of the property where
hens will be kept shall provide evidence of the property owner's consent to the
keeping of hens on the property.
         (c)   An initial inspection of the coop, run, fence and property is
required to verify compliance with this section and the site plan submitted
with the registration prior to moving hens on to the property.
      (5)   Right of entry for inspection. City staff may enter and inspect any
property for which a hen registration has been processed following notice to
the property owner at any reasonable time for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with this section. It shall be deemed a violation of this section
for any person to resist, impede, or hinder city staff or their designee in the
performance of their duties in inspecting any chicken-related materials.
      (6)   Violation and penalties. If a violation of the terms of this
section or the registration is found, the city shall give written notice
thereof to the registrant. If the violation is not remedied standard Code
Enforcement procedures will occur and/or the registration may be revoked.
   (B)   Keeping of bees.
      (1)   Certain beekeeping permitted. It is the purpose and the intent of
this section to permit the keeping of honeybees, subject to the regulations
contained hereinafter. It is recognized that the ability to cultivate one's own
food is a sustainable activity that can also be a rewarding pastime, and that
honeybees can be maintained within populated areas without causing a nuisance
if carefully managed. It is the purpose and intent of this section to permit
the keeping of bees in such ways that is not a nuisance or detrimental to the
public health, safety, or welfare.
      (2)   Registration required. No person shall keep, maintain, or otherwise
care for bees within the city without first registering with the city.
      (3)   Conditions. The keeping of honeybees is permitted pursuant to a
permit issued under this section, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   No more than four colonies may be kept on any one property.
         (b)   Honeybee colonies shall be kept in hives with removable frames,
which shall be kept in sound and usable condition. Each hive structure shall
not exceed 20 cubic feet in volume.
         (c)   A convenient source of water shall be available within ten feet
of the hives at all times that the colonies remain active outside of the hive.
An adjacent lake or pond shall not constitute an acceptable convenient source
of water.
         (d)   No wax comb or other material that might encourage robbing by
other bees shall be left exposed outdoors. Such materials shall be stored in
sealed insect-proof containers or placed within a building.
         (e)   Beekeeping equipment shall be maintained in good condition and
unused beekeeping equipment shall be protected to prevent occupancy by swarming
honeybees.
         (f)   Hives shall be continuously managed to provide adequate living
space for their resident honeybees to control swarming.
         (g)   In any instance in which a colony exhibits unusually aggressive
behavior or becomes diseased, it shall be the duty of the registrant to
promptly take appropriate action to address the behavior.
         (h)   Hives must be located at least 15 feet from all property lines.
Hives may not be located in a front yard.
         (i)   The front entrance of all colony hives must face into the
registrant's property.
         (j)   A flyaway barrier shall shield any part of a property line that
is within 20 feet from a hive. The flyaway barrier shall be six feet in height
and shall consist of a wall, fence, dense vegetation or a combination thereof
such that the bees will fly over, rather than through to reach the hive. If the
adjoining property is undeveloped, with no trails of sidewalks located within
20 feet of the property line, a flyaway barrier is not required.
         (k)   Sale of honey on site is prohibited.
      (4)   Registration process.
         (a)   An applicant shall complete a registration form provided by the
city. The application shall include a site plan depicting the property and show
the location, size, and type of the hives.
         (b)   Applicants shall complete a beekeeping training course prior to
registration approval. Proof of completion of the required training course
shall be provided at the time of registration. The curriculum of the beekeeping
course shall be similar to that of the beekeeping courses offered by the
University of Minnesota, Century College, or the Three Rivers Park District.
         (c)   Applicants who are not the owner of record of the property where
honeybees will be kept shall provide evidence of the property owner's consent
to the beekeeping activity on the property.
         (d)   An initial inspection of the property, hive(s), water source,
and flyaway barrier is required to verify compliance with this section and the
site plan submitted with the registration prior to bringing bees on to the
property.
      (5)   Right of entry for inspection. City staff may enter and inspect any
property for which a beekeeping permit has been issued following notice to the
property owner at any reasonable time for the purpose of ensuring compliance
with this section.
      (6)   Violation and penalties. If a violation of the terms of this
section or the registration is found, the city shall give written notice
thereof to the registrant. If the violation is not remedied standard Code
Enforcement procedures will occur and/or the registration may be revoked.
(Am. Ord. 712, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 791, passed 5-19-2020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.24 HUMANE CARE.
   (A)   All owners shall provide their animal with sufficient food and water,
proper shelter, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering and with
humane care and treatment. No person shall poison, ill treat or abandon any
animal. Unwanted animals may be given to the Animal Warden at no cost to the
owner.
   (B)   Whenever the Animal Warden encounters a stray animal suffering pain,
he or she shall act promptly to notify the owner. If unable to ascertain or
locate the owner, he or she may take the animal to a veterinarian for treatment
or to the pound for disposition. The cost of any care or treatment shall be
borne by the owner.
(`89 Code, § 173.190)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.25 DOG KENNELS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Definition of KENNEL. The keeping of three or more dogs on the same
premises, whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose
kept, shall constitute a KENNEL except that a fresh litter of pups may be kept
for a period of three months before that keeping shall be deemed to be a
KENNEL.
   (B)   Certain kennels are nuisances. Because the keeping of six or more dogs
on the same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons
in the area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general aesthetic depreciation,
the keeping of six or more dogs on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel with six or more dogs
within the city.
   (C)   Kennel permit. A kennel permit is required before three or more dogs
may be kept on the same premises. The permit shall be obtained from the City
Clerk. All permits shall be valid for two years from January 1 to December 31
of the following year. Persons operating or maintaining a kennel as defined by
M.S. § 347.31, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time, shall also
obtain a kennel license from the state Board of Animal Health before being
issued a kennel permit by the city.
   (D)   Kennels shall be kept in a clean and sanitary manner, all animals
shall be treated humanely, and the owners or operators of all kennels shall
follow all of the provisions of Minn. Rules parts 1720.1400 to 1720.1550, as
they may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   A kennel permit may be revoked by the City Council if a kennel is not
kept in a clean and sanitary manner, if the animals are not treated humanely,
if the kennel does not comply with the above cited rules, or if any other
provision of this subchapter is violated, including the prohibition of habitual
barking and the requirement to clean up litter.
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
subchapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, and the penalty
which may be imposed shall be that in §
10.99.
(`89 Code, § 173.220) (Am. Ord. 765, passed 12-5-2017; Am. Ord. 788, passed 12-
17-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.26 NUISANCES AND ANIMAL WASTE.
   (A)   Every owner of a domestic animal shall exercise proper care and
control of the animal to prevent the animal from becoming a public nuisance.
Molesting passers-by; chasing persons, vehicles, bicycles, skateboarders,
roller skaters and the like; attacking persons or other domestic animals;
damaging property; running at large; or similar acts performed by animals shall
be deemed a nuisance.
   (B)   The owner or custodian of any animal must dispose of all waste and
excrement properly as provided in this section.
      (1)   No owner or custodian of any animal shall cause or allow such
animal to soil, defile or defecate on any public property or upon any street,
sidewalk, public way, play area, or common grounds owned jointly by the members
of a homeowners' or condominium association, or upon private property other
than that of the owner, unless such owner immediately removes and disposes of
all feces deposited by such animal in a sanitary manner.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring an
animal to cause or permit said animal to be on any public property or private
property not owned or possessed by such person, without having in his or her
immediate possession a device for the removal of feces and depository for the
transmission of excrement to a proper receptacle located on the property owned
or possessed by such person.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person in control of, causing or permitting
any animal to be on any public property or private property not owned or
possessed by such person, to fail to remove feces left by such animal and
dispose of it properly.
      (4)   Proper disposal of animal waste shall be limited to burial where
lawfully permitted, flushing in the toilet, bagging for disposal in the owner
or keeper's waste receptacle, and bagging for disposal in a waste receptacle in
a public park or park area.
      (5)   Disposal of animal waste in the municipal separate storm sewer
system (MS4) is prohibited.
      (6)   Disposal of animal waste in public compost is prohibited.
      (7)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the ownership or
use of any properly identified service animals, animals when used for police
activities, or tracking animals when used by or with the permission of the
appropriate authorities.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor a dog which
habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined as barking for
repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one minute of
interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner’s or
caretaker’s premises.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of this section is guilty of a
petty misdemeanor.
(`89 Code, § 173.090) (Am. Ord. 828, passed 7-16-2024)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 95.40 IMPOUNDING.
   The Animal Warden may, when necessary, apprehend any domestic animal found
running at large and impound or cause a notice of violation of this order to be
issued to the owner. The Pound Master, upon receiving any domestic animal,
shall make a complete registry, entering the breed, color and sex of such.
(`89 Code, § 173.050) (Am. Ord. 788, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 95.41 NOTICE TO OWNER AND REDEMPTION.
   Forthwith upon the impounding of any domestic animal the owner shall be
notified. The owner of any domestic animal so impounded may reclaim such upon
payment of any fine and all costs and charges incurred for impounding,
maintenance or treatment of such domestic animal. If, at the expiration of the
times specified in §
95.45 from the date of notice, or of impoundment if ownership cannot be
ascertained, such domestic animal shall not have been redeemed, it may be
disposed of according to law.
(`89 Code, § 173.060) (Am. Ord. 712, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 788, passed
12-17-2019)
§ 95.42 ANIMAL WARDEN AND DEPUTIES.
   The Manager is empowered with the consent of the Council to contract for
Animal Warden and impounding service to enforce this chapter, except §§
95.04 and
95.27. The Manager shall designate the Animal Warden and deputies, and they
shall have police powers to cite owners of animals for violations of this code
in addition to their power of impounding.
(`89 Code, § 173.080)
§ 95.43 OFFICERS MAY KILL ANIMALS.
   Police officers are authorized and empowered to kill any animal found in
violation of this chapter whenever such animal cannot be safely taken up and
impounded. No impounding or killing of any animal shall exempt the owner or
harborer of such animal from the penalties provided in this code.
(`89 Code, § 173.100)
§ 95.44 MANAGER AUTHORIZED TO CONTRACT FOR POUNDING SERVICES.
   The Manager is authorized to contract for necessary pounding services on
behalf of the city. Such services shall only be used by the city where
necessary for proper enforcement of the law or where a safety hazard exists.
(`89 Code, § 173.200)
§ 95.45 LIEN FOR POUNDING AND TRANSPORTATION COSTS AND NOTICES.
   (A)   The city may impound any animal where necessary for the proper
enforcement of the law or where a safety hazard exists. No animal which has
been impounded shall be released to the owner or custodian until all reasonable
pounding and transportation costs have been paid and the authorized person
having charge of the impounded animal shall have a lien for such costs.
   (B)   In all cases where an animal is impounded, the owner, if known, or the
custodian, if the owner is unknown, shall be immediately notified. If the owner
or custodian be unknown and cannot by reasonable effort be ascertained or shall
not, after notice, redeem such animal by paying the expenses incurred as
aforesaid, it may be treated as an estray and be dealt with as such. All
animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with humane treatment and
sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five regular business
days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal in which case it shall be kept
for seven regular business days and except if the animal is a cruelly- treated
animal in which case it shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless
sooner reclaimed by their owners or keepers as provided by this section.
(`89 Code, § 173.210)
CHAPTER 96: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND LIQUIDS
Section
Responsibility for Cleanup of Hazardous, Inflammable or Toxic Materials of
Liquids
   
96.01   Improper storage, spilling or dumping
   
96.02   Owner’s of property liable
   
96.03   Unpaid charges lien against property
   
96.04   Responsibility of owner or renter of property; exemption
Application of Lawn Fertilizer and Other Chemicals
   
96.15   License required
   
96.16   License application procedure
   
96.17   Conditions of license
   
96.18   General regulations
RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLEANUP OF HAZARDOUS, INFLAMMABLE OR TOXIC MATERIALS OF
LIQUIDS
§ 96.01 IMPROPER STORAGE, SPILLING OR DUMPING.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cause or allow any hazardous,
inflammable or toxic material or liquid to be improperly stored, spilled or
dumped upon any premises owned or occupied by said person, firm or corporation.
(`89 Code, § 139.010)
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall dump or spill any hazardous,
inflammable or toxic material or liquid upon any private or public property.
(`89 Code, § 139.020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.02 OWNER’S OF PROPERTY LIABLE.
   Any person, firm or corporation who owns property upon which any hazardous,
inflammable or toxic material or liquid is spilled, dumped or improperly stored
shall be liable to the city for any material or labor provided by the city, its
Police Department, Fire Department or Public Works Department in cleaning it up
or removing it from the property; the same is declared to be a nuisance.
(`89 Code, § 139.030)
§ 96.03 UNPAID CHARGES LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY.
   Any unpaid charges for the cleanup or removal of hazardous, inflammable or
toxic materials or liquids shall be a lien against the property that shall be
collected as a special assessment as provided by M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(`89 Code, § 139.040)
§ 96.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER OR RENTER OF PROPERTY; EXEMPTION.
   Any person, firm or corporation who owns or rents property upon which any
hazardous, inflammable or toxic material or liquid is used or stored shall
identify said materials routinely used or stored at the property, identify
safety measures used to prevent spills and other releases to the environment
and identify the proper methods of disposal to be used to the city in an annual
hazardous materials report. Inflammable materials or liquids in containers of
less than ten gallon size shall be exempt from this reporting requirement.
(`89 Code, § 139.050)
APPLICATION OF LAWN FERTILIZER AND OTHER CHEMICALS
§ 96.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, corporation or franchise shall engage in the business of
commercial lawn fertilizer or chemical applicators within the city unless a
license has been obtained from the City Manager as provided herein.
(`89 Code, § 140.010)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.16 LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Applications for a commercial lawn fertilizer applicator license for a
calendar year shall be submitted to the City Manager at least 30 days prior to
the initial lawn fertilizer or chemical application each year within the city.
   (B)   The application shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Application form. Application forms shall be provided by the city
and shall include the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant and any
individuals authorized to represent the applicant;
         (b)   Description of lawn fertilizer and other chemical formulas
proposed to be applied on lawns within the city;
         (c)   A time schedule for application of lawn fertilizer and other
chemicals and identification of weather conditions acceptable for lawn
fertilizer and other chemical application;
      (2)   Fertilizer and other chemical analysis. A chemical analysis of the
lawn fertilizer and other chemicals to be applied certified by an independent
testing laboratory shall be given to the city each year when requesting a new
license;
      (3)   License fee. The annual license fee for a commercial lawn
fertilizer applicator shall be set by Council ordinance. The license shall
expire on the December 31 of the year for which it was granted. The license fee
shall not be prorated;
   (C)   Liability bond. A bond in the amount of $1,000 shall be submitted with
the application form. The bond shall be conditioned upon compliance with the
city code. Actions to collect bond proceeds shall not prevent the city from
filing criminal complaints for ordinance violations.
(`89 Code, § 140.020)
§ 96.17 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   Commercial lawn fertilizer applicator licenses shall be issued subject to
the following conditions which shall be specified on the license form.
   (A)   Random sampling. Commercial lawn fertilizer applicators shall permit
the city to sample any commercial lawn fertilizer or other chemical application
to be applied within the city at any time after issuance of the initial
license.
   (B)   Possession of license. The commercial lawn fertilizer application
license or copy thereof shall be in the possession of any party employed by the
commercial lawn fertilizer applicator when making lawn fertilizer or other
chemical application within the city.
   (C)   State regulations. Licensee shall comply with the provisions of the
Minnesota Fertilizer and Soil Conditioner Law as contained in M.S. Chapter 18C,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Sign. A state approved universal sign, no less than three inches by
three inches and attached to a wire or stick not less than 12 inches in height
shall be placed on the lawn after application of the lawn fertilizer or other
chemical and shall remain there at least for 48 hours. The sign shall state, to
the effect: Warning - lawn fertilizer or other chemical has been applied to
this lawn by - followed by the name of the licensee.
(`89 Code, § 140.030)
§ 96.18 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Time of application. Lawn fertilizer or other chemicals shall not be
applied when the ground is frozen or between November 15 and April 15 of the
succeeding year.
   (B)   Sample analysis cost. The cost of analyzing fertilizer or other
chemical samples taken from commercial applicators shall be paid by the
commercial applicators if the sample analysis indicates that the phosphorus
content exceeds the levels authorized herein.
   (C)   Fertilizer content. No person, firm, corporation or franchise,
including homeowners and renters, shall apply liquid fertilizer or other
chemicals within the city which contains more than ½% by weight of phosphorus
or granular fertilizer or other chemical which contains more than 3% by weight
of phosphorus, unless the single application is less than or equal to 0.10
pounds of phosphorus per 1,000 square feet in the form of P205. Annual
application amount shall not exceed 0.5 pounds of phosphorus per 1,000 square
feet of lawn area.
   (D)   Impervious surfaces. No person, firm, corporation or franchise shall
apply fertilizer or other chemicals intended for lawn care to impervious
surfaces.
   (E)   Buffer zone. Fertilizer and other chemical application shall not be
made within ten feet of any wetland or water resource.
   (F)   Wind conditions. No person, firm, corporation or franchise, including
homeowners and renters, shall apply liquid fertilizer or other chemicals if it
would cause measurable and observable drift of spray onto nontargeted site
area.
(`89 Code, § 140.040)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 97: DRUGS, NARCOTICS, POISONS AND CHEMICALS
Section
   
97.01   Pharmacy Practice Act of 1988 and Uniform Controlled Substances Act
   
97.02   Possession of injection implements
   
97.03   Prohibiting inhalation of chemicals
   
97.04   Sale or possession
   
97.05   Restriction of sales to minors
   
97.06   Permanent records of sale or transfer
   
97.07   Self-service displays prohibited
   
97.08   Organized model classes excluded
   
97.09   Menace to public welfare
§ 97.01 PHARMACY PRACTICE ACT OF 1988 AND UNIFORM CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES ACT.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapters 151 and 152, each as amended by subsequent
laws of the State of Minnesota, are adopted as part of a Drug, Narcotics,
Poisons and Chemicals Ordinance regulating the transfer of possession,
possession and use of drugs, narcotics, poisons and chemicals within the city
and are incorporated in and made a part of this chapter as completely as if set
out here in full.
(`89 Code, § 133.010)
§ 97.02 POSSESSION OF INJECTION IMPLEMENTS.
   No person or persons except dealers or salespersons in surgical instruments,
registered pharmacies, licensed pharmacists, licensed doctors of medicine,
doctors of osteopathy duly licensed to practice medicine, licensed doctors of
dentistry, licensed doctors of veterinary medicine or nurses or interns in any
licensed hospital or other licensed institutions wherein sick and injured
persons are cared for or treated or bona fide hospitals wherein animals are
treated, when under the direction and supervision of a licensed doctor as
defined above, shall at any time have or possess any hypodermic syringe or
needle or any instrument or implement adapted for the use of cocaine or
narcotic drugs by subcutaneous injections, and which is possessed for that
purpose, unless such possession is authorized by the certificate of a physician
issued within the period of one year prior to any time of such possession. No
person shall use, possess or have under their control for use any stem, bowl,
lamp, yen hock or other opium-smoking paraphernalia or accessories used for the
smoking or inhalation of opium.
(`89 Code, § 133.020)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.03 PROHIBITING INHALATION OF CHEMICALS.
   No person shall inhale, breathe, drink or otherwise take into the body any
compound, liquid or chemical containing toluol, hexane, trichloroethylene,
acetone, toluene, ethyl acetate, methyl, ethyl ketone, trichloromethane,
isopropanol, methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl cellosolve acetate, cyclohexanone
or any other substance capable of inducing intoxication, elation, dizziness,
paralysis, irrational behavior or, in any manner, distorting or changing the
audio, visual or mental processes. For the purpose of this section, any such
conditions so induced shall be deemed to be an intoxicated condition; provided,
however, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to any person who
inhales, breathes or drinks such material or substance pursuant to the
direction or prescription of any licensed doctor as listed in §
97.02 and authorized to so direct or prescribe.
(`89 Code, § 133.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.04 SALE OR POSSESSION.
   No person shall, for the purpose of violating or aiding another to violate
any provisions of this chapter, intentionally possess, buy, sell, transfer
possession or receive possession of any glue or cement containing any of the
intoxicating substances defined in §
97.03.
(`89 Code, § 133.040)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.05 RESTRICTIONS OF SALES TO MINORS.
   Except as provided in division (B) of this section and §
97.06, no person under 18 years of age shall possess or buy any glue or cement
containing the intoxicating substances defined in §
97.03.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section and §
97.06, no person shall sell or transfer possession of any glue containing the
intoxicating substances defined in §
97.03 to another person under 18 years of age.
   (B)   Provided, however, a person may sell or transfer possession of any
glue containing the intoxicating substance defined in §
97.03 to a person under 18 years of age for model building or other lawful use
where said juvenile has in his or her possession and presents the written
consent of parents or guardian, which consent shall contain the address and
telephone number of said parent or guardian.
   (C)   This section shall not apply where the glue or cement is sold,
delivered or given away simultaneously with and as part of a kit used for the
construction of model airplanes, model boats, model automobiles, model trains
or other similar models.
(`89 Code, § 133.050)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.06 PERMANENT RECORDS OF SALE OR TRANSFER.
   A person making a sale or transfer of possession of any glue containing the
intoxicating substance defined in §
97.03 to a person under 18 years of age who presents the written consent of
parents or guardian shall keep the written consent required by this section in
a permanent type file available for inspection by the Police Department for a
period of at least six months.
(`89 Code, § 133.060)
§ 97.07 SELF-SERVICE DISPLAYS PROHIBITED.
   Retail establishments selling glue or cement containing the intoxicating
substances defined in §
97.03 shall not sell such glue or cement from a self- service display.
(`89 Code, § 133.070)
§ 97.08 ORGANIZED MODEL CLASSES EXCLUDED.
   This chapter shall not apply to the distribution of glue or cement by adult
supervised youth organizations for use by their regularly organized model
classes.
(`89 Code, § 133.080)
§ 97.09 MENACE TO PUBLIC WELFARE.
   Any possession, sale, distribution, prescribing, administration,
dispensation or use of drugs, controlled substances, poisons or chemicals or of
any hypodermic syringe or needle or any instrument or implement adopted for the
use of a controlled substance or any stem, bowl, lamp, yen hock or other
controlled substance smoking paraphernalia or accessories used for the smoking
or inhalation of a controlled substance contrary to the provisions of this
chapter is declared to be dangerous to the public health and a menace to the
public welfare and shall be a misdemeanor.
(`89 Code, § 133.090)
CHAPTER 98: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
98.01   Assessable current services
   
98.02   Tree diseases and damaged trees
Nuisances
   
98.15   Public nuisance
   
98.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
98.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
98.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
98.19   Duties of city officers
   
98.20   Abatement procedure
   
98.21   Substantial abatement procedure
   
98.22   Emergency abatement procedure
   
98.23   Collection of abatement costs
Weeds
   
98.35   Short title
   
98.36   Jurisdiction
   
98.37   Definitions; exclusions
   
98.38   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
98.39   Filing complaint
   
98.40   Notice of violations
   
98.41   Appeals
   
98.42   Abatement by city
   
98.43   Liability
   
98.44   Native vegetation permit
Open Burning
   
98.60   Definitions
   
98.61   Prohibited materials
   
98.62   Permit required for open burning
   
98.63   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
98.64   Permit application for open burning; permit fees
   
98.65   Permit process for open burning
   
98.66   Permit holder responsibility
   
98.67   Revocation of open burning permit
   
98.68   Denial of open burning permit
   
98.69   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
98.70   Rules and laws adopted by reference
Cross-reference:
   User charge for excessive services, see
Chapter 100
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. Shall mean one or more of the following: snow, ice, or
rubbish removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots
adjacent to sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of
public health or safety hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous
building included in M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26 as they may amended from
time to time; installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling,
street flushing, light street oiling, or other dust treatment of streets;
repair of sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of
unsound and insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property;
and the operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Manager.
   (C)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under
Chapter 52 of this code, the City Manager shall keep a record of the total cost
of the installation or repair against the property.
   (D)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys.
      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in repair and safe
for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the office of the
City Manager.
      (2)   Inspections; notice. The City Council or its designee shall make
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If it
is found that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe and
in need of repairs, the City Council shall cause a notice to be served, by
registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of
the property, ordering the owner to have the sidewalk or alley repaired and
made safe within 30 days and stating that if the owner fails to do so, the city
will do so and that the expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and if
unpaid it will be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
      (3)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within 30
days after receipt of the notice, the City Manager shall report the facts to
the City Council and the City Council shall by resolution order the work done
by contract in accordance with law. The City Manager shall keep a record of the
total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or parcel of property.
   (E)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent to
which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the
cost of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the City Manager, or other designated official, shall prepare a
bill and mail it to the owner and thereupon the amount shall be immediately due
and payable at the office of the City Manager.
   (F)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object or contrivance upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment
or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any
vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum
weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or
moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner
and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any such damage. Any
person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act damages
any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which amount shall
be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (G)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Manager
shall list the total unpaid charges for each type of current service and
charges under this section against each separate lot or parcel to which they
are attributable under this section. The City Council may then spread the
charges against property benefitted as a special assessment under the authority
of M.S. § 429.101 as it may be amended from time to time and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten,
as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.02 TREE DISEASES AND DAMAGED TREES.
   (A)   Policy statement and trees constituting nuisance declared. The health
of the trees in the city is threatened by shade-tree pests, and the loss or ill
health of trees growing upon public and private property substantially
depreciates the value of property within the city and impairs the safety, good
order, general welfare and convenience of the public. In addition to and in
accordance with M.S. §§ 89.001, 89.01, and 89.51 through 89.64, the provisions
of this section are adopted as an effort to control and prevent the spread of
these shade-tree pests. Further, trees damaged by weather or other forces that
are not promptly trimmed or removed pose a hazard to persons and property
within the city.
      The following are public nuisances whenever they may be found within the
city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau, or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which, in the opinion of the
designated officer, constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to, logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide;
      (5)   Any ash tree infested with the emerald ash borer;
      (6)   Any tree infested with the Gypsy Moth;
      (7)   Any other tree with an epidemic disease or damaged by weather or
other forces that is structurally unsound, in danger of falling or causing
damage to real property or persons if not trimmed, removed or treated.
      (8)   Any dead, non-diseased tree or part thereof which, in the opinion
of the designated officer, constitutes a hazard or public nuisance, including
but not limited to, logs, branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other material.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The city shall have control of all street trees, shrubs
and other plantings now or hereafter in any street, park, public right-of-way
or easement, or other public place within the city limits, and shall have the
power to plant, care for, maintain, remove and replace such trees, shrubs and
other plantings.
   (C)   Tree inspector. The City Manager may appoint a Tree Inspector to
coordinate the activities of the city relating to the control and prevention of
damage by shade-tree pests. The Tree Inspector will recommend to the City
Manager the details of any program for the declaration, control and prevention
of shade-tree pests. The Tree Inspector is authorized to enforce or cause to be
enforced the tasks incident to such a program adopted by the Council. The term
TREE INSPECTOR includes any person designated by City Manager or the Tree
Inspector to carry out activities authorized in this section.
   (D)   Inspection and application of control measures.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector is authorized to inspect premises and places
within the city to determine whether shade-tree pests exist thereon, and to
investigate all reported incidents of shade-tree pests. The Tree Inspector is
authorized to take all reasonable measures to prevent the maintenance of public
nuisances and may enforce the provisions relating to abatement in this section.
Diagnosis of shade-tree pests may be by the presence of commonly recognized
symptoms; by tests as may be recommended by the Commissioner of the Minnesota
Department of Agriculture or the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources; or other reliable means.
      (2)   Except in situations of imminent danger to human life and safety,
the Tree Inspector shall not enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing maintenance of public nuisances without the permission
of the owner, resident or other person in control of the property, unless the
Tree Inspector has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry.
      (3)   No person, firm or corporation shall interfere with the Tree
Inspector, or with anyone acting under the Tree Inspector's authority, while
engaged in activities authorized by this section.
   (E)   Abatement of nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit any
public nuisance, as defined in division (A) of this section, to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. Whenever a Tree Inspector
determines with reasonable certainty that a public nuisance, as described by
this section, is being maintained or exists on premises in the city, the Tree
Inspector is authorized to abate a public nuisance according to the procedures
in this division.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector will notify, in writing, the owner of record or
occupant of the premises that a public nuisance exists and order that the
nuisance be terminated or abated. The notice may be given in person or by mail.
Failure of any party to receive the mail does not invalidate the service of the
notice. A copy of the notice shall be filed with the City Manager.
      (2)   The notice of abatement shall state that, unless the public
nuisance is abated by the owner or occupant, it will be abated by the city at
the expense of the owner or occupant. The notice shall specify the control
measures to be taken to abate the nuisance, and provide a reasonable amount of
time to abate the nuisance. The notice will also state that the owner or
occupant has the right to appeal the determination that a public nuisance
exists by submitting a request, in writing, to the City Manager within seven
days after service of the notice, or before the date by which abatement must be
completed, whichever comes first.
         (a)   High-cost abatement. If the Tree Inspector determines that the
cost of abating a nuisance will exceed $5,000, based on a reasonable, good
faith estimate, the written notice referred to must provide that, if the
nuisance is not abated within the reasonable amount of time provided, the
matter will be referred to the City Council for a hearing. The date, time and
location of the hearing must be provided in the notice.
         (b)   Abatement procedure in event of imminent danger. If the Tree
Inspector determines that the danger of infestation to other shade trees is
imminent, and delay in control measures may put public health, safety or
welfare in immediate danger, the Tree Inspector may provide for abatement
without following division (1) or (2). The Tree Inspector must reasonably
attempt to notify the owner or occupant of the affected property of the
intended action and the right to appeal the abatement and any cost recovery at
the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
      (3)   If no timely appeal is submitted and the control measures
prescribed in the notice of abatement are not complied with within the time
provided by the notice or any additional time granted, the Tree Inspector or
designated person shall have the authority to obtain permission or an
administrative search warrant, enter the property, and carry out abatement in
accordance with the notice of abatement.
      (4)   If the City Manager receives a written request for a hearing on the
question of whether a public nuisance exists, the City Council shall hold a
hearing within seven calendar days following receipt by the City Manager of the
written request. At least three days notice of the hearing shall be given to
the individual who made the written request for the hearing. The Council may
modify the abatement notice or extend the time by which abatement must be
completed. Each owner, agent of the owner, occupant and lienholder of the
subject property or properties in attendance, if any, shall be given the
opportunity to present evidence at the hearing. After holding the hearing, the
City Council may issue an order requiring abatement of the nuisance.
      (5)   The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been abated by the
city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the abatement,
including administrative costs. The City Manager shall keep a record of the
costs of abatement done under this section for all work done for which
assessments are to be made, stating and certifying the description of the land,
lots, parcels involved, and the amount chargeable to each.
      (6)   On or before November 1 of each year, the City Manager shall list
the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate lot or parcel
to which they are attributable under this section. The City Council may then
spread the charges or any portion thereof against the property involved as a
special assessment, as authorized by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from
time to time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County
Auditor and collection the following year along with the current taxes.
   (F)   Reporting discovery of shade-tree pest. Any owner or occupier of land
or any person engaged in tree trimming or removal who becomes aware of the
existence of a public nuisance caused by a shade-tree pest, as defined under
division (A), shall report the same to the city.
   (G)   Registration of tree care firms.  Any person, firm or corporation that
provides tree care, tree trimming, or removal of trees, limbs, branches, brush
or shrubs for hire must be registered with the Minnesota Commissioner of
Agriculture under M. S. § 18G.07.
(Am. Ord. 718, passed 10-2-12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
NUISANCES
§ 98.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally
does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is
a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or §§
98.16,
98.17 or
98.18, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place;
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 12 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Chapter 7030, as they
may be amended from time to time which are hereby incorporated by reference
into this code.
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational device
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations.
   (F)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or
other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly
audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person
nearby. Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section.
   (G)   The participation in a party or gathering of people giving rise to
noise which disturbs the peace, quiet or repose of the occupants of adjoining
or other property.
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or
public grounds except under conditions as are permitted by this code or other
applicable law;
   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (M)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (O)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (P)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (Q)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (T)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (U)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
   (V)   Four or more code violations, fire calls or other nuisance complaints
requiring enforcement response within a 30-day period.
   (W)   Any structure which is allowed to remain with an unfinished exterior
for more than 180 days.
(Am. Ord. 672, passed 9-2-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.19 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   Any peace officer or code enforcement officer shall have the power to
inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the
commission and maintenance of public nuisances.
§ 98.20 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Unless the nuisance is as described in §§
98.21 or
98.22, the city may abate the nuisance by the procedure described below:
   (A)   Order. The enforcement officer shall serve a written order upon the
owner. The written order shall also be served upon any occupant known to the
officer and may be served upon any party known to have caused the nuisance. The
written order shall contain the following:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification;
      (2)   A description and location of the nuisance and the remedial action
required to abate the nuisance;
      (3)   The abatement deadline, to be determined by the enforcement
officer, allowing a reasonable time for the performance of any act required;
      (4)   A statement that the order may be appealed and a hearing before the
City Council obtained by filing a written request with the city before the
appeal deadline which shall be the abatement deadline designated in the order
or seven calendar days after the date of the order, whichever comes first;
      (5)   A statement that, if the remedial action is not taken nor a request
for a hearing filed with the city within the time specified, the city will
abate the nuisance and charge all costs incurred therein against the real
estate as a special assessment to be collected in the same manner as property
taxes.
   (B)   Setting hearing date. In the event that an appeal is filed with the
city, the city shall, within two weeks, fix a date for a hearing.
   (C)   Notice of hearing date. In the event that an appeal is filed, the city
shall mail a notice of the date, time, place and subject of the hearing to the
owner and known occupants. The city shall also notify the enforcement officer.
   (D)   Hearing before the City Council. The hearing shall be convened by the
Mayor. The City Manager shall present written findings and recommendations and
the property owner may present evidence and testimony to support the appeal of
the abatement order. The City Council may confirm, modify, revoke, alter or
cancel the order of the City Manager.
   (E)   Abatement Action. If the Council determination requires abatement, the
City Council shall, in the resolution, fix a time within which the nuisance
must be abated and shall provide that, if the nuisance is not eliminated within
the time specified, the city may abate the nuisance and assess the costs of the
abatement to the subject real estate as a special assessment. If the remedial
action is not taken nor an appeal filed within the time specified, the city may
abate the nuisance.
(Am. Ord. 653, passed 5-17-2005; Am. Ord. 661, passed 9-5-2006)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.21 SUBSTANTIAL ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   When the enforcement officer determines that a nuisance exists on a property
and the cost of abatement of the nuisance is estimated to exceed $5,000, or the
abatement involves demolition of a building other than a structure accessory to
a residential building, or the abatement substantially diminishes the value of
the property, and except in the case of an emergency provided for in §
98.22, the city shall abate the nuisance by the procedure described below. A
good faith estimate of the abatement costs, not the actual cost calculated
after the abatement is completed, shall be the basis which determines whether
this abatement procedure shall be used.
   (A)   Orders.  The enforcement officer shall serve a written order upon the
owner, occupant and lien holder known to the officer. The order shall contain
the following:
      (1)   A description of the real estate which is sufficient for
identification and which shall include the legal description;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance on the property;
      (3)   A description of the nuisance and the basis upon which it is
declared to be a nuisance;
      (4)   The remedial action required to abate the nuisance;
      (5)   The abatement deadline, to be determined by the enforcement
officer, allowing a reasonable time for the completion of any act required;
      (6)   A statement that if the remedial action is not taken before the
abatement deadline, the matter will be referred to the City Council, who, after
a hearing, may order the city to abate the nuisance and charge all costs
incurred against the real estate as a special assessment to be collected in the
same manner as property taxes.
   (B)   Notice to public. When an order requires, exclusively or as an option,
the demolition of a building, the public shall be put on notice as follows:
      (1)   The owner is required to provide full disclosure of the order to
abate to all occupants, lien holders, all present or subsequent renters, and
any subsequent owners.
      (2)   The enforcement officer shall post a placard in a conspicuous place
which declares the property a “nuisance building” which shall include the
following:
         (a)   Name of the city;
         (b)   The name of the authorized department having jurisdiction;
         (c)   The chapter and section of the ordinance under which it is
issued;
         (d)   A statement declaring the property to be a nuisance condition
and subject to demolition;
         (e)   The date that the placard of nuisance condition is posted;
         (f)   A statement of the penalty for defacing or removal of the
placard;
         (g)   The City Manager shall notify the City Council by sending a copy
of the order to abate to the City Council.
      (3)   The enforcement officer shall notify the City Manager by sending a
copy of the order to abate to the City Manager.
   (C)   Setting hearing date.  If the remedial action is not taken within the
time specified in the written order, the enforcement office will notify the
City Council that substantial abatement is necessary and appropriate. Upon
being notified by the enforcement officer, the City Manager shall, within two
weeks, fix a date for an abatement hearing for the City Council.
   (D)   Notice. Written notice of the time, date, place and subject of the
hearing shall be given as set forth in this division.
      (1)   The city shall immediately notify the enforcement officer.
      (2)   At least ten calendar days prior to the hearing, the enforcement
officer shall notify the owner or his or her duly authorized representative by
personal service of the notice of hearing and all occupants and lien holders
known by certified mail. If, after reasonable effort, service cannot be made,
either of the following methods of notice shall be considered adequate.
         (a)   Confirmed mail service which is either certified mail with
signed receipt returned or first class mail confirmed by written response.
         (b)   Mailing the notice to the last known address posting the notice
on the premises of the subject property.
   (E)   Hearing. At the time of the hearing, the City Council shall hear from
the enforcement officer and any other parties who wish to be heard. After the
hearing, the City Council shall adopt a resolution describing what abatement
action, if any, the council deems appropriate. If the resolution calls for
abatement action, the Council may either order the city to take the abatement
action or fix a time within which the nuisance must be abated and provide that
if corrective action is not taken within the specified time, the city shall
abate the nuisance.
   (F)   Notice of City Council action. The enforcement officer shall serve
copies of the resolution on any of the parties required to be notified in
division (D).
(Am. Ord. 661, passed 9-5-2006)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.22 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Emergency procedure. In cases of emergency, where delay in abatement
required to complete the notice and procedure requirements set forth in §§
98.21 and
98.22, will permit a continuing nuisance to unreasonably endanger public
health, safety or welfare, the City Council may order summary enforcement and
abate the nuisance. To proceed with summary enforcement, the officer shall, in
writing, determine that a public nuisance exists or is being maintained on
premises in the city and that delay in abatement of the nuisance will
unreasonably endanger public health, safety or welfare. The officer shall
notify in writing the occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the
nuisance and of the city's intention to seek summary enforcement. The City
Council shall then determine whether the condition identified is a nuisance
which will unreasonably endanger the public, safety or welfare if there is a
delay in abatement, and may order that the nuisance be immediately abated. If
the nuisance is not then immediately abated, the nuisance shall be abated by
city action.
   (B)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an immediate, imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
(Ord. 661, passed 9-5-2006)
§ 98.23 COLLECTION OF ABATEMENT COSTS.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Manager or other officer shall
prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount
shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Manager.
   (B)   Assessment.  If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on
private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public sidewalks, the
growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled portion of streets,
or unsound or insect-infested trees, the City Manager shall, on or before
September 1 of each year, list the total unpaid charges incurred to abate the
nuisance, along with all the other charges for current services to be assessed
under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, against each
separate lot or parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council
may then spread the charges against the property under that statute and other
pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along
with current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding
ten, as the City Council may determine in each case.
(Ord. 661, passed 9-5-2006)
WEEDS
§ 98.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance.”
§ 98.36 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
§ 98.37 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated
city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance
violation.
      NATIVE VEGETATION. Those indigenous shrubs, wild flowers, grasses and
other plants that have naturally adapted themselves to the climate and soils of
the area but require cultivation and maintenance to remain viable.
      NATIVE VEGETATION PERMIT. A permit issued by the city pursuant to this
subchapter allowing an owner or occupant to cultivate non- noxious native
vegetation on his or her property. A NATIVE VEGETATION PERMIT exempts an owner
or occupant from §
98.38.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a  person having control over the property of another, such as a
right-of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION. Includes but is not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be
limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A- Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sow Thistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Onion, Wild Parsnip, Garlic Mustard, Common Tanzy, Japanese Knotweed,
and any other weeds as defined or designated in M.S. Chapter 18, in particular
§§ 18.77 and 18.79, or Minnesota Rules adopted pursuant thereto;
         (b)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
         (c)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as Berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (d)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers,
or other ornamental plants, growing to a height or length exceeding six inches
as measured from the base at ground level to the tip of each stalk, stem,
blade, or leaf;
         (e)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants.
         (f)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
(Am. Ord. 695, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 98.38 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
    All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting, or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of six inches in height or length as measured from the base at ground
level to the tip of each stalk, stem, blade, or leaf.
(Am. Ord. 695, passed 7-20-2010)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.39 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Manager or designee. If the city makes the complaint, an
employee, officer or Council Member of the city shall file the complaint in all
respects as set out above.
§ 98.40 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the City Manager shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding the
condition. The City Manager, upon concluding that there is a probable belief
that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written notification in
the form of a “Destruction Order” to the property owner or the person occupying
the property as that information is contained within the records of the City
Manager or any other city agency. The notice shall be served in writing by
certified mail. The notice shall provide that within seven regular business
days after the receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be
removed by the property owner or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the City Manager.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the City Manager or his or her designee or
others is deemed filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal
Service.
§ 98.41 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City Council. It is
the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council Members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
§ 98.42 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
“Destruction Order” within seven regular business days and has not filed a
notice within 48 hours to the City Manager of an intent to appeal, the City
Council may employ the services of city employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
§ 98.43 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney’s
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Manager and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for expenses and
costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
§ 98.44 NATIVE VEGETATION PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit. Upon satisfaction and completion of all requirements in this
section, the City Manager or
designee shall issue a native vegetation permit. A native vegetation permit
shall grant the property owner the ability to cultivate on his or her property
and exempt the property owner from the requirements of §
98.38 of the City Code. Native vegetation permits shall be valid for five years
from the date or approval. The City Manager shall not approve a native
vegetation permit for property or property owners with unresolved City Code
violations or administrative citations. The City Manager shall not approve a
native vegetation permit for native vegetation designated as noxious by state
statute or administrative rule as being noxious or detrimental plants.
   (B)   Application. The application for a native vegetation permit, which
shall be provided by the City Manager or designee, shall contain the following:
      (1)   Address, legal description, and statement of intent or purpose in
cultivating native vegetation.
      (2)   Site plan showing lot lines, buildings, and location of proposed
native vegetation.
      (3)   Latin and common names of the species of native vegetation the
property owner plans to cultivate.
      (4)   Maintenance requirements for said species.
      (5)   Name and address of a professional landscaping company which has
been hired to perform maintenance on the native vegetation; or the name,
address, and qualifications of the person(s) who will be responsible for
maintenance of the native vegetation.
      (6)   A maintenance plan, which shall contain the following:
         (a)   Planting diagram showing the location and mature height of all
specimens of native vegetation;
         (b)   Detailed information on the upkeep of each specimen; and
         (c)   Details of any long-term maintenance required for the native
vegetation.
   (C)   Revocation. The City Manager or designee may regularly inspect any
property having a native vegetation permit for compliance with the maintenance
plan on file with the city for the property. If any property is not in
compliance with the maintenance plan, the permittee may be notified and ordered
to bring the property into compliance with the approved permit pursuant to §§
98.40 and
98.41 of the City Code. If the permittee fails to comply, the City Manager or
designee may:
      (1)   Revoke the native vegetation permit;
      (2)   Remove all improperly maintained native vegetation pursuant to §
98.42 of the City Code;
      (3)   Declare the property ineligible for a native vegetation permit,
unless sold, for a period of two years; and
      (4)   Assess the property for all costs associated with inspection of the
property and any removal of improperly maintained native vegetation in
accordance with §
98.43 of the City Code.
   (D)   Penalty. The violation of any provision of this subchapter is a
misdemeanor and the violator shall be fined or penalized not more than the
maximum levels established by the State of Minnesota for misdemeanor offenses.
Each day on which the violation continues is a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 695, passed 7-20-2010)
OPEN BURNING
§ 98.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a “recreational fire” as defined herein. Mobile cooking devices
such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers, and propane or
natural gas devices are not defined as “open burning.”
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than three
feet in height, contained within the border of a “recreational fire site” using
dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the
property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for
recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans, and air quality so  that nuisance, health or safety
hazards will not be created. No more than one recreational fire is allowed on
any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by
non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only an which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a
“recreation fire site” as defined herein. Recreational fire sites shall not be
located closer than 25 feet to any structure.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as starter
fuels and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, “presto logs,”
charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. The term does not include
wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked, or treated
with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreational
fires when cut into three foot lengths.
§ 98.61 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning oils, petro
fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials, or other materials which
produce excessive or noxious smoke such as tires, railroad ties, treated,
painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar paper, insulation, composition
board, sheetrock, wiring, paint or paint fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of hazardous
waste or salvage operations, open burning of solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process or from a service or commercial
establishment or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of any leaves or
grass clippings.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.62 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burn permit, except that a permit is not
required for any fire which is a recreational fire as defined in §
98.60.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.63 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Elimination of fire of health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means.
      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction.
      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other alternative methods are
not practical.
      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on site, diseased or infected
nursery stock, diseased bee hives.
      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non- glued lumber and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical.
   (B)   Fire Training permits can only issued by the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.64 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a form
prescribed the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by the Fire
Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals for reviewing and processing those
applications.
   (B)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee. Permit fees
shall be in the amount established in an ordinance establishing fees and
charges, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.65 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and permit
fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals shall schedule a
preliminary site inspection to locate the proposed burn site, note special
conditions, and set dates and time of permitted burn and review fire safety
considerations.
§ 98.66 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be responsible
for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in effect. Every
open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder or his or her
competent representative. The open burning site shall have available,
appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as set out in the fire
safety plan.
   (B)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the permit
holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be allowed to
smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the permit holder
to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter, available for
inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA
representative or DNR forest officer.
   (C)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation of
all general conditions, special conditions, and the burn event safety plan as
established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including but not limited to fire
suppression and administrative fees.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.67 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   The open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of DNR
forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals.
Reasons for revocation include but are not limited to a fire hazard existing or
developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the permit
being violated during the course of the burn, pollution or nuisance conditions
developing during the course of the burn, or a fire smoldering with no flame
present.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.68 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are not
met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire
Marshals, these officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.
§ 98.69 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or DNR has
officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire conditions or
when the MPCA has declared an Air Quality Alert.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.70 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22 and the Minnesota State Fire Code,
Minn. Rules Chapter 1510, as these statutes and rules may be amended from time
to time, are adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter as if
fully set forth at this point.
CHAPTER 99: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Respond to false alarms
   
99.03   False alarm reports
   
99.04   Audible alarm requirements
   
99.05   Alarms required for certain establishments
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ALARM SYSTEM. An assembly of equipment and devises (or a single device such
as a solid state unit which plugs directly into a one-hundred-ten-volt AC line)
arranged to signal the presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention and to
which public safety personnel are expected to respond.
   AUDIBLE ALARM. A device designed for the detection of unauthorized entry on
premises, and which, when actuated, generates an audible sound on or near the
premises.
   CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Entrance upon or into the property of another, taking the
property of another or damaging the property of another without permission.
CRIMINAL ACTIVITY includes burglary, robbery, assault, theft, damage to
property, or other crimes as defined by state law.
   FALSE ALARM. Any alarm system triggered by some reason other then criminal
activity. It does not  include activation of the alarm by acts of God or by
utility company power outages.
(Ord. 641, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 99.02 RESPOND TO FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   A fee as established by ordinance shall be paid to the city for the
fourth response and each subsequent response by the police department or fire
department within one calendar year to a false alarm.
   (B)   The city may collect such fee by whatever means necessary, including
the institution of a civil action against the person responsible for the
payment of such fee or certifying the fine on the property taxes.
(Ord. 641, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 99.03 FALSE ALARM REPORTS.
   (A)   The chief of police, the fire chief and/or the fire marshal may
require the person in control of the alarm system to submit a written report
after any false alarm. The report shall contain information specified by the
chief
   (B)   The chief of police, the fire chief and/or the fire marshal may excuse
false alarms associated with their respective departments when there is
evidence that they are the result of an effort or order to upgrade, install or
maintain an alarm system or if one or more false alarms result from the same
malfunction within a seven-day period.
(Ord. 641, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 99.04 AUDIBLE ALARM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All audible alarms shall meet the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Every person maintaining an audible alarm shall post a notice
containing the name and telephone number of the persons to be notified to
render repairs or service during any hour of the day or night that the burglar
alarm rings. Such notice shall be posted at the main entrance to such premises
or near the alarm in such a position as to be legible from the ground level
adjacent to the building or kept currently corrected and on file with the
police department and/or the fire marshal’s office.
   (C)   Audible alarms that sound like police or fire sirens are forbidden.
   (D)   Audible alarms shall have an automatic shut- off which will silence
the audible alarm within a period not to exceed 20 minutes and such alarms
shall not sound for more than 20 during any hour.
(Ord. 641, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 99.05 ALARMS REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Due to their susceptibility to criminal attack or fire hazard the following
businesses shall be required to have alarm systems (must be in compliance by
December 31, 2005) that are monitored 24 hours a day at a business that
specializes in receiving the transmission of alarm signals:
   (A)   Establishments that sell or store Class A narcotic drugs.
   (B)   Veterinary clinics or animal hospitals.
   (C)   Medical clinics.
   (D)   Dental clinics.
   (E)   Banks or savings and loan institutions.
   (F)   Funeral Homes.
   (G)   Other such businesses that by their nature create a high
susceptibility to criminal attack or fire hazard as required by the chief of
police or fire.
(Ord. 641, passed 8-19-2003)
CHAPTER 100: USER CHARGE FOR EXCESSIVE SERVICES
Section
   
100.01   Purposes
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   Notice of nuisance
   
100.04   Subsequent nuisance or nuisance-related activity; liability
   
100.05   Cost of city services; annual assessment procedures
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances and abatement thereof, see
Chapter 98
§ 100.01 PURPOSES.
   It is the intent of the City Council by this chapter to impose on the owner
of a building or property in the city the cost for police, code enforcement
service or any other city enforcement services, which are above the normal cost
of providing these services city-wide, if the excess costs are spent to abate a
nuisance which has occurred, or is maintained and permitted, in the building or
on the property. The collection of the costs for such excess services shall be
by assessment against the property on which the nuisance, or activity
constituting the nuisance, occurs, pursuant to the authority in M.S. § 412.221,
Subd. 23, empowering a city to abate nuisances and collect the costs of such
abatement by special assessment. Nothing herein shall prevent the city from
using the authority and procedures in any other provision of the city code or
state law, including but not limited to M.S. § 429.021.
(Ord. 660, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 690, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 100.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the terms defined in this section have
these meanings:
   BUILDING OR PROPERTY. A structure suitable for human shelter, a commercial
structure that is maintained for business activities that involve human
occupation, any portion of the structure, or the real property on which the
structure is located.
   CHIEF. Chief of Police, Fire Chief or his or her designee.
   CITY MANAGER. City Manager of the City of North St. Paul.
   EXCESSIVE POLICE, CODE ENFORCEMENT SERVICE OR CITY ENFORCEMENT SERVICES.
Those services provided at a specific building or property address after three
or more calls for such services for nuisance events have occurred in a prior
one-year time period, and where the owner was notified in writing that
subsequent high levels of police and nuisance calls for service would result in
a fee being charged for excessive consumption of those services, and where the
owner has been provided with 30 days following notice to abate the nuisance
generating the high levels of calls for police service.
   INTERESTED PARTY. Any known lessee or tenant of a building or affected
portion of a building; any known agent of an owner, lessee, or tenant; any
known person holding an unrecorded contract for deed, being a mortgagee or
vendee in physical possession of the building; or any known person who
maintains or permits a nuisance.
   LAST KNOWN ADDRESS.  The address shown on the records of the Ramsey County
Department of Property Taxation or a more recent address known to the Police
Department. In the case of parties not listed in these records, the last known
address shall be that address obtained by the Police Department after a
reasonable search. If no address can be found, such address shall be that of
the building in which the nuisance occurred, or was maintained or permitted.
   NUISANCE.  Nuisance means one or more of the following behavioral incidents
occurring or committed within a building or on a property:
      (1)   Prostitution or prostitution-related activity committed within the
building;
      (2)   Gambling or gambling-related activity committed within the
building;
      (3)   Maintaining a public nuisance in violation of M.S. § 609.74(1) or
(3);
      (4)   Permitting a public nuisance in violation of M.S. § 609.745;
      (5)   Unlawful sale, possession, storage, delivery, giving, manufacture,
cultivation, or use of controlled substances committed within the building;
      (6)   Unlicensed sales of alcoholic beverages committed within the
building in violation of M.S. § 340A.401;
      (7)   Unlawful sales or gifts of alcoholic beverages by an unlicensed
person committed within the building in violation of M.S. § 340A.503, Subd. 2
(1), or unlawful consumption or possession within the building by persons under
the age of 21 years in violation of M.S. § 340A.503, Subd. 1 and 3;
      (8)   Unlawful use or possession of a firearm in violation of M.S.
§ 609.66, Subd. 1a, 609.67, or 624.713, committed within the building;
      (9)   Violation by a commercial enterprise of local or state business
regulations, ordinances, or statutes prohibiting the maintenance of a public
nuisance as defined in M.S. § 609.74 or the control of a public nuisance as
defined in M.S. § 609.745;
      (10)   Actions which constitute a violation of M.S. § 609.72, relating to
disorderly conduct; or
      (11)   Actions which constitute a public nuisance under the city code,
state, or federal laws.
   OWNER. The person or persons in whose name or names the building is recorded
with the Ramsey County Department of Property Taxation.
(Ord. 660, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 690, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 100.03 NOTICE OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   If the City Manager or designee has reason to believe that a nuisance
has occurred, or is maintained or permitted in a building, or on a property,
and intends to seek reimbursement for city services rendered in the future in
connection with such nuisance or activities creating a nuisance, the City
Manager or designee shall provide a written notice as required in this section
to the owner and each interested party known.
   (B)   The written notice shall:
      (1)   State that a nuisance as defined in this chapter has occurred, or
is maintained or permitted in the building, and specify the kind or kinds of
nuisance which has occurred, or is being maintained or permitted;
      (2)   Summarize the evidence that a nuisance has occurred, or is
maintained or permitted in the building, including the date or dates on which
nuisance-related activities have occurred or were maintained or permitted,
however, that one or more reports can be used to satisfy this requirement;
      (3)   Inform the recipient of the notice that (i) he or she has 30 days
to abate the conduct constituting the nuisance, and to take steps to make sure
that actions constituting a nuisance will not re-occur, (ii) if, after 30 days
from the date of service of the notice, the nuisance re-occurs, or actions or
conduct constituting a nuisance take place, the city may in its discretion
impose the costs of police services in abating or attempting to abate such
nuisance or nuisance-related activities, and (iii) the costs will be collected
by assessment against the property and/or building as set forth in §
100.01 above.
   (C)   The written notice shall be served in person, or by certified or
registered mail on the owner and all interested parties known to the City
Manager or designee, at the last known address for each such person or persons.
(Ord. 660, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 690, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 100.04 SUBSEQUENT NUISANCE OR NUISANCE-RELATED ACTIVITY; LIABILITY.
   (A)   If, within the period commencing 31 days after a written notice is
served pursuant to this chapter and continuing for one year thereafter, a
nuisance occurs or is maintained or permitted in the building or on the
property, and police and/or code enforcement services are rendered to abate or
attempt to abate such nuisance, the costs of providing such services within
that one year shall be assessed against the building and collected as provided
in this chapter.
   (B)   The costs for providing excess police and/or code enforcement services
shall include but not be limited to the gross salaries including all fringe
benefits which are paid by the city to police and code enforcement officers
while responding to or dealing with the nuisance or nuisance-related
activities, the prorata cost of all equipment including vehicles, the prorata
cost of police dogs assisting the officers, the cost of repairs to any city
equipment and property damaged in responding to such nuisance or nuisance-
related activities, and the cost of any medical treatment to injured police
officers.
   (C)   The city reserves its rights to seek reimbursement for costs and
damages not recovered by assessment against the building through other legal
remedies or procedures.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require or prevent the
arrest and/or citation of any person or persons for violations of federal,
state or local laws or ordinances.
(Ord. 660, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 690, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 100.05 COST OF CITY SERVICES; ANNUAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Each appropriate city department shall maintain a record of the costs
per visit in response to nuisance activities. The cost of providing such
services is determined by the gross salaries including all fringes and benefits
which are paid by the city for law enforcement staff, while responding to or
dealing with these nuisance activities, the prorata cost of all materials and
equipment including vehicles, the cost of repairs to any city equipment and
property damaged in responding to such nuisance activities, and the cost of any
medical treatment of any injured law enforcement officers. These costs shall be
recalculated from time to time. In addition to maintaining a record of the cost
per visit, the department shall maintain a record on individual properties of
the cost of such services attributable to nuisances occurring after written
notice has been sent to the owner and interested persons. Each department shall
report such information to the Finance Director or his or her designee.
   (B)   Resolution approving total, setting date of public hearing. On or
before September 1 of each year, the City Manager or designee shall notify the
City Council of the total cost of such excessive police and code enforcement
services performed during the previous year and the portion of such costs to be
assessed against each lot and parcel of property that utilized excessive
services in response to nuisance activity. Upon receipt thereof, the Council
shall by resolution fix a date for public hearing at which time the Council
shall consider adopting and levying the service charges. The date of public
hearing shall be at least 20 days after adoption of that resolution.
   (C)   Notice of Council hearing. Following the adoption of the resolution
provided in division (B) above, the Finance Director shall publish a notice of
the hearing in a local newspaper of the city at least five days prior to the
public hearing. The notice shall state the date, time and place of hearing, the
purpose of the hearing, identify the services provided and the property to be
assessed a service charge therefor, and shall state the proposed rates of
service charges to be considered by the Council.
   (D)   Notice to owner and interested parties. At least ten days before the
hearing, notice thereof shall be mailed by first class mail to the owner and
any interested party known to the city, at his or her last known address. Such
notice shall also inform the recipient of the notice (i) of the procedures he
or she must follow under the charter in order to appeal the assessments to the
district court, and (ii) of the provisions of M.S. §§ 435.193 to 435.195 and
the existence of any deferment procedure established pursuant thereto.
   (E)   Public hearing; adoption of assessment roll. On the date of public
hearing, the Council shall meet to consider the adoption of the proposed
service charges. The Council shall hear all interested parties concerning the
proposed charges. At such meeting or at any adjournment thereof, the Council
may amend the proposed service charges, and shall, by resolution, adopt the
service charges as a special assessment against the properties which utilized
excessive police services in response to nuisance activities. Special
assessments levied hereunder shall be payable in a single installment.
   (F)   Certification to county for collection with taxes. After adoption by
resolution of the service charges and assessment rates therefor, and no later
than November 15, the City Clerk shall transmit a certified copy of said
resolution to the County Department of Property Taxation to be extended on the
proper tax list of the county and collected the following year along with
current taxes.
   (G)   Appeal. Within 20 days after adoption of the resolution adopting the
service charges, any person aggrieved may appeal to the district court in the
manner set forth in M.S. Chapter 429.
(Ord. 660, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 690, passed 4-6-2010)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS
   
111.   AMUSEMENTS
   
112.   BINGO AND CHARITABLE GAMBLING
   
113.   MASSAGE ENTERPRISE
   
114.   AUCTIONS AND AUCTIONEERS
   
115.   TAXICABS
   
116.   COURTESY BENCHES
   
117.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
118.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS
   
119.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
   
120.   ADULT USE
      
APPENDIX:   RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FINDINGS OF THE REPORT OF THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL’S WORKING GROUP ON THE REGULATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   
121.   GAS STATIONS
   
122.   SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS
   
123.   BLOCK PARTIES
   
124.   PAWN SHOPS
   
125.   BODY ART ENTERPRISE
   
126.   CANNABIS AND LOWER- POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES BUSINESSES
   
127.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Licensing Provisions
   
110.01   Licenses and permits
   
110.02   Fees
   
110.03   Duration of license
   
110.04   Transfers
   
110.05   Inspection
   
110.06   Duties of licensee
   
110.07   Suspension and revocation
   
110.08   Hours
   
110.09   Condition of license
   
110.10   Appeal from actions of City Manager
   
110.11   Violations
General Regulations
   
110.25   (Reserved)
   
110.26   Therapeutic massage
   
110.27   Trenching license
   
110.28   General contractors
   
110.29   State contractor’s license required
   
110.30   Administrative fees for tax exempt bonds
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   General rule. Except as otherwise provided in this code, all licenses
and permits granted by the city except liquor licenses shall be governed by the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Acts prohibited. No person shall conduct any activity or use any
property for which a license or permit is required by law or this code without
a currently valid license or permit for such activity or use.
   (C)   Application. Every application for a license or permit shall be made
to the City Manager on a form provided. It shall be accompanied by payment to
the City Manager of the prescribed fee. If, after investigation, the City
Manager is satisfied that all requirements of law and this code have been met,
the City Manager shall be presented with the application for approval, if the
license or permit does not require Council approval.
   (D)   Bond. Where a bond is required for any license or permit, the bond
shall be a corporate surety bond executed on a form approved by the Attorney
and shall be filed with the City Manager before the license or permit is
issued. Except where otherwise provided, the bond amount shall be as set by
Council resolution, conditioned that the licensee or permittee shall comply
with the applicable ordinance and laws pertaining to the licensed or permitted
activity and that the licensee or permittee will indemnify the city and save it
harmless from all loss or damage by reason of inadequate work performed or by
reason of accident caused by the negligence of the licensee or permittee,
agents or employees.
   (E)   Insurance.
      (1)   When a licensee or permittee is required to have in force a policy
of insurance, the policy shall be approved as to substance and form by the
Attorney. The policy shall provide that it is non-cancellable without 15 days
notice to the city, and the coverage shall be for the term of the license or
permit. Satisfactory evidence or coverage by insurance shall be filed with the
City Manager before the license or permit is issued. Each license or permit
shall terminate upon termination of the required insurance coverage.
      (2)   The amount of insurance shall be set by Council ordinance.
   (F)   City license holders may be subject to criminal history background
checks.
(`89 Code, § 85.010) (Am. Ord. 680, passed 6-9-09)
Cross-reference:
   Criminal history background checks, see §§ 60.01 et seq.
§ 110.02 FEES.
   (A)   A license and permit fee schedule is available in the office of the
City Manager.
   (B)   The City Council shall establish a fee schedule for the various
permits, licenses and services provided by the city. The schedule shall be
reviewed by the City Manager from time to time to assure its appropriateness.
In doing so, the City Manager shall consider the cost of labor and materials in
providing the license, permit or service and any other factors deemed
appropriate. It shall be the intent to recover all costs when establishing the
fee.
§ 110.03 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise specified, a license shall be valid for a year or the part
of the year for which it is issued and shall expire on December 31.
(`89 Code, § 85.030)
§ 110.04 TRANSFERS.
   No license issued under this code may be transferred. Where a license
relates to specific premises, the license shall not be changed to another
location without approval of the Manager or Council.
(`89 Code, § 85.040)
§ 110.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Authorized personnel. Any city official or employee having a duty to
perform with reference to a license under this code and any police officer may
inspect and examine any licensee, business or premises to enforce compliance
with this code.
   (B)   Search warrants. If the licensee objects to the inspection of the
licensed premises, the city official or employee charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this code shall procure a valid search warrant
before conducting the inspection.
(`89 Code, § 85.050)
§ 110.06 DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   Every licensee and permittee:
   (A)   Shall have the duties set forth in this section;
   (B)   Shall permit at reasonable times inspections of the place of business
by authorized officers or employees;
   (C)   Shall comply with laws, ordinances and regulations applicable to the
licensed business, activity or property;
   (D)   Shall display the license or other insignia given as evidence of the
license in a conspicuous place on the premises, vehicle or device to which the
license relates. If the license is not so related, the license shall be carried
on the licensee’s person;
   (E)   The licensee shall not lend or give to any other person the license or
license insignia.
(`89 Code, § 85.060)
§ 110.07 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The City Manager may suspend for a period not exceeding 30 days, and the
Council may suspend, revoke or impose a civil fine of not more than $2,000 on
any license or permit for violation of any provision of law, ordinance or
regulation applicable to the licensed or permitted activity or property. Except
where mandatory revocation is provided by state law without notice and hearing
and except where suspension may be made without a hearing, the holder of the
license or permit shall be granted a hearing under M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69 of
the Administrative Procedures Act, as it may be amended from time to time.
(`89 Code, § 85.070)
§ 110.08 HOURS.
   Unless otherwise allowed by the Council resolution, those licensees which
allow customers to come upon their premises shall be closed to the public
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. every day.
(`89 Code, § 85.080)
§ 110.09 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The following activities shall be grounds for revocation of a license:
   (A)   Allowing intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor to be consumed by the public
on the licensed premises, except where the license holder has a valid
intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor license issued by the city;
   (B)   Allows gambling, as defined by state law, by the public on the
licensed premises, except where the license holder has a valid gambling license
issued by the city or State of Minnesota and gambling being done does not
violate the gambling license;
   (C)   Allows controlled substances or drug paraphernalia, both as defined by
state law, to be on the licensed premises whether accessible to the public or
not;
   (D)   Knowingly allows a violation of any laws or ordinance of the city,
county, state or federal governments;
   (E)   Fails to comply with the State Fire Code and Life Safety Code of the
State of Minnesota.
(`89 Code, § 85.090)
§ 110.10 APPEAL FROM ACTIONS OF CITY MANAGER.
   All actions of the City Manager may be appealed to the Council by filing
with the City Manager a notice of appeal and paying a fee to be set by Council
ordinance. All appeals shall be heard within 30 days.
(`89 Code, § 85.110)
§ 110.11 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to criminal sanctions, the Council by resolution may establish
civil sanctions for violations of the licensing sections of this code.
(`89 Code, § 85.100)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 110.25 RESERVED.
§ 110.26 THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meaning given herein.
      MASSAGE ENTERPRISE. Any establishment or place providing to the public at
large therapeutic massage services, other than a hospital, sanatorium, rest
home, nursing home, boarding home or other institution for the hospitalization
and care of human beings duly licensed under the provisions of Minnesota
Statute.
      MASSAGE SERVICE. A business offering or providing massages to others
where a fee is charged and whether or not the massage services are rendered at
the licensed location.
      MASSAGE THERAPIST. A person who practices therapeutic massage. Every
applicant for a massage therapist license under this division shall furnish a
certified copy of the applicant’s diploma or certificate of graduation from an
accredited institution.
      THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE. The method of treating the superficial parts of the
human body by rubbing, pressing, stroking, kneading, tapping, pounding,
vibrating or stimulating with the hands or any instrument for the exclusive
purposes of relaxing, physical fitness or beautification and for no other
purposes.
   (B)   License required. No person or business shall engage in the business
of therapeutic massage in the city without a license.
   (C)   License fee. The license fee shall be set by Council ordinance.
   (D)   Educational requirements. Persons applying for a license under this
chapter shall provide, in addition to the general application described later
in this chapter, a copy of a diploma or certificate of graduation from a school
approved by the state or local government agency having jurisdiction over the
school. The minimum acceptable level of training shall be 150 practitioner
hours. Additionally, each practitioner must be currently certified in the
administration of Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR).
   (E)   M.S. Chapter 146A. Each business as an entity and each practitioner
individually shall additionally comply with all of the requirements and
regulations established by M.S. Chapter 146A. This chapter establishes the
State Office of Unlicensed Complementary and Alternative Health Care Practice
and establishes additional regulations and requirements for businesses governed
by this section.
   (F)   Appointment record requirement. All licensees shall be responsible for
keeping appointment records of all off-site massage/bodywork services provided.
The records shall be sequential and shall include the name of the therapist
conducting the service, the name and signature of the client, the address where
the service was provided, and the date and time of the service. Licensed
therapists shall have appointment records in possession at all off-site
locations. Appointment records shall be kept for a period of 12 months from the
date of service.
   (G)   Current license. The applicant shall state whether they hold a current
massage therapy license from any other governmental unit.
   (H)   License denied. The applicant shall state whether they have previously
been denied a massage therapy license from any other governmental unit.
(Ord. 785, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.27 TRENCHING LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall engage in the business of installing
or constructing sewage disposal and water distribution systems in the city
without a license. Contractors who hold a valid Minnesota State Plumbing
License are not required to get a city-issued trenching license.
(`89 Code, § 100.010)
   (B)   License fee. The license fee shall be set by City Council ordinance.
(`89 Code, § 100.020)
   (C)   Insurance required. No license granted shall take effect until the
applicant file with the City Manager public liability and property damage
insurance policies.
(`89 Code, § 100.030)
   (D)   Pipelayer certification. Applicant shall hold a pipelayer’s
certification.
(`89 Code, § 100.050)
(Ord. 845, passed 7-15-2025)
§ 110.28 GENERAL CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   License required. 
      (1)   A city license shall be required for any person engaged in the
following businesses or work:
         (a)   Tree trimmers.
      (2)   Provided, however, that any person who holds or is required to hold
a license under this chapter need not obtain a license under this chapter to
perform work which may be done under the authority of the license required by
this chapter.
(`89 Code, § 101.010)
   (B)   Government units and manufacturers. Government units shall not be
required to obtain licenses for work upon or in connection with their own
property. Manufacturers shall not be required to obtain a license for work done
to equipment as part of the manufacturing process, except as may otherwise be
provided by this code.
(`89 Code, § 101.020)
   (C)   License fee. The annual license fee shall be set by City Council
ordinance.
(`89 Code, § 101.030)
   (D)   Insurance required. Each applicant shall file with the City Manager a
certificate of insurance evidencing the holding of public liability insurance.
(`89 Code, § 101.040)
   (E)   Property owners. Property owners doing their own work on their own
property need not be licensed under this chapter. This does not relieve them of
other licenses or permits required by the city. Persons licensed by the State
of Minnesota need only register with the city their state license when doing
residential work in the city.
(`89 Code, § 101.050)
(Ord. 845, passed 7-15-2025)
§ 110.29 STATE CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No residential building contractor, residential remodeler, or other person
who is required to be licensed by the state under the provisions of M.S. §§
326.83 to 326.991, as they may be amended from time to time, and no person
employing a residential contractor, who is required to be licensed, shall be
issued a building, zoning or land use permit unless that contractor is
licensed. Any person applying for a permit who is required to have a state
license but who does not have a state license shall be reported to the State
Commissioner of Commerce who may begin an action against the person.
§ 110.30 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES FOR TAX EXEMPT BONDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The city has the authority to issue tax-exempt revenue bonds
on behalf of certain types of development. This enables the development to
secure favorable financing, and promotes housing, commercial and industrial
development. The city does incur some cost in issuing these bonds, in terms of
staff time and legal expenses in reviewing the proposal. This cost should not
be born by the general taxpayers of the city. An administrative fee shall be
charged to the development requesting the tax-exempt revenue bonds to cover
these costs. The fee shall be on a sliding scale to address the potential cost
to the issue in very large bond requests.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   In consideration of the city making tax- exempt revenue bond
financing available for private development, and to assist the city in
defraying its present and future administrative expenses, the applicant shall,
subject to applicable federal arbitrage regulations, pay to the city an
administrative fee of 1% of the first $10 million in requested financing, with
a ½% fee being charged on the remaining issue. No annual administrative fee
shall be charged.
      (2)   The city shall review these fees from time to time and may adjust
the fees by ordinance.
(Ord. 640, passed 8-19-2003)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Motion picture and video theaters
   
111.02   Amusement parks, shows and circuses
   
111.03   Christmas trees
§ 111.01 MOTION PICTURE AND VIDEO THEATERS.
   (A)   License required; exception. No person shall show or exhibit any
motion picture or video for which pay or compensation of any kind is required
or received without a license; provided, however, that clubs, churches, schools
and fraternal, religious and veterans’ organizations may show motion pictures
and videos as a part of a program rather than as a regular business without a
license.
(`89 Code, § 88.010)
   (B)   License fee. The license fee shall be set by Council ordinance. No
license shall be granted until the fee is paid.
(`89 Code, § 88.020)
   (C)   Inspection of facilities. No person shall show a motion picture or
video in any room or building in the city to which the public is admitted upon
payment of a fee or other compensation, until such room or building and
projector and all appliances used in connection therewith shall have been
inspected and approved by a representative of the city. The city shall at all
times have the right to set forth reasonable requirements necessary and proper
for the safety of the public in connection with the operation of motion
pictures or videos.
(`89 Code, § 88.030)
   (D)   Indecent pictures. No person shall exhibit, portray or display in any
place in the city by means of pictures, motion pictures or otherwise, any
pictures, scene, reproduction or representation of obscene materials. The
Manager, designee or the police officers of the city shall at all times have
free access to all theaters and exhibitions or displays to insure compliance
with this section. Obscene materials are those defined in M.S. § 617.241, as it
may be amended from time to time.
(`89 Code, § 88.040)
§ 111.02 AMUSEMENT PARKS, SHOWS AND CIRCUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms and
words shall have the meaning given herein.
      AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any mechanical device designed and operated for the
amusement, recreation or entertainment of the public, and for which a charge is
made for the use thereof, such as, but not limited to, any self- propelled or
mechanically or electrically operated vehicle, cart, auto, horse, boat,
airplane or equipment of similar design which may or may not be placed on a
stationary platform, and which devices provide an up and down, rocking,
circular or free running motion.
      AMUSEMENT PARK. Any place, premises or park where amusement devices are
gathered together. This shall also mean and include live animal rides such as
pony rides and horse rides, golf driving tees, practice putting greens,
miniature golf courses and all temporary installations usually referred to a
carnivals.
      SHOW. A circus, wild west show, menagerie, caravan of animals, field
game, public show, performance, entertainment, exhibition oramusement of any
kind or description not otherwise defined herein or any combination thereof
which is conducted in the open air, under a tent or in any other place not
licensed as a theater or amusement hall, admission to which is required or
which is conducted for gain. Provided, however, that the term SHOW shall not
mean and include entertainment given by any public or private school; lecture
on historical, literary or scientific subjects; amateur field games or
contests; or fairs, concerts or exhibitions of painting or statuary held by
residents of the city for the exclusive benefit of any benevolent, religious or
charitable object in the city.
      PERMANENT OPERATION. Any business conducted at the same location for more
than 30 days in any calendar year.
      TEMPORARY OPERATION. Any business conducted at the same location for 30
days or less in any calendar year.
(`89 Code, § 91.010)
   (B)   License required. No person shall operate an amusement park, amusement
device or show within the city without a license or permit. A license is
required for a permanent operation and a permit for a temporary operation.
(`89 Code, § 91.020)
   (C)   License and permit fees. The license fee for the permanent operation
of an amusement park or amusement device, for the temporary operation of an
amusement park or amusement device or for the temporary or permanent operation
of a show shall be such amounts as the Council shall deem reasonable and
proper, taking into consideration the size and duration of the shows, to be set
by resolution.
(`89 Code, § 91.030)
   (D)   Minor ineligible for license. No person under 18 years of age shall be
granted a license or permit.
(`89 Code, § 91.040)
   (E)   Carnivals prohibited on streets. No license or permit shall be granted
to any person to hold what is commonly known as a carnival or fair on any
street or alley of the city.
(`89 Code, § 91.050)
   (F)   Vulgar shows prohibited. No person shall operate a show and no license
shall be issued for the operation of any show which is obscene, as defined by
M.S. § 617.241, as it may be amended from time to time.
(`89 Code, § 91.060)
   (G)   Insurance required. Each license or permit holder shall obtain an
insurance policy naming the applicant and the city as insureds, providing
liability for bodily injury in the amount to be set by Council resolution.
(`89 Code, § 91.070) (Am. Ord. 723, passed 5-21-13)
§ 111.03 CHRISTMAS TREES.
   (A)   License required. No person shall sell Christmas trees or associated
items in the city without a license.
(`89 Code, § 94.010)
   (B)   License fee. The license fee shall be set by Council ordinance.
(`89 Code, § 94.020)
   (C)   Hours of operation and conduct of the business requirements may change
from year to year. Applicant will be informed at time of request for permit of
the expected hours of operation and conduct of the business.
CHAPTER 112: BINGO AND CHARITABLE GAMBLING
Section
   
112.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
112.02   Purpose
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Applicability
   
112.05   Lawful gambling permitted
   
112.06   Premises used for gambling
   
112.07   Number of licenses on each premises
   
112.08   Application and local approval of premises permits
   
112.09   Temporary local permits
   
112.10   Revocation and suspension of local permit
   
112.11   Designated trade area
   
112.12   Records and reporting
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 349, as they may be amended from time to
time, with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
provisions relating to sales, and all other matters pertaining to lawful
gambling are hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this chapter as
if set out in full. It is the intention of the Council that all future
amendments of M.S. Chapter 349 are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as
if they had been in existence at the time this chapter was adopted.
(Ord. 801 passed 10-5-2021)
§ 112.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the City
of North Saint Paul, to prevent its commercialization, to ensure the integrity
of operations, and to provide for the use of net profits only for lawful
purposes.
(Ord. 801, passed 10-5-2021)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 349.12 as it may be
amended from time to time, for the purpose of this chapter the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   LICENSED ORGANIZATION. An organization licensed by the Board.
   TRADE AREA. The area contained within the municipal boundaries of North St.
Paul, Oakdale, Maplewood and all other areas within the ISD 622 boundary.
(Ord. 686, passed, 11-17-2009; Am. Ord. 801, passed 10-5-2021)
§ 112.04 APPLICABILITY.
This chapter shall be construed to regulate all forms of lawful gambling within
the city except bingo conducted within a nursing home or a senior citizen
housing project or by a senior citizen organization if the prizes for a single
bingo game do not exceed $10, total prizes awarded at a single bingo occasion
do not exceed $200, only members of the organization, residents of the nursing
home or housing project, and their guests, are allowed to play in a bingo game,
no compensation is paid for any persons who conduct the bingo, and a manager is
appointed to supervise the bingo.
(Ord. 801, passed 10-5-2021)
§ 112.05 LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED.
   Lawful gambling is permitted within the city provided it is conducted in
accordance with M.S. §§ 609.75 through 609.763, as they may be amended from
time to time; M.S. §§ 349.11 through 347.23, as they may be amended from time
to time; and this chapter.
(Ord. 801, passed 10-5-2021)
§ 112.06 PREMISES USED FOR GAMBLING.
   The only premises that may be used for lawful gambling shall be on sale
licensed intoxicating liquor establishments operating as a permitted use, or as
expressly authorized in a conditional or interim use permit, or religious,
educational or non-profit organizations where they own their own premises or
have rented the premises for at least three years.
(Ord. 801, passed 10-5-2021)
§ 112.07 NUMBER OF LICENSES ON EACH PREMISES.
   There shall only be one licensed organization leasing part of a premises at
any one time, except for premises owned by a congressionally charted veterans'
organization. Auxiliary organizations may also lease part of the veterans'
premises where such auxiliary organizations are also nationally chartered.
(Ord. 801, passed 10-5-2021)
§ 112.08 APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit from the Board
shall annually file with the City Clerk an executed, complete duplicate
application, as will be filed with the Board.
   (B)   The Council may deny an application for issuance or renewal of a
premises permit if the premises are ineligible for gambling under state law or
the City Code, or if the premises are not in compliance with the Minnesota Fire
Code.
(Ord. 801, passed 10-5-2021; Am. Ord. 841, passed 6-3-2025; Am. Ord. 843,
passed 8-19-2025)
§ 112.09 TEMPORARY LOCAL PERMITS.
   (A)   No organization shall conduct lawful gambling excluded or exempted
from state licensure requirements by M.S. § 349.166, as it may be amended from
time to time, without a valid temporary local permit, except as stated in §
112.04 of this chapter. The organization may be subject to a background check
conducted by the city Police Department at no cost to the applicant.
   (B)   Applications for issuance or renewal of a temporary local permit shall
be on a form prescribed by the city. The application shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the organization requesting the permit.
      (2)   Name and address of the officers and person accounting for
receipts, expenses, and profits for the event.
      (3)   Dates of gambling occasion for which permit is requested. Each
temporary local permit is valid only for a single occasion of not more than
three consecutive days.
      (4)   Address of premises where event will occur.
      (5)   Copy of rental or leasing arrangement, if any, connected with the
event, including rent to be charged to the organization.
      (6)   Estimated value of prizes to be awarded.
      (7)   The permit fee as set by the Council, except that no permittee
shall be charged for more than four permit days for events occurring in a
single calendar year.
   (C)   The Council may deny an application for issuance or renewal of a
premises permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule, or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last five years.
      (2)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
      (3)   Failure to meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Failure to pay any required fee or cost.
      (5)   No permittee may conduct lawful gambling on more than five days in
a single calendar year.
   (D)   Local permits shall be valid only for the dates and times specified in
the application, unless earlier suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 801, passed 10-5-2021; Am. Ord. 843, passed 8-19-2025)
§ 112.10 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LOCAL PERMIT.
   (A)   A local permit may be revoked or temporarily suspended for a violation
by the gambling organization of any state statute, state rule, or city
ordinance relating to gambling.
   (B)   The City Manager may suspend a permit or license under this chapter
for a period not exceeding 30 days, and the Council may suspend, revoke or
decline to renew any license or permit for violation of any provision of law,
ordinance or regulation applicable to the licensed or permitted activity or
property. Except where mandatory revocation is provided by state law without
notice and hearing and except where suspension may be made without a hearing,
the holder of the license or permit shall be granted a hearing under M.S. §§
14.57 through 14.69 of the Administrative Procedures Act, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 801, passed 10-5-2021)
§ 112.11 DESIGNATED TRADE AREA.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct gambling within the city shall
expend at least 50% of its lawful purpose expenditures on lawful purposes
conducted within the city's trade area.
   (B)   This section applies only to lawful purpose expenditures of gross
profits derived from gambling conducted at a premises within the city's
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 801, passed 10-5-2021)
§ 112.12 RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Upon request of the city, organizations conducting lawful gambling
shall file with the City Clerk one copy of all records and reports required to
be filed with the Board, pursuant to M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended
from time to time, and rules adopted pursuant thereto, as they may be amended
from time to time. The records and reports shall be filed with the city within
a reasonable time of the request.
   (B)   Upon request of the city, organizations licensed by the Board shall
file a report with the city proving compliance with the trade area spending
requirements imposed by §
112.11. Such report shall be made on a form prescribed by the city.
(Ord. 801, passed 10-5-2021)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a
term not to exceed 90 days, or both. In addition, violations shall be reported
to the Board and recommendation shall be made for suspension, revocation, or
cancellation of an organization's license.
(Ord. 686, passed 11-17-2009; Am. Ord. 801, passed 10-5-2021)
CHAPTER 113: MASSAGE ENTERPRISE
Section
   
113.01   Massage enterprise
   
113.02   Exceptions
§ 113.01 MASSAGE ENTERPRISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, engage in, or carry on,
within the city, any type of massage services to the public for consideration.
§ 113.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   A massage enterprise or therapist may exist for the following persons and
places:
   (A)   Persons duly licensed by this state to practice medicine, surgery,
osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy, or podiatry, provided the massage
is administered in the regular course of the medical business and not provided
as part of a separate and distinct massage business.
   (B)   Persons duly licensed by this stated as beauty culturists or barbers,
provided such persons do not hold themselves out as giving massage treatments
and provided the massage by beauty culturists is limited to the head, hand,
neck and feet and the massage by barbers is limited to the head and neck.
   (C)   Persons working solely under the direction and control of a person
duly licensed by this state to practice medicine, surgery, osteopathy,
chiropractic, physical therapy, or podiatry.
   (D)   Places duly licensed or operating as a hospital, nursing home,
hospice, sanitarium, or group home established for the hospitalization or care
of human beings.
   (E)   Persons or places duly licensed according to this chapter to practice
therapeutic massage.
   (F)   Students of an accredited institution who are performing massage
services in the course of a clinical component of an accredited program of
study, provided that the students are performing the massage services at the
location of the accredited institution and provided the students are identified
to the public as students of massage therapy. Students of an accredited
institution who are performing massage services at clinics or other facilities
located outside of the accredited institution must have at least 150 hours of
certified therapeutic massage training at the accredited institution prior to
performing the therapy outside of the institution and must be identified to the
public as a student of massage therapy.
(Am. Ord. 785, passed 6-18-2019)
CHAPTER 114: AUCTIONS AND AUCTIONEERS
Section
   
114.01   Definition
   
114.02   Licenses required; exception
   
114.03   Building owners and occupiers
§ 114.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, AUCTIONEER means any person, who, either as
principal or agent, shall engage in the occupation or profession of conducting
sales at auction for others.
(`89 Code, § 87.010)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall conduct an auction sale in the city, act as an auctioneer at
such auction or engage in the profession of auctioneer in the city without a
license; provided, however, that no license shall be necessary to conduct a
judicial sale, a sale by any executor, administrator or guardian, a sale by a
public officer in the manner prescribed by law or a sale pursuant to statute to
satisfy any lien upon the property sold. An auctioneer who intends to conduct
an auction in the city shall submit to the Manager proof of licensure by the
county and compliance with the bond requirements of state law at least 14 days
before the date of the auction.
(`89 Code, § 87.020)
§ 114.03 BUILDING OWNERS AND OCCUPIERS.
   No person occupying or having control of any building shall knowingly permit
the sale of property at public auction in such building or in any apartment or
yard appertaining thereto contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(`89 Code, § 87.030)
CHAPTER 115: TAXICABS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   License required; exception
   
115.03   Persons qualified to be licensed
   
115.04   Application
   
115.05   License fee
   
115.06   License period
   
115.07   Inspection of taxicabs
   
115.08   Granting
   
115.09   Transfer of license
   
115.10   Insurance policies
   
115.11   Taxicab tags and signs
   
115.12   Taxicab drivers
   
115.13   Taxicab stands
   
115.14   Revocation
   
115.15   Appeal to Council
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. Any person owning or having control of the use of one or more
taxicabs used for hire upon the streets or engaged in the business or operating
a taxicab within the city.
   STREET. Any street, alley, avenue, court, bridge, lane or public place in
the city.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle engaged in the carrying of persons for hire,
whether over a fixed route or not, and whether the same be operated from a
street stand or subject to calls from a garage or otherwise operated for hire;
but the term shall not include vehicles subject to control and regulation by
the State of Minnesota or vehicles regularly used by undertakers in carrying on
their business.
   TAXICAB DRIVER. Any person who drives a taxicab, whether such person be the
owner of such taxicab or be employed by a taxicab owner or operator.
   TAXICAB STAND. Any place along the curb or street or elsewhere which is
exclusively reserved by the city for the use of taxicabs.
(`89 Code, § 123.010)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   No operator shall operate a taxicab within the city limits without first
having obtained a taxicab license therefore under the provisions of this
chapter. However, any taxicab licensed to operate in any other municipality in
this state may carry passengers from said other place to any point within the
city and may freely enter, use and travel upon the streets thereof for that
purpose without the owner or driver of said taxicab obtaining a license, so
long as said owner or driver does not solicit or accept passengers within the
city or otherwise operate therein.
(`89 Code, § 123.020)
§ 115.03 PERSONS QUALIFIED TO BE LICENSED.
   Each applicant for a license under this chapter must be 18 years of age. If
the applicant is a partnership or corporation, it must be qualified to operate
taxicabs and carry on business under the laws of the State of Minnesota.
(`89 Code, § 123.030)
§ 115.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each applicant for a license shall apply to the City Manager upon a
form provided by the city. The form shall state the following information for
each vehicle to be licensed: the full name and address of the legal owner; the
class and passenger-carrying capacity of the vehicle; the length of time the
vehicle has been in use; the make; the engine number, serial number and state
license number; whether the vehicle is mortgaged and if so the name of the
mortgagee and the amount of the mortgage; whether the vehicle is leased,
licensed or under any form of contract permitting its use by other than the
legal owner; and who will collect the revenues from and pay the expenses of
operation of the taxicab.
   (B)   An application by a natural person shall be signed by that individual.
An application by a partnership shall be signed by one of the partners, and an
application by a corporation shall be signed by an officer of the corporation.
(`89 Code, § 123.040)
§ 115.05 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee for a taxicab license shall be as set by Council ordinance.
Each applicant for a license shall deposit such sums as the Council shall
determine at the time of filing of the application, which amount shall be
returned to the applicant if the application is denied. Any applicant who
applies for the transfer of an existing license shall pay a pro rata fee for
the time from the date of the application until the date the license shall
expire.
(`89 Code, § 123.050)
§ 115.06 LICENSE PERIOD.
   Each license issued under this chapter shall expire the July 1 next
following issuance.
(`89 Code, § 123.060)
§ 115.07 INSPECTION OF TAXICABS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or some other employee of the city shall
thoroughly and carefully examine each taxicab before a license is granted to
operate the same. No taxicab license shall be issued for any taxicab which does
not comply with the following:
      (1)   It shall be in a thoroughly safe condition for the transportation
of passengers;
      (2)   It shall be clean and of good appearance;
      (3)   It shall have windows sufficient to permit ready identification of
persons riding therein.
   (B)   Such other examinations and tests of licensed taxicabs may be ordered
by the Manager as deemed advisable. The Manager shall maintain a constant
vigilance to see that all taxicabs are kept in fitness for public service.
(`89 Code, § 123.070)
§ 115.08 GRANTING.
   If the Manager is satisfied that the public convenience and good order will
be served thereby, the license may be granted to an applicant. Each license
granted shall be given a number and shall give the number and an adequate
description of the taxicabs licensed thereunder.
(`89 Code, § 123.080)
§ 115.09 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Any taxicab license may be transferred with the approval of the Manager.
(`89 Code, § 123.090)
§ 115.10 INSURANCE POLICIES.
   (A)   Before a license shall be delivered to any operator, the operator
shall deposit with the City Manager a policy of policies of an insurance
company or companies duly licensed to transact such business in this state,
insuring the operator against loss from the liability imposed by law for
damages on account of bodily injuries or death or for damages to property
resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use of any taxicab to be owned or
operated under such license. Such policy shall agree to pay to any judgment
creditor, to the extent of the amounts specified in such policy, any final
judgment rendered against the assured by reason of such liability. The policy
of policies shall be approved by the Attorney as to form and compliance with
this section.
   (B)   The limit in any such insurance policy of such liability of the
insurer on account of the ownership, maintenance and use of such taxicab shall
be as determined by Council resolution.
(`89 Code, § 123.100)
§ 115.11 TAXICAB TAGS AND SIGNS.
   (A)   The operator of each licensed taxicab shall be given a license which
shall be fastened and displayed above the windshield on the inside of each
taxicab. The license tag shall bear the license number of the taxicab and
proper descriptive words, including the year for which the license was issued
and it shall be of distinctly different shape for any three successive years.
In case any operator shall lose a license, the operator shall secure a
duplicate thereof by applying to the City Manager and paying the sum of $10
thereof before doing any further business with the taxicab from which the
license is lost.
   (B)   Each taxicab shall have some designation of the character of the
vehicle painted in plain visible letters on each side thereof.
   (C)   Each taxicab shall display on the inside a card printed in plain,
legible letters giving the number of the license, the minimum rates of fare to
be charged and a statement that any package or article left in the taxicab must
be returned by the taxicab driver to the City Manager’s office, where it may be
identified and claimed. The card shall also contain the statement “Ask the
Driver for Bill and Receipt,” in bold type.
(`89 Code, § 123.110)
§ 115.12 TAXICAB DRIVERS.
   Any person who drives a taxicab shall:
   (A)   Possess a Class C License issued by the State of Minnesota;
   (B)   Be clean and courteous at all times.
(`89 Code, § 123.120)
§ 115.13 TAXICAB STANDS.
   Licensed taxicabs may, when not carrying passengers, be parked at stands
designated for that purpose by resolution of the Council. No taxicab shall park
within 30 feet of any crosswalk unless this portion of the street has been
designated as a taxicab stand. Only licensed taxicabs shall be permitted to
park at taxicab stands.
(`89 Code, § 123.130)
§ 115.14 REVOCATION.
   Any taxicab license may be revoked by the Manager at any time for cause and
shall be revoked for any of the following reasons at the discretion of the
Manager after a public hearing and after first giving five days notice of said
hearing to the holder of such license:
   (A)   Failure of any operator for 30 days to pay any final judgment
recovered for damages arising out of the operation of said taxicab;
   (B)   Whenever any operator shall fail to operate any such licensed taxicab
or taxicabs for a period of 30 days, unless prevented by an emergency over
which the operator has no control.
(`89 Code, § 123.140)
§ 115.15 APPEAL TO COUNCIL.
   Any applicant who is denied a license and any licensee whose license is
suspended or revoked may appeal such action to the Council. The Council will
hold a hearing on any such appeal within 30 days after the appeal is filed with
the City Manager.
(`89 Code, § 123.150)
CHAPTER 116: COURTESY BENCHES
Section
   
116.01   License required
   
116.02   Consent of property owners
   
116.03   Insurance required
   
116.04   Investigation and granting
   
116.05   License and inspection fee
   
116.06   Conditions of license
   
116.07   Transfer of bench ownership
   
116.08   Removal of benches
   
116.09   Imposing a limit on courtesy benches
§ 116.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall place or maintain any courtesy bench or benches for the
convenience of persons waiting for buses upon the streets or other public
property of the city without a license.
(`89 Code, § 95.010)
§ 116.02 CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   If the property abutting the street at the point where a bench is to be
installed is zoned for residential or multiple dwelling use, the owner or
lessees of such property must consent in writing to the installation. The
attorney shall determine the form of the consent and may require the applicant
to provide evidence of ownership or lease. The consent shall be filed with the
application. An owner or lessee may withdraw consent for a subsequent year by
giving notice in writing of the desire to do so to the engineer on or before
the first day of April preceding the expiration of the license. The engineer
shall promptly notify the licensee of any withdrawal of consent.
(`89 Code, § 95.020)
§ 116.03 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   The licensee shall file with the City Manager a bond or policy of public
liability insurance approved by the attorney and conditioned that the licensee
will indemnify and save harmless the city, its officers, agents and employees
from any and all loss, costs, damages, expenses or liability which may result
from or arise out of the granting of such license or the installation or
maintenance of such bench for which a license is issued, regardless of the
point to which such bench or benches may be moved within the city with or
without the consent of the licensee, and that the licensee will pay any and all
loss or damage that may be sustained by any person as a result of, or which may
be caused by, or arise out of, such installation or maintenance. The bond or
policy of insurance shall be maintained in its original amount by the licensee
at all times during the period for which the license is in effect. In the event
that two or more licenses are issued to one licensee, one bond or policy of
insurance may be furnished to cover two or more benches, and each bond or
policy shall be of a type which automatically continues coverage after the
occurrence of any loss or accident from which liability may accrue.
(`89 Code, § 95.030)
§ 116.04 INVESTIGATION AND GRANTING.
   The engineer shall inspect and approve all proposed bench locations and
advise the Council. The engineer shall not approve the application if the
installation of the bench would tend unduly to obstruct passage along any
public sidewalk or way, would create a hazard, would be detrimental to the
public safety, welfare and convenience or would violate any provisions of this
chapter. All applications approved by the engineer shall be duly considered by
the Manager, which shall grant or deny the same. A separate license number and
license shall be issued for each bench authorized by the Manager, and the bench
location shall be designated in the license.
(`89 Code, § 95.040)
§ 116.05 LICENSE AND INSPECTION FEE.
   The License Manager and inspection fees shall be set by Council ordinance.
(`89 Code, § 95.050)
§ 116.06 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   All licenses in addition to the requirements under Chapter 110 shall comply
with the following conditions:
   (A)   No bench shall be placed in any alley, at any location where the
distance from the face of the curb to the inside sidewalk line is less than
eight feet or where the distance to the nearest point of intersection is more
than 50 feet;
   (B)   Each courtesy bench shall be installed parallel with the curb and set
back not less than 18 inches from the face of the curb;
   (C)   No bench shall be more than 42 inches high nor more than 30 inches
wide or seven feet long over all;
   (D)   Each bench shall have displayed thereon, in a conspicuous place, the
license number;
   (E)   The licensee shall maintain each bench at all times in a safe
condition at its proper location and inspect each bench periodically in order
that it may be properly maintained. Benches shall be kept at all times in a
neat, clean and usable condition. Ice and snow shall be removed from the
benches and the vicinity thereof in such a manner that each bench shall be
accessible at all times;
   (F)   The licensee shall move benches immediately upon request of the city
should temporary removal be made necessary by construction or repair work in
the vicinity of the bench;
   (G)   No advertising matter or sign shall be displayed upon any bench except
only upon the front and rear surfaces of the backrest. No liquor, beer or
obscene, immoral or indecent advertising or illegal or political advertising of
any character shall be permitted, and all advertising shall be subject to the
approval of the Manager;
   (H)   No advertising matter or sign on any bench shall display the words
“Stop,” “Look,” “Drive In,” “Danger” or any other word, phrase or symbol which
might interfere with, mislead or distract traffic.
(`89 Code, § 95.060)
§ 116.07 TRANSFER OF BENCH OWNERSHIP.
   Whenever a bench for which a license has been issued is sold or title or
control thereof transferred or assigned, a new license shall be required and
obtained for its maintenance.
(`89 Code, § 95.070)
§ 116.08 REMOVAL OF BENCHES.
   Upon the revocation or expiration of any license without renewal, if the
licensee fails promptly to remove a bench, the engineer may do so ten days
after written notice is sent to the licensee by mail, and if the licensee shall
fail to pay the cost of removal and storage thereof within a period of 60 days
after the giving of such notice, the licensee’s rights in said bench shall be
forfeited but such forfeiture shall not excuse the licensee from the payment of
the cost of removal and storage of said bench.
(`89 Code, § 95.080)
§ 116.09 IMPOSING A LIMIT OF COURTESY BENCHES.
   The number of courtesy benches within the city limits of North St. Paul
shall be no more than those numbers licensed on December 31, 1996. License
renewals shall have priority for annual licenses. When licenses are available,
the licensee shall be determined by lot.
(`89 Code, § 95.090)
CHAPTER 117: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Intoxicating Liquor
   
117.010   Adoption of state law by reference
   
117.011   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
117.015   Definitions
   
117.018   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
117.020   License required
   117.025   Consumption and display permits
   
117.030   Eligibility for license
   
117.040   Application for license
   
117.050   Insurance required
   
117.060   License fee and expiration
   
117.070   Investigation and hearing on application for license
   
117.080   Granting of license
   
117.085   Change in required information
   
117.090   Transfer of license
   
117.100   Persons ineligible for license
   
117.110   Places ineligible for license
   
117.120   Conditions of license; general license restrictions
   
117.122   Conditions of license; adult entertainment prohibition
   
117.124   Conditions of license; restrictions regarding gambling
   
117.126   Food sales
   
117.130   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
117.140   Permits for consumption on public land
   
117.145   Keeping or visiting house for unlicensed sale or purchase of
intoxicating liquor
   
117.150   Revocation, suspension or civil penalty
   
117.155   Conditions of license; hours of sale
   
117.160   Sunday sales licenses
   
117.170   Sales provisions applicable to caterers
3.2% Malt Liquor
   
117.300   Provisions of state law adopted
   
117.310   Additional provisions adopted
   
117.320   License fees and expiration
   
117.330   Selling
Selling Setups
   
117.400   Permit required
   
117.410   Amount of fee
   
117.420   Posting a permit and receipt
   
117.430   Inspection of premises
   
117.440   Premises licensed for sale of liquor
   
117.450   Additional provisions adopted
Penalties
   
117.600   Civil penalties; all liquor licenses
INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 117.010 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. § 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full, except as hereinafter
modified or changed. It is the intention of the City Council that all future
amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if
they had been in existence at the time this chapter is adopted.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.011 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. These definitions are in
addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   BAR/TAVERN. An on-sale “Exclusive Liquor Store,” not a restaurant, hotel,
bowling center, club or dinner theater.
   CITY. The City of North St. Paul.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of North St. Paul.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is currently under the employment of the licensee and
is at the time on  duty or scheduled to perform labor or services and who shall
be paid for said labor and services.
   EXCLUSIVE LIQUOR STORE. An establishment used exclusively for the sale of
those items authorized in M.S. § 340A.412, Subd.14.
   FISCAL YEAR. The 12-month period used for accounting and income tax
purposes.
   ISSUING AUTHORITY. The City of North St. Paul.
   LICENSE. A license granted pursuant to this chapter.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The area shown in the license application as the place
where wine or liquor will be served or consumed, provided it is compact and
contiguous.
   LOBBY. A vestibule or entrance open to the general public that is physically
separated and distinct from retail establishments that are accessible from the
vestibule or entrance through doors.
   MEAL. Entrees, appetizers and sandwiches offered from a printed restaurant
menu.
   MINOR. Any person who has not attained the age of 21.
   PUBLIC CONCOURSE. A corridor or hallway open to the general public that is
physically separate and distinct from the retail establishments or stores that
are accessible from the corridor or hallway through doors.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment where food, meals, or lunches are prepared or
served for consumption on the premises and which is licensed by the county as a
food establishment.
   SALE, SELL, SERVE, SOLD. All barters, exchanges, gifts, sales, and other
means used to obtain, dispose of, furnish or dispense any liquor or wine or any
other beverage, directly or indirectly, as part of any transaction, in
violation or evasion of the provisions of this chapter, but does not include
sales by state licensed liquor wholesalers selling to licensed retailers.
   SCHOOL. A building that is principally used as a place where 25 or more
persons receive a full course of educational instruction. Any post-secondary or
post-high school educational building, including any college or any vocational-
technical college, shall not be deemed a school for purposes of this chapter.
   WINE TASTING EVENT. An event of not more than four hours duration at which
persons pay a fee or donation to participate, and are allowed to consume wine
by the glass on the premises without paying a separate charge for each glass.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 749,
passed 1-19- 2016)
§ 117.018 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses
that a city may issue. The number of licenses which may be granted under this
chapter is limited to the number of licenses which are currently allowed under
M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council is not
required to issue the full number of licenses that may be available.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 749,
passed 1-19- 2016)
§ 117.020 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except wholesalers or
manufacturers to the extent authorized under state license, to directly or
indirectly, upon any pretense or by any device, to deal in or dispose by gift,
sell, exchange, barter, keep for sale, dispense or otherwise dispose of any
alcoholic beverages within the city without first having obtained the
appropriate license and/or permit(s) from the city.
   (B)   Types of licenses.
      (1)   Intoxicating liquor licenses shall be of eight kinds: On-sale, Off-
sale, On-sale Wine, Club, Special Sunday, Microdistillery Cocktail Room On-
sale, Microdistillery Off-Sale, and Temporary On-Sale.
      (2)   Three point two percent malt liquor licenses shall be of seven
kinds: On-sale, Off-sale, Brewpub On-sale, Brewpub Off-sale, Brewer Taproom On-
sale, Small Brewer Off-Sale, and Temporary On-Sale.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 749,
passed 1-19- 2016) Penalty, see §
117.600
§ 117.025 CONSUMPTION AND DISPLAY PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required; operation.
      (1)   No business establishment or club which does not hold an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license may directly or indirectly allow the consumption
and display of alcoholic beverages or knowingly serve any liquid for the
purpose of mixing with intoxicating liquor without first having obtained a
permit from the city.
      (2)   A permit issued under this section authorizes the holder to permit
the consumption and display of intoxicating liquor on the premises; it does not
authorize the sale, dealing, exchange, gifting, barter, or dispensing of
intoxicating liquor by the holder. The holder of a permit under this section
may not allow consumption and display of alcoholic beverages outside the hours
of operation allowed for on-sale licenses under this chapter.
      (3)   Patrons of an establishment holding a permit under this chapter
wishing to consume alcoholic beverages shall provide a designated patron who is
responsible for opening, mixing, or serving all alcoholic beverages consumed by
other patrons. The designated patron must have training in the service of
alcoholic beverages, such as an MLBA bartender course, TIPS on-sale alcohol
server training, or equivalent. The designated patron may not consume any
alcoholic beverages themselves, and may not be under the influence of any
substance tending to impair judgment such as cannabis or lower-potency hemp
edibles. The designated patron shall be responsible for ensuring that all
patrons consuming alcohol are legally allowed to do so, including that all
patrons consuming alcohol are at least 21 years of age. The identity of the
designated patron, and proof of appropriate training, shall be provided to the
establishment in writing before any consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be
permitted. The establishment shall keep a record of the identity of the
designated patron and proof of training for at least three years following the
date of the event.
   (B)   No applicant may obtain a consumption and display PERMIT if the
applicant has, within five prior years to the application, been convicted of a
felony of or violating any provision of or rule adopted pursuant to M.S.
Chapter 340A, or of any local ordinance relating to the sale of intoxicating
liquor.
   (C)   Eligibility.
      (1)   The city may issue a consumption and display permit to an applicant
who has not, within five years prior to the application, been convicted of a
felony or of violating any provision of M.S. Chapter 340A or any rule or
ordinance adopted under that chapter.
      (2)   No consumption and display permit may issue for a location
ineligible for licensure under § 117.110. A consumption and display permit is
not a "new on-sale license" for the purposes of determining eligibility for
licensure.
   (D)   Insurance.
      (1)   Each application for a permit under this section shall be
accompanied by a certificate of commercial liability insurance for a policy
that will remain active at all times during the validity of the permit.
      (2)   Each application must also include a certificate of workers
compensation insurance.
      (3)   For any event at an establishment holding a permit under this
section that may involve the consumption of alcohol, the patrons organizing the
event shall obtain event insurance including liquor coverage in an amount of
not less than $250,000 per occurrence/$500,000 aggregate. The patron shall
provide the permit holder with a certificate of insurance proving compliant
coverage. The permit holder shall keep a record of the proof of insurance for
not less than three years after the date of the event. Upon request, the permit
holder must provide the proof of insurance to the city for inspection. Nothing
in this chapter shall prohibit the holder of a permit under this section from
requiring additional insurance from its patrons above and beyond the limits
required in this chapter.
   (E)   Application procedure.
      (1)   The applicant must complete and submit an application to the City
Manager or designee, and pay the fee as set by the Council. The City Manager or
designee shall review the application for completeness, and shall reject any
incomplete applications.
      (2)   If the application is deemed complete, the City Manager or designee
shall refer the application to the Chief of Police and to such other city
departments as the Manager or designee shall deem necessary for the
verification and investigation of the facts set forth in the application. The
Chief of Police shall cause to be made such investigation, and shall make a
written recommendation and report to the Council. The Council may order or
conduct such additional investigation as it shall deem necessary.
      (3)   The City Council shall approve or deny the application. Opportunity
shall be given to any person to be heard for or against granting the permit.
      (4)   No consumption and display permit shall be valid until it is
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety and any fees or costs required
for such approval are paid.
   (F)   Consumption and display permits expire each year on March 31.
   (G)   Permits are issued to the location specified in the application only,
and may not be transferred between locations or between permittees.
   (H)   No permit may be issued or renewed if the results of the investigation
show, to the satisfaction of the City Council, that issuance or renewal would
not be in the public interest.
   (I)   Violations of this section shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of § 117.600.
(Ord. 839, passed 4-15-2025)
§ 117.030 ELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   “On-sale” licenses shall be issued to hotels, bowling centers,
restaurants, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans' organizations, and
exclusive liquor stores only.
   (B)   “Off-sale” licenses shall be issued to exclusive liquor stores only.
   (C)   Special club licenses shall be issued only to duly incorporated clubs
which have been in existence for a minimum of three years, have more than 50
members and sales will only be to members and bona fide guests.
   (D)   No “on-sale” or “off-sale” license shall be issued to a holder of any
other license in the city which authorizes the sale of liquor, whether “off-
sale,” “on- sale” or “club”, with the exception that a holder of an on-sale
wine license may also be licensed to sell 3.2% malt liquor “on-sale.”
   (E)   The holder of an on-sale wine license who is also licensed to sell
3.2% malt liquor and whose gross receipts are at least 60% attributable to the
sale of food may also sell intoxicating malt liquor at on-sale without an
additional license.
   (F)   “Microdistillery Cocktail Room On-sale" licenses may be issued to the
holder of a microdistillery license issued under M.S. § 340A.22. A
microdistillery cocktail room on-sale license authorizes the on-sale of
distilled liquor produced by the distiller for consumption on the premises of
or adjacent to one distillery location owned by the distiller.
   (G)   "Microdistillery Off-sale" licenses may be issued to the holder of a
microdistillery license issued under M.S. § 340A.22. A microdistillery off-sale
license authorizes off-sale of one 375 milliliter bottle per customer per day
of product manufactured on-site, pursuant to the conditions imposed by M.S. §
340A.22, Subd. 4.
   (H)   "Brewpub On-sale" licenses shall be granted only to a brewery licensed
under M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 6, clause (d). A brewpub on-sale license
authorizes on-sale of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor for a restaurant
operated in the place of manufacture.
   (I)   "Brewpub Off-sale" licenses may be issued, with the approval of the
commissioner, to a brewer holding a brewpub on-sale license. A brewpub off-sale
license authorizes off-sale of 3.2% malt liquor produced and packaged on the
licensed premises, pursuant to the conditions imposed by M.S. § 340A.24, Subd.
2. A brewpub off-sale license also authorizes the off-sale of malt liquor
packaged in 64-ounce containers commonly known as growlers, between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on Sundays.
   (J)   "Brewer Taproom On-Sale" licenses shall be granted only to a brewery
licensed under Minn. Stat. § 340A.301, Subd. 6, clause (c), (i), or (j). A
Brewer Taproom On-Sale license authorizes on-sale of malt liquor produced by
the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one brewery
location owned by the brewer, pursuant to the conditions imposed by M.S. §
340A.26.
   (K)   "Small Brewer Off-Sale" licenses may be issued, with the approval of
the commissioner, to a brewery licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 6, clause
(c), (i), or (j). A small brewer off-sale license authorizes off-sale of 3.2%
malt liquor pursuant to the conditions imposed by M.S. § 340A.28. A small
brewer off-sale license also authorizes the off-sale of malt liquor packaged in
64-ounce containers commonly known as growlers, between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m. on Sundays.
   (L)   "Temporary On-Sale Liquor" licenses may be issued, with the approval
of the commissioner, to a club or charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
organization in existence for at least three years, for the on-sale of
intoxicating liquor for up to four days on the premises of said club or
organization, in connection with a social event sponsored by the licensee. No
more than three four-day, four three-day, six two-day, or 12 one-day temporary
on-sale liquor licenses, in any combination not to exceed 12 days per year,
will be issued to any one club or organization or for any one location, within
a twelve month period. No more than one temporary on-sale liquor license will
be issued to any one club or organization or for any one location, within a 30-
day period.
   (M)   “Temporary On-Sale 3.2 % Malt Liquor" licenses may be issued to a club
or charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization for the sale of 3.2% malt
liquor for up to four days on the premises of said organization, in connection
with a social event sponsored by the licensee.
   (N)   “On-Sale Wine" licenses may be issued, with the approval of the
commissioner, to a restaurant having facilities for seating at least 25 guests
at one time or to a licensed bed and breakfast facility, for the on-sale of
wine of up to 24% alcohol by volume for consumption on the premises.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 749,
passed 1-19- 2016)
§ 117.040 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Every application for a license to sell liquor shall be verified and
filed with the City Manager. It shall state the name of the applicant, age,
representations as to character with such references as may be required,
citizenship, whether the application is for “on-sale” or “off-sale,” the
business in connection with which the proposed license will operate and its
location, whether applicant is owner and operator of the business, how long has
been in that business at that place and such other information as the Council
may require from time to time. In addition to containing such information, each
application for a license shall be in the form prescribed by the Department of
Public Safety. No person shall make a false statement in an application.
   (B)   At the time of each original application for a license, except in the
case of an “on-sale club” license, the applicant shall consent in writing to
the city performing a criminal background check and pay, in full, a background
investigation fee.
      (1)   The fee may not exceed $500 if the investigation is conducted
within the state. Please submit $500 with each application where the
investigation will be conducted in state. The city will notify the applicant of
any additional charges. There will be no refund of any fees for those
investigations that can be conducted within the state.
      (2)   The investigation fee may not exceed the actual cost of the
investigation, but not more than $10,000, if the investigation is required
outside the state. Please submit a minimum down payment of $2,500 with each
application where the investigation will be required outside the state. The
city will notify the applicant of any additional charges required before
beginning the investigation. Any fee greater than $500 that is in excess of
actual cost for an investigation outside the state will be refunded to the
applicant.
   (C)   At any time that an additional investigation is required because of a
change in the ownership or control of a corporation, or the licensee changes
managers, the licensee shall pay an additional investigation fee in the amount
of $75 per hour.
   (D)   No license may be issued, transferred or renewed if the results of the
investigation show that the issuance, transfer or renewal would not be in the
public interest.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 842,
passed 6-3- 2025)
§ 117.050 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a
certificate of liability insurance for a policy that will remain active at all
times during the validity of the license. The certificate of insurance must
show the city as the certificate holder covering the licensing period. The
certificate of insurance must indicate that: (1) the per-occurrence liquor
liability limit meets or exceeds the minimum required dollar amount of coverage
under M.S. § 340A.409, Subd. 1(a)(1), as it may be amended from time to time;
(2) the policy covers the seven types of claims listed in M.S. § 340A.409,
Subd. 1(a)(1), as it may be amended from time to time; and (3) the policy is
subject to the cancellation notice requirements, including notice to the city,
listed in M.S. § 340A.409, Subd. 1(d), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Each application must also include a certificate of workers
compensation insurance.
      (3)   The above insurance requirements do not apply to licensees who
establish by affidavit any of the following:
         (a)   They are on-sale 3.2% malt liquor licensees with sales of less
than $25,000 in the preceding year;
         (b)   They are off-sale 3.2% malt liquor licensees with sales of less
than $50,000 in the preceding year;
         (c)   They are on-sale wine licensees with sales of less than $25,000
in the preceding year;
         (d)   They are temporary wine licensees under law; or
         (e)   They hold only a consumption and display permit.
   (B)   All insurance policies shall be approved by the Council, after
approval by the City Attorney as to form.
   (C)   The operation of any liquor business without having on file at all
times within the city the liability insurance policy, all as required by this
section and state law, shall be grounds for immediate revocation of the
license. Any hearing required by M.S. § 340.135, as it may be amended from time
to time, shall be held before the liability insurance is terminated.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 751,
passed 6-7- 2016; Am. Ord. 839, passed 4-15-2025) Penalty, see §
117.600
§ 117.060 LICENSE FEE AND EXPIRATION.
   (A)   No license shall be issued until a receipt from the Finance Director
is produced for the payment of the required fee for the license. All fees shall
be paid into the General Fund of the city. Upon rejection of any application
for a license, the Finance Director shall refund the amount paid.
   (B)   All licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year. Each license shall
be issued for a period of one year, except that if a portion of the license
year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be issued for the
remainder of the year.
   (C)   The license fees shall be set by Council ordinance. No refund of any
fee shall be permitted except as authorized under M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 6, as
it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.070 INVESTIGATION AND HEARING ON APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   A criminal background check is required of the applicant prior to the
issuance of any new license, or renewal of any license, under this chapter. The
applicant’s information shall be referred to the Chief of Police or designee
for a criminal history investigation from the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal
Apprehension or relevant agency. Following completion of the investigation the
Chief shall make a written recommendation and report to the Council.
   (B)   The Council may order and conduct such additional investigation as it
shall deem necessary. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for
or against the granting of the license.
   (C)   No license may be issued, transferred or renewed if the results of the
investigation show, to the satisfaction of the City Council, that issuance,
transfer or renewal would not be in the public interest.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 842,
passed 6-3-2025)
§ 117.080 GRANTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   After an application has been received, and the facts investigated,
the City Council, in its discretion, may either grant or deny the application
for any license, transfer, or renewal. Opportunity shall be given to any person
to be heard for or against the granting of any license. This same procedure,
with the exception of the initial investigation fee, shall apply to the renewal
of all liquor licenses.
   (B)   Each liquor license shall be issued to the applicant only, except:
      (1)   Partnerships, where all partners shall be named on the license;
      (2)   Corporation and clubs, where the manager who shall have the direct
control and supervision of the premises shall also be named on the license.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.085 CHANGE IN REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   Each licensee has the continuing duty to promptly notify the City Manager of
any change in the information or facts required to be furnished on the
application for a license. This duty continues throughout the period of the
license, and failure to comply with said duty constitutes cause for revocation
or suspension of the license or penalty as provided by law or ordinance.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.090 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No license may be transferred to another person or to another place
without the approval of the Council.
   (B)   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the
approval of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is
deemed to be a transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior
Council approval is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to
transfer a license shall be treated the same as an application for a new
license, and all of the provisions of this code applying to applications for a
license shall apply.
   (C)   In the event of the death of a person holding a license, the personal
representative of that person is allowed to continue to operate the business
within the terms of the license for a period not to exceed 90 days after the
death of the licensee. M.S. 340A.410, Subd. 3.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.100 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be granted to or held by any person or corporation
who is ineligible under M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   No license shall be granted to any person under the state established
legal drinking age.
   (C)   No license required under this chapter may be issued to or held by any
person or corporation who has had any type of liquor license revoked within
five years of the liquor application.
   (D)   No new license may be issued to or held and the City Council may
refuse to renew the license of any person or corporation who, within five years
of license application, has been convicted of a felony or a willful violation
of federal or state law or local ordinance governing the manufacture, sale,
distribution, or possession for sale or distribution of an alcoholic beverage.
The city may require that fingerprints be taken and forwarded to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation for purposes of a criminal history check.
   (E)   No license shall be granted to the spouse of a person who is
ineligible for an intoxicating liquor license.
   (F)   No new license shall be issued or renewed for a person who, in the
judgment of the City Council, is not the real party in interest or beneficial
owner of the business operated, or to be operated, under the license.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.110 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city, school
district, county or the state are delinquent and/or unpaid.
   (B)   No place shall be granted more than one kind of license under this
chapter. For the purposes of this division, the term PLACE shall be construed
to mean the confines for which a license was granted.
   (C)   No license shall be granted for any place which has a common entrance
or exit between any two establishments, except that a public concourse or
public lobby shall not be construed as a common entrance or exit.
   (D)   No license shall be granted for the areas prohibited in M.S. §
340A.412, Subd. 4.
   (E)   No license shall be granted to any property where the conduct of the
business is prohibited by
Chapter 152.
   (F)   No license shall be granted to any property not eligible under M.S.
Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and the regulations of
the Department of Public Safety.
   (G)   No license shall be granted to any property used in whole or in part
as an adult use business as defined by
Chapter 120.
   (H)   No new on-sale license under this chapter shall be granted to an
establishment that does not have a dining area, open to the general public,
with a total minimum floor area of 750 square feet.
   (I)   No new on-sale license shall be granted to any on-sale establishment
that does not provide separate indoor restroom facilities for males and
females, each clearly marked. Adequate restrooms facilities shall minimally
have at least one wash basin/sink and at least one toilet and be able to be
secured from the inside. Additionally, restrooms shall provide cleansing and
drying materials. If more than one toilet and/or urinal is provided, each
toilet shall have a separate enclosure with a door that can be secured from the
inside. Dividers shall be provided with urinals.
   (J)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses. In addition to the requirements
of this chapter, no new on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall be granted to
any establishment other than a restaurant, a hotel, a bowling center or a
dinner theater.
   (K)   Existing on-sale establishments as of June 30, 2011, are not subject
to the provisions of divisions (H) through (J) of this section and may have
their licenses renewed or a new license issued to a new owner for operation as
an exclusive liquor store (non- restaurant) unless a substantial change is made
to the premises for which the establishment is licensed.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 837,
passed 2-4-2025)
§ 117.120 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE; GENERAL LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   Every license shall be granted subject to the following restrictions and all
other requirements of this chapter and of any other applicable law of the city
or state:
   (A)   Posting of license. A license issued under this chapter must be posted
in a conspicuous place in the premises for which it is used.
   (B)   Description of premises. The application shall specifically describe
the compact and contiguous premises within which liquor may be dispensed and
consumed. A detailed diagram of the floor plan shall
be included. The description may not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
      (1)   A license issued under this chapter is only effective for the
compact and contiguous space specified in the approved license application. If
the licensed premises is enlarged, altered, or extended, the licensee shall
inform the issuing authority and complete a new license application.
      (2)   Patios/decks/outdoor areas.
         (a)   1.   Licensed establishments may choose to have an attached
patio/deck or outdoor area on their premises, provided a site plan depicting
the outdoor serving area is included in the original application for licensure.
Such site plan shall include the following:
            2.   Demarcation of the outdoor serving area. Methods of
demarcation may be a fence, wall, landscaping, or other means if deemed
acceptable by City Council.
          (b)   Licensee shall not serve, allow or permit any person to be in
possession of or consume alcohol beyond the area designated for such.
         (c)   The patio/deck/outdoor area must be included in the original
application and be compact and contiguous with the liquor service area. If an
addition, a new license application shall be made.
   (C)   Responsibility for sobriety and order. A licensee under this chapter
shall be responsible for the conduct of the business being operated and shall
maintain conditions of sobriety and order.
   (D)   Any Police Officer, Building Inspector, Fire Marshal, Code Enforcement
Officer or any properly designated officer or employee of the city shall have
the unqualified right to enter, inspect and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises, without a warrant.
   (E)   No licensee shall apply for or possess a federal wholesale liquor
dealers special stamp tax or federal gambling stamp.
   (F)   Prostitution and illegal drug prohibitions. A licensee under this
chapter shall not allow any person to engage in prostitution or to sell or use
illegal drugs on the licensed premises or in any adjoining building or room
under the licensee's control.
   (G)   Coin-operated amusement devices. Coin- operated amusement devices may
not be made available in establishments holding an off-sale license under this
chapter.
   (H)   Signage. The licensee shall post and maintain in a conspicuous place
within the licensed premises clearly visible to consumers: one sign, 14-1/
2 inches wide by eight inches high, as designed by the Commissioners of Health
and Public Safety, which incorporates the following information:
      (1)   The penalties of driving while under the influence of alcohol;
      (2)   Penalties for serving alcoholic beverages to a person who is
obviously intoxicated or under 21 years of age; and
      (3)   A warning statement regarding drinking alcohol while pregnant.
   (I)   Temporary amendment of licensed liquor premises. A holder of an on-
sale liquor license shall make application to the issuing authority for a
temporary amendment of the licensed premises, at least 60 days in advance, of
any event at which the licensee proposes to amend the liquor licensed premises
to provide for liquor service in a compact and contiguous area not included in
the original license application. Included in that application, the licensee
must submit a site plan of the compact and contiguous area from which liquor is
to be dispensed and consumed, the maximum anticipated number of guests
attending the event and the total occupancy load for the area covered by the
temporarily amended licensed premises. The application must include evidence of
insurance for the area covered by the temporarily amended licensed premises and
payment of all temporary amendment processing fees set forth by the City
Council. The City Council shall consider all such amendments to the licensed
premises using the following criteria:
      (1)   The area to be used must be immediately adjacent to the licensed
premises;
      (2)   The area will be used in connection with a special event no longer
than three days in duration;
      (3)   No more than six temporary amendments per year will be allowed for
a licensee at one establishment and a special license issued a non- profit,
charitable, religious or political organization which contracts with the
licensee for provision of service will be counted as part of this total;
      (4)   Adequate measures will be taken to control access to the additional
area, to ensure that alcoholic beverages will not be furnished in violation of
state law or this City Code to persons under the age of 21 years, obviously
intoxicated persons or carried outside of the licensed premises or the
temporarily expanded area;
      (5)   Adequate measures will be taken to ensure that there will not be a
violation of the city's noise ordinance;
      (6)   The use of the additional area will not decrease available parking
below that required by the zoning ordinance for the licensed premises;
      (7)   The use of the additional area will not unreasonably impede traffic
circulation;
      (8)   The licensee has obtained adequate liability insurance for the
additional area; and
      (9)   The issuance of the temporary amendment will not be adverse to the
public health, safety and welfare.
   (J)   No liquor shall be sold or furnished to any intoxicated person or to
any person under 21 years of age.
   (K)   Minors selling. No licensee under this chapter shall permit a person
less than 18 years of age to serve or sell liquor or alcoholic beverage. A
licensee under this chapter may employ a person under the age of 18 years,
provided that person does not serve, sell, or furnish any liquor or alcoholic
beverage, and provided that the employment of that person does not violate any
state or federal child labor law or regulation.
   (L)   Consumption requirements. Consumption of on-sale alcoholic beverages
is allowed only in the approved licensed premises.
   (M)   No persons, except employees or owners, shall be allowed on any
licensed premises between the hours of 1:30 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.
   (N)   No licensee shall host, provide or utilize space within the licensed
premises to conduct "under 21 night promotions" unless all liquor has been
removed from the premises, including automated dispensing systems, and a
special event permit has been submitted at least 60 days in advance, and is
approved by the Council.
   (O)   Conditions for temporary liquor and 3.2% malt liquor licenses. The
following conditions apply to all temporary licenses:
      (1)   Adequate measures will be taken to control access to the area, to
ensure that alcoholic beverages will not be furnished in violation of state law
or this City Code to persons under the age of 21 years or to obviously
intoxicated persons or carried outside of the licensed premises;
      (2)   Adequate measures will be taken to ensure that there will not be a
violation of the city's noise ordinance;
      (3)   The use of the area will not decrease available parking below that
required by the zoning ordinance for the licensed premises;
      (4)   The use of the area will not unreasonably impede traffic
circulation;
      (5)   The licensee has obtained adequate liability insurance which will
cover the event and alcohol sale; and
      (6)   The issuance of the temporary license will not be adverse to the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 749,
passed 1-19- 2016; Am. Ord. 805, passed 6-7-2022) Penalty, see §
117.600
§ 117.122 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE; ADULT ENTERTAINMENT PROHIBITION.
   The City Council finds that the sale and/or presence of alcoholic beverages
by the drink and adult entertainment occurring on the same premises can
increase disorderly conduct and can result in incidents of prostitution, public
masturbation, indecent exposure, and/or sexual assault. In order to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of city residents, and pursuant to the City
Council's authority to regulate alcoholic beverages under M.S. Chapter 340A and
the Twenty-first Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, no licensee shall permit
the following kinds of conduct on the licensed premises or in areas adjoining
the licensed premises where the following kinds of conduct can be seen by
patrons of the licensed premises:
   (A)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, or flagellation; or
   (B)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing, or fondling on the
breast, buttocks, anus, or genitals; or
   (C)   The actual or simulated displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva, or
genitals; or
   (D)   The displaying of films rated by the Motion Picture Association of
America as NC-17: “No One 17 And Under Admitted”, unrated films and films
deemed obscene or pornographic pursuant to state or federal law; or
   (E)   The presentation of any female in such manner or attire to expose to
view any portion of the breast below the top of the areola, or any simulation
thereof.
   (F)   Nudity prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed
premises when that person does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and
genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.124 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE; RESTRICTIONS REGARDING GAMBLING.
   (A)   No licensee under this chapter may keep, possess, or operate, or
permit the keeping, possession, or operation on the licensed premises of dice,
slot machines, blackjack tables, roulette wheels or gambling devices except in
conjunction with the holding of a casino or other lawful gaming event as
authorized under
Chapter 112 of the City Code.
   (B)   No licensee under this chapter shall permit gambling on the licensed
premises, except that gambling equipment may be kept or operated and raffles
may be conducted on the licensed premises and/or adjoining rooms when the use
of such gambling equipment or raffles is authorized under M.S. §§ 349.11
through 349.60, and authorized under
Chapter 112 of the City Code.
   (C)   Lottery tickets. The purchase of lottery tickets may take place on the
licensed premises as authorized by the director of the lottery pursuant to M.S.
§§ 349.A01 through 349A.15.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011) Penalty, see §
117.600
§ 117.126 FOOD SALES.
   (A)   No on-sale liquor license shall be issued to a new establishment
unless it meets the definition in §
117.015 and requirements of a restaurant, hotel, bowling center, club or
theater.
   (B)   Food service must be available to customers up until two hours before
discontinuing alcoholic beverage service.
   (C)   Existing on-sale establishments as of June 30, 2011 that intend to
operate as restaurants shall meet the definition and requirements of a
restaurant in §
117.015 by June 30, 2012.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.130 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   No liquor shall be sold or consumed or displayed in an open container
on a public right-of-way or in a motor vehicle, subject to §
117.140. A public right-of-way shall include but not be limited to a street,
sidewalk, boulevard, alley, trail, parking lot or park.
   (B)   No person being a trespasser upon the private premises of another may
drink or possess beer, intoxicating liquor, or any alcoholic beverage.
   (C)   No liquor shall be consumed at any one place within the city limits
without a permit granted by the City Manager or designee, where there are more
than 50 people in attendance, except where a liquor license has been issued.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 749,
passed 1-19- 2016) Penalty, see §
117.600
§ 117.140 PERMITS FOR CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC LAND.
   Liquor shall not be consumed in any park or public lands except as otherwise
provided by ordinance.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 749,
passed 1-19- 2016) Penalty, see §
117.600
§ 117.145 KEEPING OR VISITING HOUSE FOR UNLICENSED SALE OR PURCHASE OF
INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   It is a misdemeanor to:
   (A)   Keep within the city a house or place for the unlicensed sale of
intoxicating liquor; or
   (B)   Visit such house or place to purchase or consume any intoxicating
liquor sold on the premises.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011) Penalty, see §
117.600
§ 117.150 REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR CIVIL PENALTY.
   The Council may suspend, revoke or impose a civil penalty on any liquor
license for violation of any provision or condition of this chapter or any
state law or rule regulating intoxicating liquor as provided in §
117.600.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.155 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE; HOURS OF SALE.
   A licensee under this chapter shall make no sale of or furnish any alcoholic
beverage during the following hours on the following days:
   (A)   Off-sale licensees. No off-sale of any alcoholic beverage or liquor
may be made:
      (1)   On Sundays, except between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.;
      (2)   Before 8:00 a.m. on Monday through Saturday;
      (3)   After 10:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday;
      (4)   On Thanksgiving Day;
      (5)   After 8:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve, December 24, unless a Sunday,
then after 6:00 p.m.;
      (6)   On Christmas Day, December 25.
   (B)   On-sale licensees. No sale of any alcoholic beverage for consumption
on the licensed premises may be made:
      (1)   Before 8:00 a.m. on Monday through Saturday;
      (2)   After 1:00 a.m. on Monday through Saturday;
      (3)   After 1:00 a.m. on Sunday, except as allowed in §
117.160.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 749,
passed 1-19- 2016; Am. Ord. 762, passed 6-6-2017) Penalty, see §
117.600
§ 117.160 SUNDAY SALES LICENSES.
   Special licenses for the sale of alcoholic beverages on Sundays shall be
issued only under the following conditions:
   (A)   The holder of an“on-sale” license may apply to the Council for a
Sunday sales license pursuant to which such licensee may sell alcoholic
beverages the holder is otherwise licensed to sell for consumption on the
licensed premises between the hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sundays and 1:00 a.m. on
Mondays in conjunction with the sale of food, provided that the licensee is in
conformance with the Minnesota Clean Air Act;
   (B)   No Sunday sales license shall be issued contrary to state law;
   (C)   All the requirements of this chapter are followed;
   (D)   No Sunday sales license may be issued to an on-sale licensee unless
the licensee operates a restaurant as defined in §
117.015, serving meals regularly to the public and having facilities for
serving at least 30 diners at the same time, at least 24 of which must be at
tables separate from the bar. Establishments must also comply with §
117.126;
   (E)   Any on-sales licensee who requests a certificate of compliance for
Sunday sales and which is refused such a certificate by the City Manager may
appeal the same to the Council within ten days after the refusal and payment of
a $200 fee to cover the costs of the appeal by the city. The Council shall
consider all such evidence as it considers valid in determining whether or not
the licensee is eligible for a Sunday sales license. Only one such request
shall be allowed each license year;
   (F)   Any Sunday sales licensee who offers for sale any alcoholic beverage
before 8:00 a.m. on Sundays or after 1:00 a.m. on Mondays, shall be considered
as violating the liquor law and shall, as penalty, forfeit its Sunday sales
license for at least a one-year period, in addition to any other penalties that
may be applicable, and/or any other sanctions imposed by the City Council.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 749,
passed 1-19-2016; Am. Ord. 762, passed 6-6-2017; Am. Ord. 789, passed 5-5-2020)
Penalty, see §
117.600
§ 117.170 SALES PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO CATERERS.
   (A)   City Council findings. The City Council makes the following findings
regarding the need to enact additional sale provisions governing persons
selling or furnishing alcoholic beverages pursuant to a caterer's permit issued
pursuant to M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 12.
      (1)   Minnesota Statutes § 340A.404, Subd. 12, authorizes the holder of a
caterer's permit to provide alcoholic beverages at unlicensed locations
provided that the sale is incidental to a larger food service. The City Council
enacts the following sale provisions in order to preserve the incidental nature
of the caterer's permit and to preserve the underlying state and local
framework for permanent on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses.
      (2)   The issuance of a caterer's permit does not allow a person to in
effect operate a permanent on- sale intoxicating liquor establishment; rather
it entitles the person to provide temporary alcoholic beverages as an
incidental part of a food service that prepares meals at special locations
apart from the licensee's permanent location. The location requirements in this
section for the sale of alcoholic beverages at catered events are enacted to
assure compliance with existing state and local provisions regarding on-sale
licenses.
      (3)   Numerous events conducted at one location where alcoholic beverages
are provided by caterers thwarts the licensing scheme for permanent on-sale
intoxicating liquor establishments.
   (B)   Sale provisions. Events that are catered in accordance with M.S. §
340A.404, Subd. 12 shall comply with the following additional sale provisions:
      (1)   No one location shall have more than 48 days of catered events in
one calendar year at which alcoholic beverages are served to the general
public, and in no case shall any one such event be for more than four
consecutive days.
      (2)   Notice to the license section of the catered event shall be
provided seven days prior to the event.
      (3)   A special event license under this chapter shall be required for
any event at which 5,000 or more people are expected to attend the function or
event.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011) Penalty, see §
117.600
3.2% MALT LIQUOR
§ 117.300 PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, applications for license, granting
of license, conditions of license, restrictions on consumption, provision on
sales, hours of sale and all other matters pertaining to the retail sale,
distribution and consumption of 3.2% malt liquors are adopted and made a part
of this chapter as if fully set out herein, except as hereinafter modified or
changed.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.310 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   All the provisions of §§
117.020,
117.030,
117.050 and
117.070 through
117.160 shall apply to 3.2% malt liquors as if hereinafter fully set forth.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.320 LICENSE FEES AND EXPIRATION.
   (A)   No license shall be issued until a receipt from the Finance Director
is produced for the payment of the required fee for the license. All fees shall
be paid into the General Fund of the city. Upon rejection of any application
for a license, the Finance Director shall refund the amount paid.
   (B)   All licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year. Each license shall
be issued for a period of one year, except that if a portion of the licensed
year has elapsed when the application is made, a license shall be issued for
the remainder of the year.
   (C)   The license fee for all licensees shall be set by Council ordinance.
   (D)   No refund of any fee shall be permitted, except as authorized under
M.S. § 340A.408(5), as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.330 SELLING.
   No person under the age of 18 years shall sell or serve any 3.2% malt
liquor.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011) Penalty, see §
117.600
SELLING SETUPS
§ 117.400 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No private club or public place, directly or indirectly or upon any pretense
or by any device, shall allow the consumption or display of intoxicating liquor
or the serving of any liquid for the purpose of mixing with intoxicating liquor
without first securing a permit therefore from the Department of Public Safety
and paying an annual fee as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.410 AMOUNT OF FEE.
   The fee under this subchapter shall be $300 per year, which shall be in
addition to any license or permit fees required by the state. The fee shall be
paid to the Finance Director on or before July 1 of each year. Any private club
or public place which pays a fee subsequent to July 1 shall pay a pro rate fee
for the period of time from which the fee is paid until the following July 1;
provided, however, that any private club or public place which violates the
provisions of §
117.400 shall not be entitled to pay a pro rate fee, but must pay the full $300
fee. In computing the pro rate fee, an unexpired fraction of a month shall
count as a whole month.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.420 POSTING A PERMIT AND RECEIPT.
   The written receipt for payment issued by the city and the permit issued by
the state shall be conspicuously posted at all times on the premises.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011) Penalty, see §
117.600
§ 117.430 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   Any private club or public place paying a fee under this subchapter shall be
open for inspection at all reasonable times by police officers of the city and
by the Department of Public Safety and its agents. Refusal to permit such
inspection shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011) Penalty, see §
117.600
§ 117.440 PREMISES LICENSED FOR SALE OF LIQUOR.
   This subchapter does not apply to any premises licensed for the sale of
intoxicating liquor.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.450 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   The provisions of §§
117.120 through
117.130 shall apply to all premises licensed under this subchapter, as if
hereinafter fully set forth.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 117.600 CIVIL PENALTY; ALL LIQUOR LICENCES.
   (A)   Penalty for noncompliance. In addition to any criminal penalties which
may be imposed by a court of law, the City Council may suspend a license for up
to 60 days, may revoke a license and/or may impose a civil fine on a licensee
not to exceed $2,000 for each violation on a finding that the license holder or
its employee has failed to comply with a statute, rule or ordinance relating to
alcoholic beverages, non- intoxicating malt liquor or wine. Conviction of a
violation in a court of law is not required in order for the Council to impose
the civil penalty.
   (B)   Minimum penalty. The purpose of this section is to establish a
standard by which the CityCouncil determines the civil fine, the length of
license suspensions and the propriety of revocations, and shall apply to all
premises licensed under this chapter. These penalties are presumed to be
appropriate for every case; however, the Council may deviate in an individual
case where the Council finds that there exist certain extenuating or
aggravating circumstances, making it more appropriate to deviate, such as, but
not limited to, a licensee's efforts in combination with the state or city to
prevent the sale of alcohol to minors or, in the converse, when a licensee has
a history of repeated violations of state or local liquor laws. When deviating
from these standards, the Council will provide written findings that support
the penalty selected. When a violation occurs, the staff shall provide
information to the City Council to either assess the presumptive penalty or
depart upward or downward based on extenuating or aggravating circumstances.
The staff shall notify the licensee of the information being considered and
acted upon by the City Council.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the following
violations will subject the licensee to the following administrative penalties:
Type of Violation 1st Violation 2nd Violation 3rd Violation 4th Violation
Type of         1st Violation   2nd Violation    3rd Violation    4th Violation
Violation
Sale of
alcoholic                       $1,000 and 1 day $2,000 and 5 day
beverage to a   $250            suspension       suspension       Revocation
person under
the age of 21
Sale of
alcoholic
beverage to an  $250            $1,000 and 1 day $2,000 and 5 day Revocation
obviously                       suspension       suspension
intoxicated
person
Failure of an
on-sale
licensee to
take reasonable
steps to
prevent a                       $1,000 and 1 day $2,000 and 5 day
person from     $250            suspension       suspension       Revocation
leaving the
premises with
an alcoholic
beverage (on-
sale allowing
off-sale)
Refusal to
allow city
inspectors or   $1,000 and 7    $2,000 and 14    Revocation       N/A
police          days suspension days suspension
admission to
premises
After hours
sale,
possession by a $1,000 and 7    $1,000 and 14
patron or       days suspension days suspension  Revocation       N/A
consumption of
alcoholic
beverages
Illegal         $1,000 and 7    $2,000 and 14
gambling on     days suspension days suspension  Revocation       N/A
premises
Sale of
alcoholic
beverages while 60 day          Revocation       N/A              N/A
license is      suspension
under
suspension
Sale of
intoxicating
liquor with     Revocation      N/A              N/A              N/A
only 3.2% malt
liquor license
Commission of a
felony related  Revocation      N/A              N/A              N/A
to licensed
activity
 
      (2)   Any prior violation that occurred more than 24 calendar months
immediately preceding the most current violation will not be considered in
determining successive violations.
      (3)   In addition to the administrative penalties identified above, the
city may in appropriate circumstances choose to not renew a license at the end
of its current term for any and all reasons allowed by law.
      (4)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council.
   (C)   Hearing and notice. If, after considering the staff's information, the
City Council proposes to suspend or revoke a license, the licensee shall be
provided written notice of the City Council's proposed action and shall be
given the opportunity to request a hearing on the proposed penalty by providing
the city a written notice requesting a hearing within ten days of the mailing
of the notice of the City Council's proposed action. The notice of the proposed
action of the City Council shall state the nature of the charges against the
licensee and the action the City Council proposes to take, shall inform the
licensee of the right to request a hearing prior to the action being final, and
shall inform the licensee of the date the City Council's proposed action will
be considered a final decision if a hearing is not requested. Any hearing, if
requested, will be conducted in accordance with M.S. § 340A.415 and §§ 14.57 to
14.69 of the Administrative Procedures Act ("APA"). If a hearing is requested,
the licensee shall be provided a hearing notice at least ten days prior to the
hearing, which shall state the date, time and place of the hearing and the
issues involved in the hearing. An independent hearing officer shall conduct
the hearing and shall make a report and recommendation to the City Council
pursuant to the provisions of the APA. The City Council shall consider the
independent hearing examiner's recommendation and issue its final decision on
the suspension or revocation.
      (1)   Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or revocation
of the license.
      (2)   Suspension or revocation shall occur within 60 days following a
violation for which the suspension or revocation is imposed.
      (3)   Suspensions will be applied as a starting point on a Saturday, and
move in a backwards manner through the weekdays until the full length of the
suspension is plotted.
(Ord. 707, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 710, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 749,
passed 1-19- 2016)
CHAPTER 118: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
   
118.01   Purpose and intent
   
118.02   Definitions
   
118.03   License
   
118.04   Fees
   
118.05   Basis for denial of license
   
118.06   Prohibited sales
   
118.07   [Reserved]
   
118.08   Responsibility
   
118.09   Compliance checks and inspections
   
118.10   Other prohibited acts
   
118.11   Exceptions and defenses
 
   
118.99   Violations and penalty
§ 118.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Because the city recognizes that sale of licensed products to persons under
the age of 21 violates both state and federal law and because studies, which
the city hereby accepts and adopts, have shown that most smokers begin smoking
before they have reached the age of 18 years, and that almost no one starts
smoking after age 25; and because marketing analysis, public health research,
and commercial tobacco industry documents reveal that tobacco companies have
used menthol, mint, fruit, candy, and flavors as a way to target youth and
young adults and that the presence of such flavors can make it more difficult
to quit; and because smoking has been shown to be the cause of several serious
health problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of
government; this chapter shall be intended to regulate the sale, possession and
use of licensed products for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing
laws, to protect youth and young adults against the serious effects associated
with the illegal use of licensed products, and to further the official public
policy of the state in regard to preventing young people from starting to smoke
as stated in M.S. § 144.391, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. 720, passed 1-3-2013; Am. Ord. 823, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 118.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD-RESISTANT PACKAGING. Packaging that meets the definition set forth in
Code of Federal Regulations, title 16, section 1700.15(b), as in effect on
January 1, 2015, and was tested in accordance with the method described in Code
of Federal Regulations, title 16, section 1700.20, as in effect on January 1,
2015.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying with the
requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall involve the use of
persons under the age of 21 who purchase or attempt to purchase licensed
products. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of government
for the purpose of enforcing appropriate federal, state or local laws and
regulations relating to licensed products.
   DELIVERY SALE. The sale of any licensed product to any person for personal
consumption and not for resale when the sale is conducted by any means other
than an in-person, over-the-counter sales transaction in a licensed retail
establishment. DELIVERY SALE includes but is not limited to the sale of any
licensed product when the sale is conducted by telephone, other voice
transmission, mail, the internet, or app-based service. DELIVERY SALE includes
delivery by licensees or third parties by any means, including curbside pick-
up.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens,
mods, tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor. ELECTRONIC
DELIVERY DEVICE includes any component part of a product, whether or not
marketed or sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE does not include any
nicotine cessation product that has been authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to be marketed and for sale as “drugs,” “devices,” or
“combination products,” as defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   INDOOR AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by
walls, doorways or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than 50% of
the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the perimeter of
the area. A WALL includes any retractable divider, garage door, or other
physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette, or any other licensed product that has been removed from its
packaging and sold individually.
   LICENSED PRODUCTS. The term that collectively refers to any tobacco,
tobacco-related device, electronic delivery device, or nicotine or lobelia
delivery product.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business that is operated out of a
kiosk, truck, van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter
and that is not a fixed address or other permanent type of structure licensed
for over-the-counter sales transactions.
   NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY DEVICES. Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, whether natural or
synthetic, or any part of such a product, that is not tobacco or an electronic
delivery device as defined in this section. NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY
PRODUCT does not include any nicotine cessation product that has been
authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to be marketed and for sale
as “drugs,” “devices,” or “combination products,” as defined in the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business licensed products are available
for sale to the general public. The phrase shall include, but not be limited
to, grocery stores, convenience stores and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of licensed products in any manner
where any person shall have access to the licensed products, without the
assistance or intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee. The
assistance or intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the
licensed product between the customer and the licensee or employee. The phrase
shall not include vending machines. SELF-SERVICE SALES are interpreted as being
any sale where there is not an actual physical exchange of the tobacco between
the clerk and the customer.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, hookah, or any other lighted or heated product
containing, made, or derived from nicotine, tobacco, marijuana, or other plant,
whether natural or synthetic, that is intended for inhalation. SMOKING also
includes carrying or using an activated electronic delivery device.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any product containing, made, or derived from
tobacco that is intended for human consumption, including but not limited to,
cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, fine cut or other chewing tobacco,
cheroots, stogies, perique, granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready-rubbed, and
other smoking tobacco, snuff flowers, cavendish, shorts, plug and twist
tobaccos, dipping tobaccos, refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweepings
of tobacco, and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf prepared in a manner as
to be suitable for chewing, sniffing, smoking or ingestion by any other means,
including dissolvable or absorbable products. TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS does
not include any nicotine cessation product that has been authorized by the
United States Food and Drug Administration to be marketed and for sale as
“drugs,” “devices,” or “combination products,” as defined in the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling
papers, ashtray or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used
with licensed products. TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES include components of tobacco-
related devices or tobacco products, which may be marketed or sold separately.
TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES may or may not contain tobacco.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses licensed products upon payment by any form by the person
seeking to purchase the licensed product.
     YOUTH-ORIENTED FACILITY. Any facility with residents, customers, visitors,
or inhabitants of which 25% or more are regularly under the age of 21 or that
primarily sells, rents, or offers services or products that are consumed or
used primarily by persons under the age of 21. YOUTH-ORIENTED FACILITY
includes, but is not limited to, schools, playgrounds, recreation centers, and
parks.
(Am. Ord. 720, passed 1-3-2013; Am. Ord. 747, passed 1-19-2016; Am. Ord. 823,
passed 11-21-2023)
§ 118.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall sell or offer to sell any licensed
products without first having obtained a license to do so from the city.
   (B)   Application. 
      (1)   An application for a license to sell licensed products shall be
made on a form provided by the city. The application shall contain the full
name of the applicant, the applicant's residential and business addresses and
telephone numbers, the name of the business for which the license is sought,
and any additional information the city deems necessary. When submitting an
application, the applicant must provide written consent to the city to perform
a criminal background check.
      (2)   If the City Manager shall determine that an application is
incomplete, the Manager shall return the application to the applicant with
notice of the information necessary to make the application complete.
      (3)   A criminal background check is required of the applicant prior to
the issuance of any new license, or renewal of any license, under this chapter.
The applicant’s information shall be referred to the Chief of Police or
designee for a criminal history investigation from the Minnesota Bureau of
Criminal Apprehension or other relevant agency. Following completion of the
investigation the Chief shall make a written recommendation and report to the
Council.
   (C)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it
may delay action for a reasonable period of time it deems necessary to complete
any investigation of the application or the applicant. If the City Council
shall approve the license, the City Manager shall issue the license to the
applicant. If the City Council denies the license, notice of the denial shall
be given to the applicant, along with notice of the applicant's right to appeal
the City Council's decision.
   (D)   Duration of license. Unless otherwise specified, a license shall be
valid for a year or the part of the year for which it is issued, and shall
expire on June 30.
   (E)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in §
118.99 .
   (F)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued.
   (G)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premise.
   (H)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days, but no more than 60 days, before the
expiration of the current license.
   (I)   Issuance as privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license
issued under this chapter shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute
right of the applicant, and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic
renewal of the license.
   (J)   Smoking. Smoking shall not be permitted and no person shall smoke
within the indoor area of any establishment with a retail tobacco license.
Smoking for the purposes of sampling licensed products is prohibited.
   (K)   Maximum number of licenses. The maximum number of licenses issued by
the city at any time is limited to seven. When the maximum number of licenses
has been issued, the city may place persons seeking licensure on a waiting list
and allow them to apply on a first-come, first-served basis, as licenses are
not renewed or are revoked. A new applicant who has purchased a business
location holding a valid city license will be entitled to first priority,
provided the new applicant meets all other application requirements in
accordance with this chapter.
   (L)   Proximity to youth-oriented facilities. No license will be granted to
any person for a retail establishment location that is within 750 feet of a
youth-oriented facility, as measured by the shortest line from the property
line of the space to be occupied by the proposed licensee to the nearest
property line of
a youth-oriented facility. This restriction does not apply to an existing
license holder who has been licensed to sell licensed products in that same
location for at least one year before the date this section was enacted into
law.
(Am. Ord. 720, passed 1-3-2013; Am. Ord. 747, passed 1-19-2016; Am. Ord. 823,
passed 11-21-2023; Am. Ord. 842, passed 6-3-2025) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.04 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be as
established from time to time by Council ordinance, as it may be amended from
time to time.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license under this
chapter include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 21 years.
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to licensed products.
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products revoked
within the preceding 12 months of the date of application.
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information.
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation from holding a license.
      (6)   The business for which the license is requested is a moveable place
of business. Only fixed-location retail establishments are eligible to be
licensed.
   (B)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 720, passed 1-3-2013; Am. Ord. 823, passed 11-21-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   No person shall sell or offer to sell any licensed product:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 21 years.
      (1)   Verification. Licensees must, by means of government-issued
photographic identification containing the bearer's date of birth, verify that
the purchaser is at least 21 years of age. Verification is not required for a
person over the age of 30. That the person appeared to be 30 years of age or
older does not constitute a defense to a violation of this division.
      (2)   Signage. Notice of the legal sales age, age verification
requirement, and possible penalties for underage sales must be posted
prominently and in plain view at all times at each location where licensed
products are offered for sale. The required signage, which will be provided to
the licensee by the city, must be posted in a manner that is clearly visible to
anyone who is or is considering making a purchase.
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine.
   (C)   By means of self-service display. All licensed products must be stored
behind the sales counter, in a locked case, in a storage unit, or in another
area not freely accessible to the general public.
   (D)   By means of delivery sales. All sales of licensed products must be
conducted in person, in a licensed retail establishment, in over-the-counter
sales transactions.
   (E)   By means of loosies as defined in §
118.02.
   (F)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled substances
except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or added as
part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the intention of
this provision to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes or other
tobacco products.
   (G)   Liquid packaging. No person shall sell or offer to sell any liquid,
whether or not such liquid contains nicotine, which is intended for human
consumption and use in an electronic delivery device, in packaging that is not
child-resistant. Upon request by the city, a licensee must provide a copy of
the certificate of compliance or full laboratory testing report for the
packaging used.
   (H)   By any other means, to any other person, in any other manner or form
prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation.
(Am. Ord. 720, passed 1-3-2013; Am. Ord. 823, passed 11-21-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.07 [RESERVED].
§ 118.08 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of licensed products on the licensed
premises, and the sale of an item by an employee shall be considered a sale by
the license holder. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
the city from also subjecting the clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate
under this chapter, state or federal law, or other applicable law or
regulation.
(Am. Ord. 720, passed 1-3-2013; Am. Ord. 823, passed 11-21-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.09 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All licensed premises must be open to inspection by authorized city
officials or their designees during regular business hours.
   (B)   From time to time, but at least once per year, the city will conduct
compliance checks to ensure compliance with all provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   In accordance with state law, the city will conduct a compliance check
that involves the participation of a person at least 17 years of age, but under
the age of 21 to enter the licensed premises to attempt to purchase licensed
products. Prior written consent from a parent or guardian is required for any
person under the age of 18 to participate in a compliance check. Persons used
for the purpose of compliance checks will be supervised by law enforcement or
other designated personnel.
(Am. Ord. 720, passed 1-3-2013; Am. Ord. 823, passed 11-21-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.10 OTHER PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts a are an administrative
violation of this chapter.
   (A)   Prohibited furnishing procurement. It is a violation of this chapter
for any person 21 years of age or older to purchase or otherwise obtain any
licensed product on behalf of a person under the age of 21. It is also a
violation for any person 21 years of age and older to coerce or attempt to
coerce a person under the age of 21 to purchase or attempt to purchase any
licensed product.
   (B)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any person to use any form of a false identification, whether the
identification is that of another person or one on which the age of the person
has been modified or tampered with to represent an age older than the actual
age of the person.
(Am. Ord. 720, passed 1-3-2013; Am. Ord. 823, passed 11-21-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.11 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   (A)   Religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremonies or practices. Nothing in
this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco or tobacco-related devices
to any person as part of a lawfully recognized religious, spiritual or cultural
ceremony.
   (B)   Reasonable reliance. It shall be an affirmative defense to the
violation of this chapter for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of
age as described by state law.
(Am. Ord. 720, passed 1-3-2013; Am. Ord. 823, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 118.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged
violator shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets
forth the alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his
or her right to be heard on the accusation.
      (2)   Hearings. If a person accused of violating this chapter so
requests, a hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be
published and provided to the accused violator.
      (3)   Hearing Officer. The City Manager may be the hearing officer; or
the City Manager may appoint a neutral third party to serve as a hearing
officer; or the City Council may appoint another city official to serve as the
hearing officer.
      (4)   Decision. If the hearing officer determines that a violation of
this chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officer’s reasons
for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under division (B) of
this section, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided
to the accused violator. Likewise, if the hearing officer finds that no
violation occurred or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, those
findings shall be recorded and a copy provided to the acquitted accused
violator.
      (5)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter.
      (6)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   Licensees. Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or
whose employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged an
administrative fine as follows:
         (a)   First violation: $500;
         (b)   Second violation within a 36-month period of the first
violation: $750;
         (c)   Third offense within a 36-month period: $1,000 and a minimum of
a seven-day suspension with possible revocation;
         (d)   Fourth violation within a 36-month period: $1,000 and a minimum
30-day suspension and possible revocation.
      (2)   Other individuals. Other individuals, other than persons under the
age of 21 regulated by division (B)(3) of this section, found to be in
violation of this chapter shall be charged an administrative fee of $50.
      (3)   Persons under the age of 21. Persons under the age of 21 who use a
false identification to purchase or attempt to purchase licensed products may
only be subject to non-criminal, non-monetary civil penalties or remedies such
as tobacco-related education classes, diversion programs, community services,
or another non-monetary, civil penalty that the city determines to be
appropriate. The City Council will consult with educators, parents, guardians,
persons under the age of 21, public health officials, court personnel, and
other interested parties to determine an appropriate remedy for persons under
the age of 21 in the city in the best interest of the underage person. The
remedies for persons under 21 who use a false identification to purchase or
attempt to purchase licensed products may be established by ordinance and
amended from time to time.
      (4)   Misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from
seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of this chapter.
      (5)   Statutory penalties. If the administrative penalties authorized to
be imposed by M.S. § 461.12, as it may be amended from time to time, differ
from those established in this section, then the higher or more stringent
penalties shall prevail.
(Am. Ord. 720, passed 1-3-2013; Am. Ord. 823, passed 11-21-2023)
CHAPTER 119: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
119.03   Licensing; exemptions; fee
   
119.04   License ineligibility
   
119.05   License suspension and revocation
   
119.06   License transferability
   
119.07   Registration
   
119.08   Prohibited activities; location
   
119.09   Exclusion by placard
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to- house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to- street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. The term peddler shall mean the same as the term
hawker.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to- house, door-to-door, business-
to-business, street-to- street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term “canvasser.”
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty building for
the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell,
and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property
and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for more than
90 consecutive days. The location of transient merchants shall be regulated by
the zoning regulations.
§ 119.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any  person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by
the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
§ 119.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS; FEE.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S.
Chapter 329 as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are still required to register pursuant to §
119.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for a
license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the City Manager. All applications shall be signed by the
applicant. All applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   Applicant’s full legal name.
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers.
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like).
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence.
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence.
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent.
      (7)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business (if any).
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant.
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license.
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license.
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive days).
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business.
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses.
      (14)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant.
      (15)   Proof of any requested county license.
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant.
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council.
      (19)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification.
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the ordinance establishing fees and
charges, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Manager, within two regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Manager
determines that the application is incomplete, the City Manager must inform the
applicant of the required necessary information that is missing. If the
application is complete, the City Manager must order any investigation,
including background checks, necessary to verify the information provided with
the application. Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete
application the City Manager must issue the license unless there exist grounds
for denying the license under §
119.04, in which case the City Manager must deny the license. If the City
Manager denies the license, the applicant must be notified in writing of the
decision, the reason for denial, and of the applicant’s right to appeal the
denial by requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of rejection, a public
hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal within
20 days of the date of the request. The decision of the City Council following
the public hearing can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of
Appeals for a Writ of Certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted under
this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on the same property as the person resides.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person’s
State or Federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press,
religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person’s
exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fundraisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
      (4)   Fee. The City Council shall establish an annual fee by ordinance
that shall not be prorated.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 119.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license.
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person’s
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant.
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Attorney General’s Office, or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints
filed against the applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 119.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Manager for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statements on the application
form.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under §
119.04.
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Manager within ten regular
business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with
the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall
be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be
scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Manager shall notify the licensee of the
decision of the City Council.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Manager, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 119.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 119.07 REGISTRATION.
   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of
this chapter under §
119.03, shall be required to register with the city. Persons engaging in door-
to-door advocacy shall not be required to register. The term  DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering as vehicles for
the dissemination of religious, political and other ideas. Registration shall
be made on the same form required for a license application, but no fee shall
be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City
Manager shall issue to the registrant a Certificate of Registration as proof of
the registration. Certificates of Registration shall be non-transferable.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 119.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES; LOCATION.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public.
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person.
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating or abusive.
   (H)   Transient merchants shall be prohibited except in the B2 and B3 Zoning
Districts.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 119.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors or
Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants
Prohibited,” or other comparable statement. No person other than the property
owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign or
placard under this section.
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 120: ADULT USE
Section
   
120.01   Purpose
   
120.02   Findings
   
120.03   Definitions
   
120.04   Exceptions
   
120.05   License required
   
120.06   Persons ineligible
   
120.07   Places ineligible
   
120.08   License application
   
120.09   Fees
   
120.10   Granting of licenses
   
120.11   Conditions of license
   
120.12   Restrictions and regulations
   
120.13   Suspensions and revocation of license
 
   
120.99   Penalty
   
Appendix:   Resolution adopting the findings of the Report of the Attorney
General’s Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses
§ 120.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prescribe licensing requirements for
sexually oriented businesses to protect the public health, safety, and welfare
and to prevent criminal activity and the spread of sexually- transmitted
diseases.
§ 120.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council makes the following findings regarding the effect sexually
oriented businesses have on the character of the city’s neighborhoods. In
making these findings, the City Council accepts the recommendations and
conclusions of the Report of the Attorney General’s Working Group on the
Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses dated June 6, 1989, a copy of which
is on file in the office of the City Clerk. This chapter shall have no force
and effect until the City Council accepts these recommendations by resolution
of a majority of its members, using the model resolution contained in the
Appendix of this chapter.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses can contribute to an increase in criminal
activity in the area in which such businesses are located, increasing the
demands on city crime-prevention programs and law enforcement services.
   (B)   Sexually oriented businesses can be used as fronts for prostitution
and other criminal activity. The experience of other cities indicates that
proper management and operation of such businesses can minimize this risk.
   (C)   Sexually oriented businesses can increase the risk of exposure to
communicable diseases, including Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS),
for which there is currently no cure. Experiences of other cities indicate that
such businesses can facilitate the spread of communicable diseases by virtue of
the design and use of the premises, endangering not only the patrons of such
establishments but also the general public.
   (D)   Sexually oriented businesses can cause or contribute to public health
problems by the presence of live adult entertainment in conjunction with food
and/or drink on the same premises.
   (E)   A licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed in this chapter can
facilitate the enforcement of the city’s “anti-blight” regulations, as set
forth in
Chapter 153 of this code, and can aid in monitoring sexually oriented
businesses for adverse secondary effects on the community.
   (F)   The risk of criminal activity and/or public health problems can be
minimized through a licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed in this
chapter.
§ 120.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms have the following meanings when used in this
chapter.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   A business that meets any of the following criteria, measured on a
daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly basis:
         (a)   Has more than 25% of its inventory, stock-in-trade, or publicly
displayed merchandise in sexually oriented materials;
         (b)   Devotes more than 25% of its floor area (not including
storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements, or any portion of the business
not open to the public) to sexually oriented materials; or
         (c)   Derives more than 25% of its gross revenues from sexually
oriented materials; or
      (2)   A business that engages for any length of time in a sexually
oriented use as defined in this section or any other use that has an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATERIALS. Visual, printed, or aural materials, and other
objects or devices, that:
      (1)   Contain, depict, simulate or describe specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Are marketed for use in conjunction with, or are primarily used
only with or during specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Are designed for sexual stimulation.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE. Any of the following activities and businesses, even
if the activity exists for only a short-time:
      (1)   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business that
provides the service of applying paint, ink, or other substance, whether
transparent or non-transparent, to the body of a patron when the person is
nude.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment or business used for the barter,
rental, or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audiotape, videotape, movies, or motion picture film if it meets the
criteria established in the definition of “sexually oriented business,” as
defined in this section.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A business or establishment that provides dancing or
other live entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on:
         (a)   The depiction of nudity, specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   The presentation, display, or depiction of matter that seeks to
evoke, arouse, or excite sexual or erotic feelings or desire.
      (4)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A business or establishment that
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (5)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A business or establishment that
provides the services of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (6)   ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club that is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (7)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel that presents material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (8)   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR/HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
that provides massage services distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (9)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business or establishment with
a capacity of less than 50 persons that, as a prevailing practice, presents on-
premises viewing of movies, motion pictures, or other material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (10)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. A business or establishment that provides
live models who, with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual
gratification, engage in specified sexual activities or display specified
anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted.
      (11)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines,  projectors, or other image-producing devices are used to show images
to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (12)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A motion picture theater with a
capacity of 50 or more persons that, as a prevailing practice, presents
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
      (13)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. An establishment or business that has a
variety of items for sale if it meets the criteria established in division (1)
of the definition of “sexually oriented business”defined in this section.
      (14)   ADULT SAUNA. A sauna that excludes minors by reason of age, and
that provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation, or reducing, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (15)   ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, if the building or
portion of a building restricts minors by reason of age and if the service
provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (16)   ADULT INTERNET SITE/FACILITY.  A building or portion of a building
used for providing internet access for the pleasure of providing internet web
site access for adult material.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
area, buttocks, anus, or female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a state of sexual arousal, whether or not
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Actual or simulated: sexual intercourse; oral copulation; anal
intercourse; oral-anal copulation; bestiality; direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals; flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship; the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship; anilingus; coprophagy; coprophilia; cunnilingus; fellatio;
necrophilia; pedophilia; piquerism or zooerastia;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus
or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks, or female breasts;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, who
are clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and engaged in the
flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other physical restraint of any
person;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation or vaginal or anal
irrigation.
§ 120.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not regulate the following:
   (A)   Material with significant literary content or social commentary;
   (B)   A business where sexually oriented materials are sold, bartered,
distributed, leased, furnished, or otherwise provided for off-site use or
entertainment, if the sexually oriented material on each item is blocked from
view by an opaque cover as required under M.S. § 617.293, as it may be amended
from time to time, and each item is in an area accessible only by an employee
of the business;
   (C)   A person or organization exempted under M.S. § 617.295, as it may be
amended from time to time;
   (D)   Activity regulated under M.S. § 617.251, as it may be amended from
time to time;
   (E)   Displaying works of art showing specified anatomical areas, so long as
no sexually oriented materials are for sale, and the business does not have a
liquor license; and
   (F)   Movies rated G, PG, PG-13, NC-17 or R.
§ 120.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person may own or operate a sexually oriented business within the city
unless the person is currently licensed under this chapter.
Penalty, see § 120.99
§ 120.06 PERSONS INELIGIBLE.
   No license may be issued to a person who:
   (A)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien;
   (B)   Is a minor at the time the application is filed;
   (C)   Has been convicted of a crime directly related to the licensed
occupation and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation
and present fitness to perform the duties of the owner, operator or manager of
a sexually oriented business under M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, or a person not of good moral character and repute;
   (D)   Holds a liquor license under Minnesota Basic Code Chapter 112.
   (E)   In the judgment of the licensing authority, is not the real party in
interest or beneficial owner of the business operated under the license;
   (F)   Has had a license for a sexually oriented business or similar business
revoked anywhere within five years of the license application; or
   (G)   In the case of an individual, is not a resident of the state; in the
case of a partnership, the managing partner is not a resident of the state; or
in the case of a corporation, the manager is not a resident of the state. The
required residency must be established by the time the license is issued and
maintained throughout the existence of the license and all renewals. The time
for establishing residency may, for good cause, be extended by the licensing
authority.
Penalty, see § 120.99
§ 120.07 PLACES INELIGIBLE.
   No license may be issued for:
   (A)   A place or a business ineligible for a license under city ordinance or
state law;
   (B)   Operation in a zoning district where the business is not allowed
pursuant to Chapter 154 of this code;
   (C)   A place or business that is currently licensed as a tattoo
establishment, pawnshop, massage business or establishment that sells alcoholic
beverages; or
   (D)   Operation on a premises on which taxes, assessments or other financial
claims of the city or other government agency are delinquent and unpaid, unless
the non-payment is not under the control of the applicant.
Penalty, see § 120.99
§ 120.08 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a sexually oriented business license under this
chapter must be made on a form supplied by the city and must provide the
following information:
      (1)   The business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate;
      (2)   The location of the business premises;
      (3)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed, including a
map of the area for which the license is sought, showing dimensions, locations
of buildings, street access and parking facilities;
      (4)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid,
the years and amounts that are unpaid;
      (5)   Whether the applicant is the owner and operator of the business and
if not, who is;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name other
than his or her true name, and if so, what was the name or names, and
information concerning dates and places where used;
      (7)   Whether the applicant is married or single. If married, the true
name, place and date of birth and street address of applicant’s spouse;
      (8)   Street address at which the applicant and spouse have lived during
the preceding ten years;
      (9)   Kind, name and location of every business or occupation the
applicant and spouse have been engaged in during the preceding ten years;
      (10)   Names and addresses of the applicant’s and spouse’s employers and
partners, if any, for the preceding ten years;
      (11)   Whether the applicant or spouse has ever been convicted of a
violation of a state law or local ordinance, other than a non-alcohol related
traffic offense. If so, the applicant must furnish information as to the time,
place and offense for which convictions were had;
      (12)   Whether the applicant or spouse has ever been engaged as an
employee or in operating a sexually oriented business, massage business, or
other business of a similar nature. If so, the applicant must furnish
information as to the time, place and length of time;
      (13)   Whether the applicant has ever been in military service. If so,
the applicant must, upon request, exhibit all discharges;
      (14)   If the applicant is a partnership, the name and address of all
partners and all information concerning each partner as is required of a single
applicant as above. A managing partner or partners must be designated. The
interest of each partner or partners in the business must be submitted with the
application and, if the partnership is required to file a certificate as to
trade name under the provisions of M.S. Chapter 333, as it may be amended from
time to time, a copy of the certificate must be attached to the application;
      (15)   If the applicant is a corporation or other organization, the
applicant must submit the following:
         (a)   Name, and if incorporated, the state of incorporation;
         (b)   Names and addresses of all officers;
         (c)   The name of the manager or proprietor or other agent in charge
of, or to be in charge of the premises to be licensed, giving all information
about said person as is required in the case of a single applicant; and
         (d)   A list of all persons who, single or together with their spouse,
own or control an interest in said corporation or association in excess of 5%
or who are officers of said corporation or association, together with their
addresses and all information as is required for a single applicant.
      (16)   The amount of the investment that the applicant has in the
business, land, building, premises, fixtures, furniture or stock-in-trade, and
proof of the source of the money;
      (17)   A list of responsible persons, including the names of owners,
managers and assistant managers, who may be notified or contacted by state or
city employees in case of emergency. These persons must be residents of the
state.
      (18)   Whether the applicant holds a current license for a sexually
oriented business or similar business from another governmental unit;
      (19)   Whether the applicant has ever been denied a license for a
sexually oriented business or similar business from another governmental unit;
and
      (20)   Other information that the city deems appropriate.
   (B)   No person may make a false statement or material omission in a license
application or investigation. A false statement or material omission is grounds
for denial, suspension or revocation of a license.
   (C)   Each licensee has the continuing duty to properly notify the City
Manager of a change in the information or facts required to be furnished on the
application for a license. This duty continues throughout the period of the
license. Failure to comply with this section will constitute cause for
revocation or suspension of the license.
   (D)   The application for the renewal of an existing license must be made at
least 90 days prior to the date of the expiration of the license and must be
made on the form which the city provides.
Penalty, see § 120.99
§ 120.09 FEES.
   (A)   An applicant for a license must pay to the city the investigation fee
as established from time to time by Council ordinance, as it may be amended
from time to time. This fee will be for the purpose of conducting a preliminary
background and financial investigation of the applicant. If the city believes
that the public interest so warrants, it may require a similar investigation at
the time of renewal of a license. If an investigation is ordered at the time of
license renewal, the applicant must pay the fee specified above, except that
the fee will be the smaller of the stated dollar amount or the actual cost of
the investigation. There will be no refund of the investigation fee after the
investigation has begun.
   (B)   The annual fees for a license are as established from time to time by
Council ordinance, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Each license expires on December 31 of the year in which it is issued.
Fees for licenses issued during the license year will be prorated according to
the number of months remaining in the year. For this purpose an unexpired
fraction of a month will be counted as a whole month having elapsed.
   (D)   No refund of a fee will be made except as authorized by ordinance.
§ 120.10 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   No license may be issued until the Police Department has conducted an
investigation of the representations set forth in the application, the
applicant’s moral character, and the applicant’s financial status. All
applicants must cooperate this investigation.
   (B)   No license, except for a renewed license, may be issued for a sexually
oriented business until the Council has held a public hearing. Notice of the
hearing must be made in the same manner as that specified in
Chapter 154 of this code, for a zoning ordinance amendment affecting district
boundaries. The Council must grant the license unless the applicant or the
location does not meet the requirements of the city code, the application was
incomplete, or the application contained false information or a material
omission. If the application is denied, the city must notify the applicant with
the reason(s) stated for denial. Notification must be sent certified, United
States mail, return receipt requested, to the address provided on the license
application. If the Council fails to act on the application within 45 days
after receipt of a complete application, the application will be deemed
approved. An applicant wishing to appeal the action of the City Council may
seek a writ of certiorari before the Minnesota Court of Appeals.
   (C)   (1)   The City Council may issue a license before an investigation,
notice and public hearing for an applicant who:
         (a)   Had a license within the previous five years for the
establishment that is specified in the application and that is continuing to
operate under a license;
         (b)   Wishes to resume operation of the business without sufficient
time, through no fault of his or her own, to meet the normal procedural
requirements;
         (c)   Had no criminal license convictions, or license suspensions or
revocations during the prior licensed period; and
         (d)   Otherwise qualifies and meets the requirements for a license.
      (2)   In this situation, the City Council may immediately issue an
interim license to the applicant for a period of no longer than 90 days. The
applicant must then proceed through the specified requirements for an
investigation, notice, and public hearing. At the public hearing the Council
will decide whether the license should continue in effect or be revoked. The
applicant has no greater right to continuation of the license than he or she
would have had to issuance of a new license following the normal procedure
without the interim license.
   (D)   A license will be issued only to the applicant and for the premises
described in the application. No license may be transferred to another person
or place without application in the same manner as an application for a new
license. Transfer of 25% or more of the stock of a corporation or of a
controlling interest of it, whichever is less, will be deemed a transfer of the
license. If the licensee is a corporation that is wholly owned by another
corporation, the same provisions about the transfer of a stock or a controlling
interest will apply to that parent corporation, any second parent corporation
that wholly owns the parent corporation, and all other similarly situated
parent corporations up through the chain of ownership. Transfer of this amount
of stock without prior Council approval is a ground for revocation or
suspension of the license. In addition, each day the licensee operates under
the license after a transfer has taken place without obtaining Council approval
will be a separate violation of this chapter.
   (E)   In the case of the death of a licensee, the personal representative of
a licensee may continue operation of the business for not more than 90 days
after the licensee’s death.
§ 120.11 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license is subject to the conditions in this section, all other
provisions of this chapter, and of other applicable regulations, ordinances or
state laws.
   (B)   A licensee is responsible for the conduct of his or her place of
business and the conditions of order in it. The act of an employee of the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
is liable for all penalties provided by this chapter equally with the employee,
except criminal penalties.
   (C)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises for
which it is used.
Penalty, see § 120.99
§ 120.12 RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   A sexually oriented business is subject to the following restrictions and
regulations:
   (A)   No owner, manager or employee may allow sexually oriented materials or
entertainment to be visible or perceivable in any manner, including aurally, at
any time from outside of the business.
   (B)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a person under the age of 18
to enter the business.
   (C)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a person under the age of 18
to have access to sexually oriented materials, whether by sight, purchase,
touch or other means.
   (D)   No owner or manager may employ a person under the age of 18 on the
licensed premises.
   (E)   No owner, manager, or employee may have been convicted of a sex crime,
as identified in M.S. §§ 609.293 to 609.352, 609.746 to 609.749, 609.79 or
518B.01, as they may be amended from time to time, or related statute dealing
with sexual assault, sexual conduct, harassment, obscenity, or domestic abuse
within the past five years.
   (F)   No business may exceed 10,000 square feet in gross floor area.
   (G)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a patron, employee, or other
person on the premises to physically contact, in public view, a specified
anatomical area of himself or herself or of another person, except that a live
performer may touch himself or herself.
   (H)   A live performer must remain at all times a minimum distance of ten
feet from members of the audience, and must perform on a platform intended for
that purpose, that must be raised at least two feet from the level of the floor
on which the audience is located. No performer may solicit or accept money, a
tip, or other item from a member of the audience.
   (I)   No business may have booths, stalls, partitioned portions of a room,
or individual rooms, except as follows:
      (1)   Restrooms are allowed as long as they are no larger than reasonably
necessary to serve the purposes of a restroom, no other activities are provided
or allowed in the rooms, and there are no chairs, benches, or reclining
surfaces in the rooms; and
      (2)   Storage rooms and private offices are allowed, if the storage rooms
and offices are used solely for running the business and no person other than
the owner, manager and employees is allowed in them.
   (J)   A licensee must not be open for business to the public:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through
Saturday; and
      (2)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sundays.
Penalty, see § 120.99
§ 120.13 SUSPENSIONS AND REVOCATIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Delinquent taxes. The City Council may suspend or revoke a license
issued under this chapter for operation on a premises on which real estate
taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city or of the state are
due, delinquent, or unpaid, unless the non-payment is not under the control of
the licensee. If an action has been commenced under M.S. Chapter 278, as it may
be amended from time to time, questioning the amount or validity of taxes, the
Council may on application by the licensee waive strict compliance with this
provision; no waiver may be granted, however, for taxes, or a portion of them,
that remain unpaid for a period exceeding one year after becoming due, unless
the one-year period is extended through no fault of the licensee.
   (B)   Violations. 
      (1)   The Council may either suspend for up to 60 days or revoke a
license for a violation upon a finding that the licensee or an agent or
employee of the licensee has failed to comply with an applicable statute,
regulation or ordinance relating to the subject matter of this chapter or
violated the statutes in division (B)(2) of this section. No suspension or
revocation will take effect until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity
for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as they may be amended from
time to time, with the exception of the suspension provided for in division (B)
(2) of this section.
      (2)   Conviction of a sex crime, as identified in M.S. §§ 609.293 to
609.352, 609.746 to 609.749, 609.79 or 518B.01, as they may be amended from
time to time, or related statute dealing with sexual assault, sexual conduct,
harassment, obscenity or domestic abuse by the licensee will result in the
immediate suspension pending a hearing on revocation of a license issued under
this chapter.
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided by state law, a person violating a provision of
this chapter is subject to the penalties established in §
10.99. A fine or sentence imposed does not affect the right of the city to
suspend or revoke the license of the licensee as the Council deems appropriate.
APPENDIX
RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FINDINGS OF THE REPORT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL’S
WORKING GROUP ON
THE REGULATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   WHEREAS because of its small size, the city lacks the resources to
investigate and research the impact sexually oriented businesses would have on
the character of the city’s neighborhoods; and
   WHEREAS the city intends to rely on the Report of the Attorney General’s
Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses, dated June 6,
1989, which is included as Appendix II to Chapter 119 of the Minnesota Basic
Code, as a basis for regulating sexually oriented businesses in this city; and
   WHEREAS the members of the City Council have reviewed this Report;
   NOW THEREFORE, the City Council of this City hereby accepts the
recommendations and conclusions of this Report and adopts the recommendations
and conclusions by reference of the Report of the Attorney General’s Working
Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses, dated June 6, 1989;
and by passage of this resolution implements the provisions of Minnesota Basic
Code Chapters 119 and 153.
Signed:                                                 
      Mayor
Attest:                                                 
      City Manager
   Note: If this resolution is being adopted only to implement the provisions
of Minnesota Basic Code § 150.05, then the words “and by passage of this
resolution implements the provisions of Minnesota Basic Code Chapters 119 and
153” in the last paragraph above should be deleted from the resolution.
CHAPTER 121: GAS STATIONS
Section
   
121.01   Regulation
   
121.02   License required; definition
   
121.03   Fee
   
121.04   Permit
   
121.05   Inspection
   
121.06   Transfer
   
121.07   Business hours
§ 121.01 REGULATION.
   In order to safeguard the public against fire, explosion or environmental
contamination, the city shall regulate and license gas stations.
(Ord. 646, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 121.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of keeping, maintaining or
operating any gas station in North Saint Paul without a license.
   (B)   A GAS STATION means and includes any place, building, pump or device
maintained and used on private premises or upon any public place for the main
purpose of selling or dispensing gasoline, oil or any automotive fuel for use
in motor vehicles of any kind.
(Ord. 646, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 121.03 FEE.
   The fees required for licenses shall be established by ordinance and may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 646, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 121.04 PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to install, operate
or maintain any curb pump or other gasoline dispensing device on any private or
other public property within the city; without first securing a permit for the
installation, maintenance and operation of such facilities in any public
highway and without the portion thereof designed for vehicular traffic, except
in a district classified as residential by virtue of the zoning code, when
facilities shall be installed, maintained and operated exclusively for the
supplying of gasoline not for public sale, but for private use in and upon the
abutting premises; provided, that there be compliance with all other codes.
(Ord. 646, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 121.05 INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to inspect all gas stations at
various and reasonable times for the purpose of ascertaining whether the
provisions of all ordinances and laws pertaining to precaution against damage
from fire and explosion have been complied with in the construction, operation
and maintenance of gas stations, and to enforce the same. Inspection may also
be made at any reasonable time for the purpose of ascertaining whether
construction, remodeling or repairs have been accomplished in accord with plans
or specifications required to be filed with the city.
(Ord. 646, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 121.06 TRANSFER.
   Licenses shall not be transferrable.
(Ord. 646, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 121.07 BUSINESS HOURS.
   Where a reasonable basis is found by the Council to exist and to protect the
adjacent property and the public peace, health and safety, the Council, upon
issuing a new license or renewing a license, may impose as a condition on the
license a limitation as to the hours when the business may remain open.
(Ord. 646, passed 8-19-2003)
CHAPTER 122: SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS
Section
   
122.01   Purpose and intent
   
122.02   Definitions
   
122.03   Permit required
   
122.04   Requirements for issuance of a permit
   
122.05   Application procedures
   
122.06   Fees
   
122.07   Granting a permit
   
122.08   Denial of permit
   
122.09   Transferability
   
122.10   Enforcement and penalties
   
122.11   Revocation of permit
§ 122.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the orderly, compatible and safe
use of property for temporary special events and to assure adequate provision
of parking, traffic, sanitary facilities, utilities, peace and tranquility of
residential neighborhoods and safety services.
(Ord. 668, passed 5-6-08)
§ 122.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, society or
group seeking and/or receiving a special event permit from the city.
   OUTDOOR. Activity conducted outside of a permanent structure or building.
   PERMIT. A permit issued by the city to allow a special event.
   PERSON. Any person, association, partnership, firm, business trust,
corporation or company.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any temporary, outdoor privately-sponsored event open to the
general public and held on public or privately owned property. SPECIAL EVENT
shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Any permanent place of worship, stadium, athletic field, arena,
theatre, auditorium, or fairs conducted pursuant to M.S. Chapter 38.
      (2)   Special events or activities permitted or permitted by other state
laws or regulations of the City of North St. Paul, including publicly-sponsored
activities in the local park system and any other established special event
operating prior to adoption of this chapter.
      (3)   Family gatherings, including family reunions, graduation parties,
baptisms, confirmations, weddings, and the like.
      (4)   Garage sales.
      (5)   Events such as but not limited to National Night-Out established
through the City of North St. Paul.
(Ord. 668, passed 5-6-08)
§ 122.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person on or after the effective date of this chapter shall conduct or
allow to be conducted any special event as defined in this chapter without
first obtaining a special event permit.
(Ord. 668, passed 5-6-08)
§ 122.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE OF A PERMIT.
   The following standards shall apply to all special events:
   (A)   Maximum number of people. The permittee shall not sell tickets to nor
permit attendance at the permit location of more than the maximum number of
people stated in the special event permit.
   (B)   Sound equipment. Sound producing equipment, including but not limited
to public address systems, radios, phonographs, musical instruments and other
recording devices, shall not be operation on the premises of the special event
so as to be unreasonably loud or be a nuisance or disturbance to the peace and
tranquility of the citizens of North St. Paul.
   (C)   Sanitary facilities. In accordance with Minnesota State Board of
Health regulations and standards and local specifications, adequate sanitary
facilities must be provided which are sufficient to accommodate the projected
number of persons expected to attend the event.
   (D)   Security. The permittee shall employ at his or her own expense such
security personnel as are necessary and sufficient to provide for the adequate
security and protection of the maximum number of persons in attendance at the
special event and for the preservation of order and protection of property in
and around the event site. No permit shall be issued unless the city’s Chief of
Police is satisfied that such necessary and sufficient security personnel will
be provided by the permittee for the duration of the event.
   (E)   Food service. If food service is made available on the premises, it
shall be delivered only through concessions permitted by the Ramsey County
Health Department. If any of the concessions will be mobile food vendors, as
defined in Chapter 127, the permittee must ensure that the mobile food vendors
have or obtain a mobile food vendor license valid for the special event.
   (F)   Fire protection. The permittee shall, at his or her own expense, take
adequate steps to ensure fire protection as determined by the City of North St.
Paul Fire Chief.
   (G)   Duration of special event. The permittee shall operate the special
event only on those days and during the hours specified on the permit.
   (H)   Cleanup plan. The special event applicant is responsible for clean up.
Any clean up required by the city may be charged to the applicant. Any city
service that requires overtime will be at the expense of the applicant.
   (I)   Waiver. The City Council may grant a waiver from the requirements of
this chapter in any particular case where the applicant can show that strict
compliance with this chapter would cause exceptional and undue hardship by
reason of the nature of the special event or by reason of the fact that the
circumstances make the requirement of this chapter unnecessary. Such waiver
must be granted without detriment to the public health, safety or welfare and
without impairing the intent and purpose of these regulations.
   (J)   Insurance. Before the issuance of a permit, the permittee shall obtain
public liability insurance and property damage insurance with limits determined
by the City Manager. Such insurance shall remain in full force and effect in
the specified amounts for the duration of the permit. Evidence of insurance
shall include an endorsement to the effect that the insurance company will
notify the City Clerk in writing at least ten days before the expiration or
cancellation of the insurance.
   (K)   Miscellaneous. Prior to the issuance of a permit, the City Council may
impose any other conditions reasonably calculated to protect the health, safety
and welfare of persons attendant or of the citizens of the City of North St.
Paul.
(Ord. 668, passed 5-6-08; Am. Ord. 840, passed 4-15-2025)
§ 122.05 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   A written application for a special event permit shall be filed on forms
provided by the city with the City Manager not less than 30 days before the
date proposed for holding the special event. The written application shall be
signed by the person, persons, or parties conducting the event and shall be
accompanied by the fee payable hereunder. Upon submission of an application for
a special event permit, City Staff will review the request and advise the
applicant of the need for additional information, if any.
(Ord. 668, passed 5-6-08)
§ 122.06 FEES.
   The fee for a special event license shall be as established by the City
Council.
(Ord. 668, passed 5-6-08)
§ 122.07 GRANTING A PERMIT.
   The City Council, in its sole discretion, reserves the right to review and
determine whether or not a request for a special event and/or street closing is
acceptable. It is the stated purpose of the City Council that all such special
events and/or street closing shall be for family-friendly activities only.
Special event activities must be inclusive of events and activities for both
adults and children. In the event the City Council determines the activity does
not meet these criteria, such application shall be denied.
(Ord. 668, passed 5-6-08)
§ 122.08 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The City Council shall have the right to deny the permit if, in the judgment
of the City Council, the granting of a license would adversely affect the
safety, health and welfare of the citizens of North St. Paul. The applicant
shall be notified of such denial and may appear before the City Council to
appeal such denial.
(Ord. 668, passed 5-6-08)
§ 122.09 TRANSFERABILITY.
   No permit granted under this chapter shall be transferred to any other
person or place without consent of the City Council, upon written application
made therefore.
(Ord. 668, passed 5-6-08)
§ 122.10 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The Police Department and other such officers, employees, or agents as
the City Council or City Manager may designate, shall enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   The holding of a special event in violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated as such.
   (C)   Any person violation any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to the penalties set forth in
Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. 668, passed 5-6-08)
§ 122.11 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The permit for a special event may be revoked by the City Council at any
time if any of the conditions necessary for the issuing of or contained in the
license are not complied with or if any of the provisions of this chapter are
violated.
(Ord. 668, passed 5-6-08)
CHAPTER 123: BLOCK PARTIES
Section
   
123.01   Purpose
   
123.02   Definition
   
123.03   Permit required
   
123.04   Manner of making application
   
123.05   Administrative rules
   
123.06   Block party fees
   
123.07   Application review
   
123.08   Notice of permit issuance
   
123.09   Revocation of permit
§ 123.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to set forth regulations as required to
facilitate the suitable and orderly use and enjoyment of temporary closed
residential city streets, or portions thereof, during organized “block party”
activities.
(Ord. 669, passed 5-6-08)
§ 123.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK PARTY. A temporary gathering of people held on a barricaded portion of
a public residential street within the city.
(Ord. 669, passed 5-6-08)
§ 123.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage or participate in, aid, form or hold any block party
unless a permit has been properly obtained from the city.
(Ord. 669, passed 5-6-08) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 123.04 MANNER OF MAKING APPLICATION.
   A person seeking issuance of a block party permit shall file an application
with the city on forms prescribed by the City Manager. An application for a
block party permit shall be filed not less than ten days nor more than 60 days
before the proposed date of the block event.
(Ord. 669, passed 5-6-08)
§ 123.05 ADMINISTRATIVE RULES.
   The City Manager may establish the necessary administrative rules and
guidelines needed to ensure that block parties do not unreasonably disrupt
other neighborhood activities or create unreasonable safety hazards for persons
in or near the block party. The established administrative rules and guidelines
shall periodically be reviewed by the City Council.
(Ord. 669, passed 5-6-08)
§ 123.06 BLOCK PARTY FEES.
   The City Council may determine a fee for block party permits as needed to
recover the costs of processing permit applications.
(Ord. 669, passed 5-6-08)
§ 123.07 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   The Chief of Police shall examine each application submitted for block party
permit. Applicants shall be notified as to whether the permit application has
been approved or denied within five working days of the date that the
application was submitted. In the event that the Chief of Police denies the
application, the Chief shall notify the applicant in writing of the reasons(s)
for denial.
(Ord. 669, passed 5-6-08)
§ 123.08 NOTICE OF PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Upon issuing a permit, the Chief of Police shall provide a copy of the
permit to the Public Works Department and the Fire Chief. The Chief of Police
may also provide a copy of the permit to other governmental or private agencies
whose customary services may be affected or disrupted by the block party.
(Ord. 669, passed 5-6-08)
§ 123.09 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   A block party permit may be revoked by the Chief of Police or designee for
any violation of this chapter, the established administrative rules or in the
event of any emergency constituting an imminent threat to life or property.
(Ord. 669, passed 5-6-08)
CHAPTER 124: PAWN SHOPS
Section
   
124.01   Authority of Council
   
124.02   Definitions
   
124.03   License required
   
124.04   License application, fee, term
   
124.05   Required records
   
124.06   Daily reports to police
   
124.07   Receipt required
   
124.08   Redemption period
   
124.09   Holding period
   
124.10   Police order to hold property
   
124.11   Inspection of items
   
124.12   Label required
   
124.13   Prohibited acts
   
124.14   Denial, suspension or revocation of license
   
124.15   Most restrictive provisions apply
   
124.16   Hours of operation
   
124.17   Security requirements
§ 124.01 AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 325J, the city is authorized to establish an
ordinance to regulate and enforce guidelines specified under such an ordinance
for a pawn shop business within the City of North Saint Paul.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09)
§ 124.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLABLE TRANSACTION. Every reportable transaction conducted by a pawnbroker
is a billable  transaction except renewals, redemptions or extensions of
existing pawns on items previously reported and continuously in the licensee’s
possession, voided transactions, and confiscations.
   PAWN SHOP. A facility where money is loaned based on the value of goods
deposited at the facility by the borrower of the money, which goods are held by
the pawnbroker of the money occupying the facility as collateral for the loan.
Items held by the pawnbroker which are not redeemed by a borrower may be put up
for sale at the facility to the general public. For purposes of this chapter a
PAWN SHOP is not to be confused with an antique or second hand store, which
such primary business is not the loaning of money for a product received and
held.
   PAWNBROKER. Any natural person, partnership or corporation, or any other
legal entity however organized, either as principal, agent, or employee thereof
who loans money on deposit of or pledge for personal property or other valuable
things, or who deals in the purchasing of personal property or other valuable
things on condition of selling same back again at a stipulated price, or who
loans money secured by chattel mortgages on personal property, taking
possession of the property or any part thereof so mortgaged. To the extent that
a pawnbroker’s business includes buying personal property previously used,
rented or leased, or selling it on consignment, the provisions of this chapter
shall be applicable.
   REPORTABLE TRANSACTION. Every transaction conducted by a pawnbroker in which
merchandise is received through a pawn, purchase, consignment or trade, or in
which a pawn is renewed, extended or redeemed, or for which a unique
transaction number or identifier is generated by its point-of-sale software, or
an item is confiscated by law enforcement, is reportable except:
      (1)   The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used merchandise from a
merchant, manufacturer or wholesaler having an established permanent place of
business, and the retail sale of the merchandise, provided the pawnbroker must
maintain a record of the purchase or consignment which describes each item, and
must mark each item in a manner which relates it to that transaction record;
      (2)   Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise originally received by
pawn or purchase, and for which all applicable hold and/or redemption periods
have expired; and
      (3)   Items purchased from a Minnesota city, county or other political
subdivision’s law enforcement agency as an alternative to disposing of
unclaimed, impounded, seized or confiscated items through public auction or
sale, as allowed by state statute or local ordinance.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09)
§ 124.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, partnership, or corporation shall engage in or carry on the
business of a pawnbroker without a license issued by the city for each and
every separate office or place of business operated by the licensee in the
city. Any pawn transaction made without benefit of a license is void.
   (B)   A license under this chapter shall authorize the licensee to carry on
business only at the permanent place of business designated in the license. No
license may be transferred to a different location or different licensee.
However, upon written request, the Chief of Police, or Chief’s designee, may
approve an off-site locked and secured storage facility. All provisions of this
chapter regarding record keeping and reporting apply to the facility and its
contents. Property shall be stored in compliance with all provisions of the
city code. The licensee must either own the building in which the business is
conducted, and any approved off-site storage facility, or have a lease on the
business premise that extends for more than six months.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09)
§ 124.04 LICENSE APPLICATION, FEE, TERM.
   (A)   Every application for a license to maintain, operate or conduct a pawn
shop business shall file a complete application under oath with the city upon a
form provided by the city and shall pay a nonrefundable application fee in an
amount set by ordinance. To be eligible for or to maintain a license, a person
must meet the criteria specified in M.S. §325J.03. The application, once
accepted, shall be referred to the Police Department for investigation. Copies
of this application shall be forwarded to such other city departments as the
City Council shall deem necessary for verification and investigation of the
facts set forth in the application. The Chief of Police and such other
department heads shall make written recommendations to the City Council as to
the issuance or non-issuance of the license within 30 days of the filing of the
application. The number of licenses the City Council may issue pursuant to this
chapter is one.
   (B)   (1)   The billable transaction license fee shall be set by ordinance
of the City Council and shall reflect the cost of processing transactions from
the licensee and other related regulatory expenses as determined by the City
Council, and shall be reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, at least every year.
Licensees shall be notified in writing 30 days before any adjustment is
implemented. Billable transaction fees shall be billed monthly and are due and
payable within 30 days. Failure to make a payment within 30 days is a violation
of this chapter.
      (2)   All licenses shall expire at the end of each calendar year. A new
application fee shall be required whenever there is a change in the facts
presented by the application other than the date, applicant's home address or
building owner's address, or in the case of any license not renewed prior to
its expiration.
   (C)   All applicants requesting a license pursuant to this chapter will be
required to submit to a background investigation, including, but not limited to
a criminal history check. The complete application form shall contain all
information indicated, including:
      (1)   Full name, place, date of birth, and street residence of the
applicant;
      (2)   The business address of the applicant;
      (3)   A statement as to whether within the preceding five years, the
applicant has been convicted of any felony and/or the violation of any law
relating to theft, damage or trespass to property, sale of a controlled
substance, or the operation of any business; the nature of any such offense and
the penalty assessed;
      (4)   Whether the applicant is a natural person, corporation or
partnership:
         (a)   If the applicant is a corporation, the state of incorporation
and the full names and addresses of all officers and directors;
         (b)   If the applicant is a partnership, the full names and addresses
of all partners;
      (5)   Whether the applicant holds a current pawnbroker, precious metal
dealer or secondhand goods dealer license from any other governmental unit;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has previously been denied, or had revoked or
suspended, a pawnbroker, precious metal dealer, or secondhand dealer license
from any other governmental unit;
      (7)   The location of the business premises;
      (8)   If the applicant does not own the business premises, a true and
complete copy of the executed lease;
      (9)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed;
      (10)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid,
the years and amounts that are unpaid; and
      (11)   The full name of the manager or proprietor of the business.
   (D)   Each application shall be accompanied by a bond in an amount set
yearly by the City Council, executed by a corporation authorized to do business
in Minnesota and conditioned that in conducting the business the licensee will
observe all laws in relation to pawnbrokers and will conduct business in
conformity thereto and that the licensee will account for and deliver to any
person legally entitled any goods which have come into the licensee's hand
through the licensee's business as a pawnbroker, or in lieu thereof, will pay
the reasonable value in money to the person.
   (E)   The bond shall be maintained for so long as the pawnbroker does
business as such for the benefit of the city or any person who shall suffer any
damage through the act of the pawnbroker and shall not be terminable without
the bond company giving written notice 30 days in advance of termination to the
City Clerk.
   (F)   If the applicant is a natural person, the application shall be signed
and sworn to by the person; if a corporation, by the agent authorized to sign;
if a partnership, by a partner.
   (G)   No person shall make any material false statement in the application.
In addition to other penalties, the licensee's license may be revoked by the
City Council for giving false information on the application.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord. 782, passed 4-16-19) Penalty, See §
10.99
§ 124.05 REQUIRED RECORDS.
   (A)   At the time of any reportable transaction other than renewals,
extensions, redemptions or confiscations, every licensee must immediately
record in English the following information by using ink or other indelible
medium on forms or in a computerized record approved by the Police Department:
      (1)   A complete and accurate description of each item including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name, or other identifying mark on such an item;
      (2)   The purchase price, amount of money loaned upon, or pledged
therefor;
      (3)   The maturity date of the transaction and the amount due, including
monthly and annual interest rates and all pawn fees and charges;
      (4)   Date, time and place the item of property was received by the
licensee, and the unique alpha and/or numeric transaction identifier that
distinguishes it from all other transactions in the licensee's records;
      (5)   Full name, current residence address, current residence telephone
number, date of birth and accurate description of the person from whom the item
of the property was received, including: sex, height, weight, race, color of
eyes and color of hair;
      (6)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the
following forms of identification of the seller:
         (a)   Current valid Minnesota driver's license;
         (b)   Current valid Minnesota identification card;
         (c)   Current valid photo identification card issued by another state
or province of Canada; and/or
      (7)   The signature of the person identified in the transaction.
   (B)   (1)   At the time of any reportable transaction other than renewals,
extensions, redemptions or confiscations, every licensee must also take a color
photograph of:
         (a)   Each customer involved in a billable transaction; and
         (b)   Every item pawned or sold that does not have a unique serial or
identification number permanently engraved or affixed.
      (2)   Photographs must be at least two inches in length by two inches in
width and must be maintained in such a manner that the photograph can be
readily matched and correlated with all other records of the transaction to
which it relates. The photographs must be available to the Chief of Police, or
the Chief's designee, upon request. The major portion of the photograph must
include an identifiable facial image of the person who pawned or sold the item.
Items photographed must be accurately depicted. The licensee must inform the
person that he or she is being photographed by displaying a sign of sufficient
size in a conspicuous place in the premises.
   (C)   Within 24 hours of any reportable transaction other than renewals,
extensions, redemptions or confiscations, every licensee must fulfill the color
photograph requirements in division (B) of this section by submitting them as
digital images, in a format specified by the issuing authority, electronically
cross- referenced to the reportable transaction they are associated with.
   (D)   For renewals, extensions, redemptions and confiscations the licensee
shall provide the original transaction identifier, the date of the current
transaction, and the type of transaction.
   (E)   The records must at all reasonable times be open to inspection by the
Police Department or Department of Licenses. Data and photograph entries shall
be retained for at least three years from the date of transaction.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord 782, passed 4-6-19)
§ 124.06 DAILY REPORTS TO POLICE.
   (A)   Effective upon the first day of business, the pawnbroker business must
secure from the North Saint Paul Police Department the current version of the
automated pawn system interchange file specification, licensees must submit
every reportable transaction to the Police Department daily in the following
manner: licensees must provide to the Police Department all reportable
transaction information by transferring it from their computer to the automated
pawn system via modem using the current version of the automated pawn system
interchange file specification. All required records must be transmitted
completely and accurately after the close of business each day in accordance
with standards and procedures established by the issuing authority. Any
transaction that does not meet the automated pawn system interchange file
specification must be corrected and resubmitted the next business day. The
licensee must display a sign of sufficient size, in a conspicuous place in the
premises, which informs patrons that all transactions are reported to the North
Saint Paul Police Department daily.
   (B)   Licensees will be charged for each billable transaction reported to
the Police Department. Fee will be set yearly by the city council.
      (1)   If a licensee is unable to successfully transfer the required
reports by modem, the licensee must provide the Police Department, printed
copies of all reportable transactions along with the video tape(s) for that
date, by noon the next business day.
      (2)   If the problem is determined to be in the licensee’s system and is
not corrected by the close of the first business day following the failure, the
licensee must continue to provide the required reports as detailed in this
section, and shall be charged a $100 reporting failure penalty daily until the
error is corrected.
      (3)   If the problem is determined to be outside the licensee’s system,
the licensee must continue to provide the required reports in this section, and
resubmit all transactions via modem when the error is corrected.
      (4)   If a licensee is unable to capture, digitize or transmit the
photographs required, the licensee must immediately take all required
photographs with a still camera, cross-reference the photographs to the correct
transaction, and make the pictures available to the police department upon
request.
      (5)   Regardless of the cause or origin of the technical problems that
prevented the licensee from uploading their reportable transactions, upon
correction of the problem, the licensee shall upload every reportable
transaction from every business day the problem had existed.
      (6)   The Police Department may, upon presentation of extenuating
circumstances, delay the implementation of the daily reporting penalty.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09)
§ 124.07 RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   Every licensee must provide a receipt to the party identified in every
reportable transaction and must maintain a duplicate of that receipt for three
years. The receipt must include at least the following information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the licensed business;
   (B)   The date and time the item was received by the licensee;
   (C)   Whether the item was pawned or sold, or the nature of the transaction;
   (D)   An accurate description of each item received including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name, or other identifying mark on such an item;
   (E)   The signature or unique identifier of the licensee or employee that
conducted the transaction;
   (F)   The amount advanced or paid;
   (G)   The monthly and annual interest rates, including all pawn fees and
charges;
   (H)   The last regular day of business by which the item must be redeemed by
the pledger without risk that the item will be sold, and the amount necessary
to redeem the pawned item on that date;
   (I)   The full name, current residence address, current residence telephone
number, and date of birth of the pledger or seller;
   (J)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the following
forms of identification of the seller:
      (1)   Current valid Minnesota driver’s license;
      (2)   Current valid Minnesota identification card; and/or
      (3)   Current valid photo driver’s license or identification card issued
by another state or province of Canada;
   (K)   Description of the pledger or seller including approximate sex,
height, weight, race, color of eyes and color of hair;
   (L)   The signature of the pledger or seller; and
   (M)   All printed statements as required by M.S. § 325J.04, Subd. 2, or any
other applicable statutes.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09)
§ 124.08 REDEMPTION PERIOD.
   Any person pledging, pawning or depositing an item for security must have a
minimum of 90 days from the date of that transaction to redeem the item before
it may be forfeited and sold. During the 90-day holding period, items may not
be removed from the licensed location. Licensees are prohibited from redeeming
any item to anyone other than the person to whom the receipt was issued or, to
any person identified in a written and notarized authorization to redeem the
property identified in the receipt, or to a person identified in writing by the
pledger at the time of the initial transaction and signed by the pledger, or
with approval of the Chief of Police, or Chief's designee. Written
authorization for release of property to persons other than the original
pledger must be maintained along with original transaction record in accordance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09; Am. Ord. 782, passed 4-16-19)
§ 124.09 HOLDING PERIOD.
   (A)   Any item purchased or accepted in trade by a licensee must not be sold
or otherwise transferred for 30 days from the date of the transaction. An
individual may redeem an item 72 hours after the item was received on deposit,
excluding Sundays and legal holidays.
   (B)   All property stored and held during the holding period, and property
for sale must be contained within the walls of the licensed business in North
St. Paul. No outside storage will be permitted on the premises. Additional
storage facilities operated must have the same safeguards and access by police
as set forth in this chapter as the physical retail location.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09)
§ 124.10 POLICE ORDER TO HOLD PROPERTY.
   (A)   Investigative hold. Whenever a law enforcement official from any
agency notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or
removed from the premises. The investigative hold shall be confirmed in writing
by the originating agency within 72 hours and will remain in effect for 15 days
from the date of initial notification, or until the investigative order is
canceled, or until an order to hold/confiscate is issued.
   (B)   Order to hold. Whenever the Chief of Police, or the Chief’s designee,
notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or removed
from the licensed premises until authorized to be released by the Chief or the
Chief’s designee. The order to hold shall expire 90 days from the date it is
placed unless the Chief of Police or the Chief’s designee determines the hold
is still necessary and notifies the licensee in writing.
   (C)   Order to confiscate. If an item is identified as stolen or evidence in
a criminal case, the Chief or Chief’s designee may:
      (1)   Physically confiscate and remove it from the shop, pursuant to a
written order from the Chief or the Chief’s designee; or
      (2)   (a)   Place the item on hold or extend the hold as provided in this
section, and leave it in the shop.
         (b)   When an item is confiscated, the person doing so shall provide
identification upon request of the licensee, and shall provide the licensee the
name and phone number of the confiscating agency and investigator, and the case
number related to the confiscation.
         (c)   When an order to hold/confiscate is no longer necessary, the
Chief of Police, or Chief’s designee shall so notify the licensee.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09)
§ 124.11 INSPECTION OF ITEMS.
   At all times during the term of the license, the licensee must allow law
enforcement officials to enter the premises where the licensed business is
located, during normal business hours, except in an emergency, for the purpose
of inspecting the premises and inspecting the items, wares and merchandise and
records therein to verify compliance with this chapter or other applicable
laws.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09)
§ 124.12 LABEL REQUIRED.
   Licensees must attach a label to every item at the time it is pawned,
purchased or received in inventory from any reportable transaction. Permanently
recorded on this label must be the number or name that identifies the
transaction in the shop’s records, the transaction date, the name of the item
and the description or the model and serial number of the item as reported to
the Police Department, whichever is applicable, and the date the item is out of
pawn or can be sold, if applicable. Labels shall not be reused.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09)
§ 124.13 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years may pawn or sell or attempt to
pawn or sell goods with any licensee, nor may any licensee receive any goods
from a person under the age of 18 years.
   (B)   No licensee may receive any goods from a person of unsound mind or
from an intoxicated person, or a person in an apparent altered state.
   (C)   No licensee may receive any goods, unless the seller presents
identification in the form of a valid driver’s license, a valid state
identification card, or current valid photo driver’s license or identification
card issued by the state or province of residency of the person from whom the
item was received.
   (D)   No licensee may receive any item of property that possesses an altered
or obliterated serial number or operation identification number or any item of
property that has had its serial number removed.
   (E)   No person may pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit any
article of property not the person’s own; nor shall any person pawn, pledge,
sell, consign, leave, or deposit the property of another, whether with
permission or without; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave,
or deposit any article of property in which another has a security interest;
with any licensee.
   (F)   No person seeking to pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit
any article of property with any licensee shall give a false or fictitious
name; nor give a false date of birth; nor give a false or out of date address
of residence or telephone number; nor present a false or altered
identification, or the identification of another to any licensee.
   (G)   No licensee may receive or sell the following items: any firearms or
deadly weapons. Deadly weapons would include, but not limited to, firearms of
any type, knives with a blade length over four inches, num-chucks, throwing
stars, or any other device that could be used to seriously injure a body.
Additionally, this would include all weapons defined and/or prohibited by
Chapter 131 of the City Code.
   (H)   This chapter strictly prohibits the receiving, possessing,
transferring, trading or selling of pornographic material, media, or images of
any and all types.
   (I)   No licensee may operate a check cashing business within a pawn shop.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 124.14 DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license under this chapter may be denied, suspended or revoked for one
or more of the following reasons:
   (A)   The proposed use does not comply with the applicable zoning code;
   (B)   The proposed use does not comply with any health, building, building
maintenance or other provisions of the city code or state law;
   (C)   The applicant or licensee has failed to comply with one or more
provisions of this chapter;
   (D)   The applicant is not a citizen of the United States or a resident
alien, or upon whom it is impractical or impossible to conduct a background or
financial investigation due to the unavailability of information;
   (E)   Fraud, misrepresentation or bribery in securing or renewing a license;
   (F)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the application
and investigation for, or in the course of, the applicant’s business;
   (G)    Violation within the preceding five years, of any law relating to
theft, damage or trespass to property, sale of a controlled substance, or
operation of a business; and/or
   (H)   The owner of the premises licensed or to be licensed would not qualify
for a license under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09)
§ 124.15 MOST RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS APPLY.
Should any provision of this chapter regulating pawnbrokers or pawn
transactions be more or less restrictive than a similar provision in M.S. Ch.
325J or other state law or rule, the more restrictive provision shall apply.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09)
§ 124.16 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No property shall be received as a pledge or purchase by any pawnbroker, nor
shall any property be sold by a pawnbroker except during the hours of 10:00
a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Saturday, and
12:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Sunday.
(Ord. 679, passed 7-7-09)
§ 124.17 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   All pawn shops must be equipped with the following safety features:
   (A)   Jersey barriers;
   (B)   Interior lights shall remain on during non-business hours;
   (C)   Security lights shall be installed and operable on all side and rear
doors.
(Ord. 782, passed 4-16-19)
CHAPTER 125: BODY ART ENTERPRISE
Section
   
125.01   Purpose and adoption of state law by reference
   
125.02   Definitions
   
125.03   License required; exception
§ 125.01 PURPOSE AND ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the business of body art in
order to protect the health and welfare of the general public. The City Council
finds that regulations governing body art can minimize the spread of disease
and therefore protect the general health and welfare of the community.
   (B)   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 146B are hereby adopted by reference
and are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention
of the Council that all future amendments of M.S. Chapter 146B are hereby
adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time
this chapter was adopted. The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S.
Chapter 146B to impose additional restrictions on body art establishments
beyond those contained in state law.
(Ord. 818, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 125.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BODY ART. The practice of physical body adornment using, but not limited to,
tattooing and body piercing. BODY ART does not include practices and procedures
that are performed by a licensed medical or dental professional if the
procedure is within the professional's scope of practice.
   BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT. A place or premise, permanent in nature and
location, where body art, whether or not for profit, is performed.
   TATTOOING. Any method of placing indelible ink or other pigments into or
under the skin or mucosa with needles or any other instruments used to puncture
the skin, resulting in permanent coloration of the skin or mucosa. TATTOOING
also includes micropigmentation and cosmetic tattooing.
   TECHNICIAN or BODY ART TECHNICIAN. Any individual who is licensed under M.S.
Chapter 146B as a tattoo technician or as a body piercing technician or as
both.
(Ord. 818, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 125.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate any establishment where body art is practiced
nor engage in the practice of tattooing or body piercing without such
establishment being licensed pursuant to this chapter and City Code Chapter 110
and under state law. An establishment of a state-licensed physician who, within
the scope of practice, engages in the practice of tattooing or body piercing or
both shall be exempt from the license requirements.
   (B)   A written application for a body art establishment license shall be
filed on forms provided by the city with the City Manager and accompanied by
the fee in accordance with the fee schedule. The city shall process
applications pursuant to City Code §§
110.01 through
110.11, General Licensing Provisions.
(Ord. 818, passed 8-15-2023)
CHAPTER 126: CANNABIS AND LOWER- POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES BUSINESSES
Section
   
126.01   Findings and purpose
   
126.02   Definitions
   
126.03   State license required
   
126.04   Requirement to register a cannabis or lower-potency hemp retail
businesses
   
126.05   Home cultivation
   
126.06   Administration
§ 126.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   The city makes the following legislative findings:
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of M.S.
Chapter 342, and M.S. § 412.221, which authorize the city to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare of residents by regulating cannabis businesses
within the city.
   (B)   The city finds that the proposed provisions are appropriate and lawful
regulations for the city, that the proposed regulations will promote the
interests of the community for now and in the future, and that the proposed
provisions are in the public interest and for the public good.
(Ord. 836, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 126.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise noted in this chapter, words and phrases contained in M.S.
§ 342.01, and the rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts, and any term
defined in §
154.003 shall have the same meanings in this chapter.
   ENCLOSED, LOCKED SPACE. Securely locked indoor or outdoor space preventing
access to the interior by any person other than the owner. A screen porch is
not an enclosed, locked space. An ENCLOSED, LOCKED SPACE must either be indoors
or:
      (1)   Have sidewalls constructed from 11 gauge or heavier wire, with
openings not to exceed two inches.
      (2)   Support posts shall be 1 1/4-inch or larger steel pipe buried in
the ground 18 inches or more.
      (3)   A cover must be provided over the entire space constructed of the
same gauge wire or heavier as the walls.
      (4)   The entrance/exit gate must be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when not actively in use.
   OPEN TO PUBLIC VIEW. A location that is visible to any person in any area
open to or made available for public use, including public parks, public right
of way, sidewalks, or parking lots.
(Ord. 836, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 126.03 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No cannabis business may operate within the city without a current, active,
and valid license issued by the Office of Cannabis Management.
(Ord. 836, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 126.04 REQUIREMENT TO REGISTER A CANNABIS OR LOWER-POTENCY HEMP RETAIL
BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Registration required.
      (1)   No individual or entity may operate a cannabis retail business or
lower-potency hemp edibles retailer within the city without first registering
with the city.
      (2)   Any cannabis or lower-potency hemp retail business that sells to a
customer or patient without valid retail registration shall incur a civil
penalty of $2,000 for each violation.
   (B)   Compliance checks prior to retail registration.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of a retail registration, the city shall
conduct a preliminary compliance check to ensure compliance with local
ordinances.
      (2)   Pursuant to M.S. § 342, within 30 days of receiving a copy of a
state license application from OCM, the city shall certify on a form provided
by OCM whether a proposed retail location complies with zoning ordinances and,
if applicable, whether the proposed business complies with the state fire code
and building code.
   (C)   Registration and application procedure.
      (1)   Fees.
         (a)   The city shall not charge an application fee.
         (b)   A registration fee, as established in the city's fee schedule,
shall be charged to applicants depending on the type of retail business license
applied for.
         (c)   An initial registration fee shall not exceed $500 or half the
amount of an initial state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever is less.
The initial registration fee shall include the initial retail registration fee
and the first annual renewal fee.
         (d)   Any renewal retail registration fee imposed by the city shall be
charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent renewal
thereafter.
         (e)   A renewal retail registration fee shall not exceed $1,000 or
half the amount of a renewal state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever
is less.
         (f)   A medical combination business operating an adult-use retail
location may only be charged a single registration fee, not to exceed the
lesser of a single retail registration fee, defined under this section, of the
adult-use retail business.
      (2)   Application submittal. The city shall issue a retail registration
to a state-licensed retail business that adheres to the requirements of M.S. §
342.22.
         (a)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the city. Said form shall include, but is not
limited to:
            1.   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            2.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
            3.   The address and parcel ID for the property from which the
retail registration is sought; and
            4.   Certification that the applicant complies with the
requirements of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13.
         (b)   The applicant shall include with the form:
            1.   The registration fee as required;
            2.   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM
license preapproval;
         (c)   Once an application is considered complete, the City Manager or
designee shall inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and
forward the application to the City Clerk for approval or denial.
         (d)   The registration fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
      (3)   Application approval.
         (a)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not
be approved if the cannabis retail business exceeds the maximum number of
registered cannabis retail businesses permitted under §
126.04(H).
         (b)   A retail registration application shall not be approved or
renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   A retail registration application that meets the requirements of
this chapter shall be approved.
      (4)   Annual compliance checks.
         (a)   The city shall complete at minimum one compliance check for each
registered business per calendar year to assess if the business meets age
verification requirements, as required under M.S. § 342.22 Subd. 4(b) and M.S.
§ 342.24 and this chapter.
         (b)   Age verification compliance checks shall involve persons at
least 17 years of age but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written
consent of a parent or guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt
to purchase adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products under the direct
supervision of a law enforcement officer or an employee of the local unit of
government.
         (c)   Any failures under this section must be reported to the Office
of Cannabis Management.
      (5)   Location change. A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall be
required to submit a new application for registration if it seeks to move to a
new location still within the legal boundaries of the city. Such application
shall be treated as a renewal of the registration.
   (D)   Renewal of registration.
      (1)   Renewal process.
         (a)   The city shall renew an annual registration of a state-licensed
retail business at the same time OCM renews the retail business license.
         (b)   A registered business shall apply to renew registration on a
form established by the city.
         (c)   A retail registration issued under this chapter shall not be
transferred.
      (2)   Renewal fees. The city may charge a renewal fee for the
registration starting at the second renewal, as established in its fee
schedule.
      (3)   Renewal application. The application for renewal of a retail
registration shall include but is not limited to items required under § 126.04
(C) of this chapter.
   (E)   Suspension of registration.
      (1)   When suspension is warranted.
         (a)   The city may suspend a registration if the registration holder
violates this chapter or poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of
the public. The city shall immediately notify the business in writing the
grounds for the suspension.
      (2)   Notification to OCM. The city shall immediately notify the OCM in
writing the grounds for the suspension.
      (3)   Length of suspension. The suspension of a retail registration may
be for up to 30 calendar days unless OCM suspends the license for a longer
period. The business may not make sales to customers if their registration is
suspended.
      (4)   Civil penalties. Subject to M.S. § 342.22, Subd. 5(e) the city may
impose a civil penalty for registration violations, not to exceed $2,000.
   (F)   Registration mistakenly issued or renewed. If a registration is
mistakenly issued or renewed to any person or entity, for any reason, including
but not limited to the submission of false or misleading information by the
license holder or applicant, the registration will be suspended upon the
discovery of ineligibility for registration under this chapter or state or
other local law, ordinance or other regulation. Any suspension will comply with
the requirements of M.S. § 342.22, Subd. 5.
   (G)   License holder responsibility. Every retail registration holder is
responsible for conduct on the registered premises and any sale of cannabis,
hemp, or products containing cannabis or hemp by an employee is the act of the
registration holder for the purposes of all provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   Limiting of registrations.
      (1)   The city shall limit the number of cannabis retail registrations
issued to any cannabis retailer, cannabis microbusiness with retail
endorsement, or cannabis mezzobusiness with retail endorsement to no fewer than
one registration for every 12,500 residents within the city.
      (2)   If Ramsey County has one active cannabis retail registration for
every 12,500 residents then the city shall not be required to register
additional businesses.
(Ord. 836, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 126.05 HOME CULTIVATION.
   City residents may cultivate up to eight cannabis plants, with no more than
four being mature at any one time, per residence without license or
registration. All home cultivation must be in an enclosed, locked space and not
open to public view. No person may use any volatile solvent to separate or
extract cannabis concentrate or hemp concentrate without a cannabis business
license to do so. No person may sell any home-cultivated cannabis.
(Ord. 836, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 126.06 ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Manager or designee is responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or
failure to comply with any of its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is
punishable as defined by law. Violations of this chapter can occur regardless
of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated activity listed in this
chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from enforcing any
other applicable remedy including but not limited to injunctive relief.
(Ord. 836, passed 12-17-2024)
CHAPTER 127: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
127.01   Definitions
   
127.02   License required
   
127.03   License requirements
   
127.04   License ineligibility
   
127.05   License denial procedure
   
127.06   Suspension and revocation
   
127.07   License or registration transferability
   
127.08   Restrictions
   
127.09   Other remedies
§ 127.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this chapter, except where the contact clearly
indicates a different meaning.
   CITY. City of North St. Paul, Minnesota.
   COUNTY AUTHORITY. Ramsey County Public Health and Environment.
   ISSUING AUTHORITY. The City Manager or authorized designee.
   LOCAL AUTHORITY. City of North St. Paul, Minnesota.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. Any movable food preparation and sale facility,
including any vehicle or trailer used for the purpose of selling food or
beverage prepared inside the vehicle and ready to be consumed while the vehicle
is parked; or any type of vehicle used for the purpose of selling single
servings of prepackaged food or beverage intended for immediate consumption
while going from street to street including, but not limited to, ice cream
trucks/ vendors. Movable food vendor shall not include a food truck which
operates on a permanent basis at a business separately licensed to sell food
products to consumers.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR LICENSE. A license issued under this chapter that is
valid during the licensing term.
   STATE AUTHORITY. Minnesota Department of Health or Minnesota Department of
Agriculture.
(Ord. 838, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 127.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate as a mobile food vendor without
being issued a license from the city. Operations meeting the definition of a
mobile food vendor and operating under a valid mobile food vendor license do
not need a peddler's license under Chapter 119. Mobile food vendors operating
as part of a permitted special event must still obtain a valid mobile food
vendor license.
(Ord. 838, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 127.03 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application. Application for a mobile food vendor license will be made
on forms supplied by the City and filed, along with all the required fees, with
the City Clerk for designated issuing authority. All license applications and
associated required materials must be submitted to the issuing authority a
minimum of seven business days before the applicant desires to begin conducting
business within the city. The application shall contain the name of the
applicant, age, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate, whether the business will operate from a particular location, whether
the applicant is the owner and operator of the business, any licenses granted
to the business by any other city or county and whether those licenses have
ever been suspended or revoked, proof of Ramsey County food license, proof of
liability insurance, and such other information as the issuing authority may
require.
   (B)   Inspection. The city shall inspect the mobile food vendor facility
before issuing a license. Temporary structures that are disassembled and
reassembled when moved, such as tents, must be inspected the day of any
operations.
   (C)   Licensing procedure. If an application is determined incomplete, the
issuing authority must inform the applicant of what information is missing. If
the application is complete, the issuing authority staff will forward the
application to any other City Departments to conduct inspections and to verify
eligible zoning locations. Within seven business days of receiving a complete
application, the issuing authority must issue the license unless grounds exist
for denying the license application under § 126.04.
   (D)   License term. All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire the
April 30 of the following year.
   (E)   Display of license. All licenses issued by the city shall be visibly
displayed by the mobile food vendor at all times when conducting business in
the city.
   (F)   Payment of fees. Each application for a license must be accompanied by
payment in full of the required fees, as such fees are determined by the City
Council.
      (1)   License fee. Each application for a license or license renewal must
be accompanied by a payment of the required license fee. Upon rejection of any
application for license, or upon withdrawal of any application before approval,
the treasurer will refund to the applicant the amount paid for the license fee,
except where rejection is for a willful misstatement in the license
application.
      (2)   Late fee. If a renewal application is received after the given due
date, a late fee, as determined by the City Council, shall be charged to the
applicant. Late renewal applications shall not be processed until the late fee
is paid in full. Late fees are nonrefundable.
      (3)   After-the-fact license fee. If a mobile food vendor is found
operating within the city without a license, it may obtain by submitting an
application and application fee within seven calendar days of the violation.
Such an after-the-fact application shall pay double the ordinary application
fee.
(Ord. 838, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 127.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following are grounds for denying issuance of a mobile food vendor
license:
   (A)   The failure of an applicant to obtain and demonstrate proof of all
necessary licenses or permits required by state, county, or local health or
transportation authorities.
   (B)   The failure of an applicant to demonstrate the food truck complies
with all necessary safety and food hygiene requirements required by state,
county, or local authorities.
   (C)   The failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
requested by the city as part of the application process.
   (D)   Evidence of any unresolved or ongoing government or legal action
against the business filed by any state or government entity.
   (E)   Within the past 36 months, the applicant has had a license under this
chapter, or under a similar ordinance from another city, suspended three or
more times or revoked. A prior suspension or revocation does not constitute
grounds for denying issuance of a mobile food vendor license if the applicant
appealed the prior suspension or revocation and said action was overturned.
   (F)   When the issuing authority has learned the applicant has changed any
name or names relating to the applicant or business in an attempt to hide or
escape any legal obligation(s).
   (G)   If after investigation, the issuing authority finds the character and
business responsibility of the applicant to be unsatisfactory or a potential
harm to the public.
   (H)   The failure to meet or comply with fire codes or safety standards upon
inspection completed by any local, county, or state authorities.
   (I)   If another municipality or authority has revoked a similar license
held by the business for failure to abide by state or local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   If the business has previously been found to be operating in the city
without a license, unless thereafter it applied and obtained for an after-the-
fact license within seven calendar days of the violation.
(Ord. 838, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 127.05 LICENSE DENIAL PROCEDURE.
   If the city denies the license application, the applicant shall be notified
in writing of the decision and the reason(s) for denial. Notice shall be
delivered in person, by regular mail, or by email to the applicant at the
address provided in the application and shall inform the applicant of the
applicant's right to appeal before the City Council. The City Council shall
hear the appeal at the next regularly scheduled council meeting that is at
least five business days after the city receives the notice of appeal.
(Ord. 838, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 127.06 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license may be suspended or revoked at the discretion
of the issuing authority for violation of any of the following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by an applicant on the application form.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
      (3)   Subsequent offense to which the granting of the license could have
been denied under § 127.04.
      (4)   Engaging in any prohibited activity as provided under § 127.08.
   (B)   Notice and right to hearing. Prior to revoking or suspending any
license, the issuing authority shall provide a license holder with written
notice of the alleged violations and inform the licensee or registrant of his
or her right to a hearing on the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered
in person, by regular mail, or by email to the applicant at the address
provided in the application and shall inform the applicant of the applicant's
right to a hearing. If no request for a hearing is received within ten days
following the service of the notice, the issuing authority may proceed with the
suspension or revocation. For the purpose of a mailed notice service shall be
considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be scheduled
at the next regularly scheduled council meeting that is at least five business
days after the city receives the notice of appeal.
   (C)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the issuing authority, imminent
harm or the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of
a mobile food vendor licensee, the issuing authority may immediately suspend
the person's license and provide notice of the right to hold a subsequent
hearing as prescribed in division (B) of this section.
(Ord. 838, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 127.07 LICENSE OR REGISTRATION TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued shall be transferred to any person or entity other than
the person to whom the license was issued.
(Ord. 838, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 127.08 RESTRICTIONS.
   No mobile food vendor shall conduct business in any of the following manners
or in the following areas:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or the items to be sold by
means of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any
other noise, so as to be audible from a distance of more than 150 feet from the
truck. Notwithstanding for foregoing, the issuing authority may allow use of
live music, bells, or other noise for licensees who sell pre-packaged frozen
food provided that:
      (1)   The applicant included such a request on the license application.
      (2)   The applicant abides by all license restrictions related to the
grant of such a request.
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian,
on any street, sidewalk, alleyway, or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any specific individual of the general public.
   (D)   Conducting business before 8:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m., unless
specifically authorized by the issuing authority.
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license and identification when requested.
   (F)   Using the license of another person or of another mobile food vendor
licensee, or a licensee allowing another person to use their license.
   (G)   Alleging false or misleading statements about the products being sold,
including untrue statement of endorsement. No mobile food vendor shall claim to
have the endorsement of the city solely based on the city having issued a
license to that person.
   (H)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave or
returning to that property after leaving, without written permission of the
property owner.
   (I)   Otherwise operating their business in any manner that may be found to
be unsanitary, obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
   (J)   Conducting business in a city park or parking lot at a city park
unless authorized by the issuing authority.
   (K)   Operating business less than 1,000 feet away from a permitted event.
   (L)   Operating business less than 200 feet from any food service premises,
unless with approval form the owner of the food service premise(s) or retail
center.
   (M)   Failing to maintain mobile food vendor in good repair, order, and neat
appearance.
   (N)   Failing to clean up and properly dispose of trash and debris in the
vicinity of the mobile food vendor at the end of each business day.
   (O)   Dispensing liquid or other waste products from mobile food vendor on
to city, public, or private property.
   (P)   Selling or providing any intoxicating or 3.2% liquor, or lower-potency
hemp edibles, or allowing customers to consume the same in public, unless
specifically authorized by the issuing authority.
(Ord. 838, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 127.09 OTHER REMEDIES.
   Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing chapter, the city may enforce any
provision of this article by issuance of a citation, mandamus, injunction, or
any other appropriate remedy in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 838, passed 2-4-2025)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
   
131.   WEAPONS
   
132.   SKATEBOARDS AND INLINE SKATES
   
133.   FIREWORKS
   
134.   REGULATION OF UNATTENDED COLLECTION BINS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Vagrancy
   
130.03   Destruction of public property
   
130.04   Destruction of private property
   
130.05   Unlawful use of utilities
   
130.06   Cooperation with public officer
   
130.07   False alarms
   
130.08   Advertising on utility poles
   
130.09   Dumping offensive substances
   
130.10   False reports of crimes
   
130.11   Issuance of dishonored checks
   
130.12   Trespassing
   
130.13   Harassing conduct prohibited
   
130.14   Disorderly house
   
130.15   Curfew for minors
   
130.16   Minors in amusement places
   
130.17   Offenses involving the person
   
130.18   Offenses involving property
   
130.19   Offenses involving public health and safety
   
130.20   Drugs, controlled substances
   
130.21   Fleeing a peace officer
   
130.22   Noise prohibited
   
130.23    Catalytic converters
   
130.24   Public use of hemp and cannabis products
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following in a public or private place
knowing, or having reasonable grounds to know, that it will or will tend to
alarm, anger or disturb others or provide an assault or breach of the peace:
      (1)   Engage in brawling or fighting;
      (2)   Disturb an assembly or meeting, not unlawful in its character;
      (3)   Engage in offensive, obscene or abusive language or in boisterous
and noisy conduct tending reasonably to arouse alarm, anger or resentment in
others;
      (4)   Acts in a manner as to annoy, disturb, interfere with, obstruct or
be offensive to another or others;
      (5)   Congregates with three or more together or near each other in any
public street or on any foot walk or sidewalk in the city so as to obstruct the
free passage of foot passengers, and so standing refuses to move on immediately
upon request so to do made by any member of the Council or police officers;
      (6)   Frequents or loiters about any place soliciting any person for the
purpose of committing any crime against nature or other lewdness;
      (7)   Willfully and lewdly exposing a person or other lewdness;
      (8)   Appears in person or on a public street, alley or other public
place in a state of drunkenness or intoxication;
      (9)   Hides, lies and waits or conceals in any house or building or upon
any yard or premises in said city with intent to do mischief or commit any
offense prohibited by the laws of this state or the ordinances of this city;
      (10)   Interferes with, obstructs, renders danger for passage any lake,
park, public square, street, alley or highway or any public place in said city;
      (11)   Interferes with and obstructs the Fire Department while engaging
in fighting a fire;
      (12)   Stands or loiters in or about a doorway of any building or sits
upon the steps, window sill or railings of any building in such a manner as to
obstruct ingress and egress to and from each building or to the annoyance to
the owner or occupant thereof or the public in case of a public building;
      (13)   Whoever conceals his or her identity in a public place by means of
a robe, mask or other disguise, unless incidental to amusement or
entertainment.
   (B)   A person doing any of the foregoing is guilty of disorderly conduct.
(`89 Code, § 171.050)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.02 VAGRANCY.
   M.S. § 609.725, as it may be amended from time to time, is adopted by
reference.
(`89 Code, § 171.060)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.03 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall willfully or maliciously mark, deface, injure, break or
destroy in any manner any public property.
(`89 Code, § 171.070)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.04 DESTRUCTION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall willfully or maliciously mark, deface, injure, break or
destroy the physical property of another without the latter’s consent.
(`89 Code, § 171.080)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.05 UNLAWFUL USE OF UTILITIES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Willfully use or appropriate any water from the city or make any
connections thereto without lawful authority or in any way muddy, pollute or
befoul said water or in any way damage, destroy or injure any water main,
hydrant, water meter or any connection or part of said water system;
   (B)   Willfully use or appropriate any electrical energy from the city or
make any connections thereto without lawful authority or in any way damage or
injure any pole, line or equipment connected to or a part of said system;
   (C)   Without lawful authority, no person shall tamper with or handle any
electric meter for any unlawful purpose;
   (D)   Willfully use or appropriate any part of the city sewer system or make
any connections thereto without lawful authority or in any way damage or injure
any manhole, pipe or equipment connected to or forming a part of said sewer
system.
(`89 Code, § 171.090)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.06 COOPERATION WITH PUBLIC OFFICER.
   (A)   Resisting arrest; obstructing process.
      (1)   No person shall wilfully resist, delay or obstruct a public officer
in discharging or attempting to discharge a duty of his or her office.
      (2)   No person shall intentionally obstruct, hinder or prevent the
lawful execution of any legal process, civil or criminal.
   (B)   Disobeying order of police officer. No person shall fail or refuse to
comply with any lawful order or direction of any police officer within the
city.
   (C)   False crime reports; false information. No person shall report or
cause to be reported to the Police Department by telephone, in writing or by
any other means of communication any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor
knowing that no such felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor has, in fact,
been committed, nor shall any person, in reporting a felony, gross misdemeanor
or misdemeanor which has actually been committed, knowingly give false
information about the same to the Police Department.
   (D)   Obstructing Council and city employees.
      (1)   False statements. Make or submit any false report, petition or
statement to the City Council, and city employee or any committee or commission
established by the City Council while in the performance of their duties.
      (2)   Interference. Interfere with or obstruct the City Council, and city
employee or any committee or commission established by the City Council while
in the performance of their duties.
   (E)   Fire violations. No person shall give or make or cause to be given or
made an alarm of fire without probable cause, or neglect or refuse to obey a
reasonable order of the Chief at a fire or interfere with the Fire Department
in the discharge of its duties. No person other than a member of the Fire
Department shall leave any vehicle standing within 300 feet of a fire. No
person shall drive a vehicle of any kind over a fire hose line on a street
whether the same is in service at the time or not.
(`89 Code, § 171.100)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.07 FALSE ALARMS.
   No person shall, without due authority from the Chief of the Fire
Department, willfully and knowingly give any false alarm of fire in the city or
in any way meddle, tamper, interfere with, injure or damage any fire alarm
apparatus, push button, alarm bell, wires, line poles or anything connected
with or forming part of the fire alarm system of the city.
(`89 Code, § 171.110)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.08 ADVERTISING ON UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   No person shall fasten in any manner any advertisement, poster,
picture or painted sign of any description upon any lamp post or upon any mast
or pole in the city used for supporting or conducting any wires or cables.
   (B)   The owner of any mast or pole standing in any street in the city used
for supporting or conducting electric wires or cables shall not permit any
person to attach thereto in any manner any advertisement, poster, picture,
paper or painted sign of any description.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the posting of any sign on any
post or mast where the same is directed by the city.
(`89 Code, § 171.120)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.09 DUMPING OFFENSIVE SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall dump, throw, scatter or deposit at any place within the city
any night soil, garbage, manure, ashes mixed with garbage, septic tanks,
cesspools, vaults, glass, tin cans, junk or any putrid or offensive substance,
except under permit issued by the Council or City Manager, nor shall any person
refuse to remove the same from any property within the city. For the purposes
of this section, GARBAGE means kitchen offal and all other refuse matter
composed of either animal or vegetable matter.
(`89 Code, § 171.130)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Cross reference:
   Garbage, refuse and waste, see
Chapter 55
§ 130.10 FALSE REPORTS OF CRIMES.
   No person shall give any false information to the police about any crime or
misdemeanor that has been committed, nor report to the police any crime or
misdemeanor that has not been committed.
(`89 Code, § 171.140)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.11 ISSUANCE OF DISHONORED CHECKS.
   The provisions of M.S. § 609.535, Issuance of Dishonored Checks, as it may
be amended from time to time, is adopted by reference and made a part of this
chapter as completely as if set out here in full.
(`89 Code, § 171.150)
§ 130.12 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   Whoever intentionally does any of the following acts shall be guilty
of a trespass:
      (1)   Enter upon the premises of another and, without claim of right,
refuse to depart therefrom on demand of the lawful possessor thereof, his or
her agent or a police officer;
      (2)   Enter upon the premises of another, without the permission of the
owner or occupant, and is in an area not used by the public at that time,
unless said entry was accidental or the person is an invitee or licensee;
      (3)   Enter upon the premises of another without the permission of the
owner or occupant when “No Trespassing” signs are displayed on the property or
to enter upon those parts of the premises that are signed “Employees Only” or
“Authorized Personnel Only” or similar such signs;
      (4)   Enter the premises of another with intent to take or injure any
fruit or fruit trees or vegetables growing thereon without the permission of
the owner or occupant;
      (5)   Enter upon the premises of another, without the permission of the
owner or occupant, for the purpose of prowling, window peeping or unauthorized
invasion of the rights of the owner or occupant of such property;
      (6)   Without the permission of the owner or occupant, leave or deposit
on the premises of another any trash, rubbish or garbage;
      (7)   Operate any self-propelled, motorized vehicles:
         (a)   Upon private property without the written permission of the
owner or person entitled to possession thereof; subject, however, to the
following:
            1.   Subsection (a) of this division does not apply to motor
vehicles licensed under M.S. Chapter 171, as it may be amended from time to
time, when operated upon private driveways, roadways, lanes, ways or parking
lots where the operation of licensed motor vehicles is not expressly prohibited
by posted notice;
            2.   No person charged under subsection (a) of this division shall
be convicted if he or she produces in court or at the office of the arresting
officer satisfactory written evidence that at the time of the arrest, his or
her presence upon the private property was authorized by the owner or person
entitled to possession thereof;
         (b)   Upon any school ground, park property, playground, recreation
area or golf course, except as and at such times as the proper authorities may
authorize or designate.
   (B)   PROPERTY OF ANOTHER as used in this section means property in which a
person other than the actor has an interest which the actor has no right to
defeat or impair.
(`89 Code, § 171.160)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.13 HARASSING CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   M.S. §§ 609.746, 609.747 and 609.748 as they may be amended from time to
time are adopted by reference.
(`89 Code, § 171.170)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.14 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. The meaning assigned by M.S. § 340.8.101, Subd. 2, as
it may be amended from time to time.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES. The meaning assigned by M.S. § 152.01, Subd. 4, as
it may be amended from time to time.
      DISORDERLY HOUSE. A building, dwelling, establishment, premises or place
where prohibited conduct occurs. If the building, dwelling establishment,
premises or place is a multi-unit dwelling or residence, hotel or motel or
commercial or office building, this definition only includes the dwelling unit,
room or suite of rooms in the hotel or motel, office rooms or suite or store in
which prohibited conduct occurs.
      PROHIBITED CONDUCT. Activities occurring in violation of statutes or
ordinances relating to any of the following:
         (a)   Gambling;
         (b)   Prostitution, acts relating thereto or indecent conduct;
         (c)   Sale or possession of controlled substances;
         (d)   Unlawful sale, possession or consumption of an alcoholic
beverage.
      PROSTITUTION. The meaning assigned by M.S. § 609.321, Subd. 9, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall own, operate, manage, maintain or conduct a
disorderly house or invite or attempt to invite others to visit or remain in
such disorderly house.
      (2)   No person shall visit or remain in a disorderly house for the
purpose of aiding, abetting or engaging in prohibited conduct occurring in such
disorderly house.
      (3)   No person shall visit or remain in a disorderly house knowing or
having reason to know that prohibited conduct in violation of this section is
then occurring.
(`89 Code, § 171.180)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.15 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or  comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTER- TAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:00p.m. and 5:00a.m. the following day, official city time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business trade, profession, or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work.
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor.
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew.
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion.
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next- door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence.
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section apply.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.16 MINORS IN AMUSEMENT PLACES.
   No person, operating or in charge of any place of amusement, entertainment
or refreshment, shall permit any minor under the age of 18 years to remain in
such place during the hours prohibited by this chapter; provided, however, that
the provisions of this section shall not apply when such minor is accompanied
by his or her parent, guardian or other adult having the care and custody of
the minor.
(`89 Code, § 172.020)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.17 OFFENSES INVOLVING THE PERSON.
   (A)   Lurking. No person shall lurk, lie in wait or conceal himself in any
house or other building, or in any yard or premises with the intent to commit
any offense prohibited by the laws of the State or by this Code.
   (B)   Inhalation of chemicals. No person shall inhale, drink or otherwise
take into their body any compound, liquid or chemical containing tuluol,
hexane, trichloroethylene, acetone, toluene, ethyl acetate, methyl ethyl
ketone, trichoroathane, isopropanol, methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl cellosolve
acetate, cyclohexanone or any other substance capable of inducing intoxication,
elation, dizziness, paralysis, irrational behavior or distortion. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to any person who inhales or drinks
such material pursuant to the direction or prescription of any physician.
   (C)   Issuance of worthless checks. Minnesota Criminal Code section 609.535,
as amended, relating to the issuance of worthless checks, is incorporated by
reference in this chapter.
   (D)   Wrongful appropriation. No person shall wilfully take, use, transfer,
conceal or retain the possession of goods, wares or merchandise offered or
exposed for sale in any store or other business establishment with the intent
of converting said property to the taker’s own use and without paying the
purchase price.
   (E)   Theft. Minnesota Criminal Code section 609.52, as amended, relating to
theft, is incorporated by reference in this chapter.
§ 130.18 OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY.
   (A)   Destruction or injury to property. No person shall intentionally
damage any real property, personal property, residence, building or motor
vehicle of another or throw any stone or other missile at such property.
   (B)   Tampering with outdoor warning system. No person not duly authorized
by the City Manager shall use, operate, alter, interfere or tamper with any of
the sirens, switch boxes, installations or equipment of the outdoor warning
system of the city.
   (C)   Damage to political signs. No person shall damage or remove legal
political signs without proper authority.
§ 130.19 OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   (A)   Abandoned ice boxes. No person shall leave in a place accessible to
children any abandoned, unattended or discarded ice box, refrigerator or any
other container of any kind which has an airtight snap lock or other device
without first removing the snap lock or doors from the ice box, refrigerator or
container.
   (B)   Dumping of solid waste. No person shall dump or deposit solid waste at
any place within the city.
   (C)   Discharge of cesspools. No person shall discharge the contents of any
privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, sink or private drain or discharge any
other offensive waste upon the surface of any platted lot, upon any public or
private street, in or upon any surface drain, or in any stream, lake, body of
water or drainage structure within the city.
§ 130.20 DRUGS, CONTROL SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Prohibited drugs and marijuana.
      (1)   Possession. Except as authorized by M.S. § 152.01 et seq., as
amended, no person shall possess or have in their possession or control any
controlled substance.
      (2)   Controlled substances. Controlled substances are defined as all of
the substances listed in M.S. § 152.02, as amended, and also marijuana
(cannabis sativa L).
      (3)   Automobiles. A person who is the owner of a private motor vehicle,
or the driver of the motor vehicle if the owner is not present, and who
possesses on his or her person or keeps or allows to be kept in a motor vehicle
within the area of the vehicle normally occupied by the driver or passengers,
any controlled substance as defined above is guilty of a misdemeanor. This area
of the vehicle shall not include the trunk of the motor vehicle when such
vehicle is equipped with a trunk or another area of the vehicle not normally
occupied by the driver or passengers if the vehicle is not equipped with a
trunk. A utility or glove compartment shall be deemed to be within the area
occupied by the driver and passengers.
      (4)   Violations. Any person violating any of the subsections of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor; further, upon a finding of guilty or a plea
of guilty to any violation of this section, the Court may impose sentence
pursuant to the provisions of M.S. § 152.18, as it may be amended from time to
time, except that such period of probation may be for a period of up to one
year.
   (B)   Drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   Definitions.
         DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind
which are used, intended for use or designed for use, in planting, propagating,
testing, analyzing, pack-aging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of M.S. Chapter 152, as it may be amended
from time to time, which includes, but is not limited to:
            1.   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived.
            2.   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing
controlled substances.
            3.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for
use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance.
            4.   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use
in identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances.
            5.   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances.
            6.   Diluents and adulterants such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose and lactose used, intended for use or designed for
use in cutting controlled substances.
            7.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana.
            8.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances.
            9.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used,
intended for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances.
            10.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or
designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances.
            11.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended
for use or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances
into the human body.
            12.   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in
ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or
hashish oil into the human body, such as:
               a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured
metal bowls.
               b.   Water pipes.
               c.   Carburetion tubes and devices.
               d.   Smoking and carburetion masks.
               e.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material,
such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand.
               f.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials.
               g.   Chamber pipes.
               e.   Carburetor pipes.
               f.   Electric pipes.
               g.   Air-driven pipes.
               h.   Chillums.
               i.   Bongs.
               j.   Ice pipes or chillers.
            13.   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a
court or other authority shall consider, in addition to all the other logically
relevant factors the following:
               a.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the
object concerning its use.
               b.   Prior convictions, if any, of the owner or of anyone in
control of the object of any State or Federal law relating to any controlled
substance.
               c.   The proximity of the object in time and space to the direct
violation of this section.
               d.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances.
               e.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on
the object.
               f.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner
or of anyone in control of the object to deliver it to persons whom the person
in control knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to
facilitate a violation of this section; the innocence of an owner or of anyone
in control of the object, as a direct violation of this section shall not
prevent a finding that the object is intended for use or designed for use as
drug paraphernalia.
               g.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use.
               h.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain
or depict its use.
               i.   National and local advertising concerning its use.
               j.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
               k.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
               l.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of
the object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise.
               m.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object
in the community.
               n.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
      (2)   Other terms. The terms CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE, MANUFACTURING,
MARIJUANA and PERSON are defined as specified in M.S. § 152.01, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   Offenses and penalties.
      (1)   Possession of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person to
use or to possess with intent to use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in
violation of this section.
      (2)   Manufacture or delivery of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for
any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver or manufacture with
intent to deliver drug paraphernalia knowing, or under circumstances where one
reasonably should know, that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate,
grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in violation of
this section.
      (3)   Advertisement of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person
to place or cause to be placed in any newspaper, magazine, handbill or other
publication any advertisement knowing, or under circumstances where one
reasonably should know, that the purpose of the advertisement, in whole or in
part, is to promote the sale of objects designed or intended for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (4)   Penalty. Any person who violates subsections (1), (2) or (3) of
this division is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Forfeiture. Upon final conviction for violation of the provisions of
this section, all drug paraphernalia seized as evidence shall be turned over to
the Chief of Police. Any such evidence which is adaptable to police purposes
may be kept and used by the Police Department. Such evidence which is usable or
adaptable for use in a lawful manner may be sold by the Chief of Police at a
public auction sale following at least two weeks’ published notice of such
sale. Such evidence which would be dangerous or unlawful to reintroduce into
channels of private sale or use may, in the discretion of the Chief of Police,
be destroyed.
§ 130.21 FLEEING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A) Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the term PEACE OFFICER
shall be that set forth in M.S. § 609.487, Subd. 2. For purposes of this
section, the term FLEE means to elude or attempt to elude a peace officer by
means other than a motor vehicle following a request to stop given by a peace
officer.
   (B)   Penalty. Whoever, by means other than a motor vehicle, flees or
attempts to flee a peace officer who is acting in the lawful discharge of an
official duty, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 130.22 NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made any
distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures
or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or welfare of any
persons or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
the following subdivisions.
   (B)   Noisy assembly. A noisy assembly under this section means any
gathering of more than one person in a residentially zoned area or within, at
or upon, the grounds of a private residence which unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or
welfare of any persons or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects
their property value. Any such gathering between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the property line of a
structure or building in which it is located or in the hallway or apartment
adjacent shall be prima facie evidence that the noise is excessive. No person
shall knowingly remain at a noisy assembly. No person shall permit property
under his/her control to be used for noisy assembly.
   (C)   Amplified sound. No person shall use, operate or permit the use or
operation of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, tape
recorder, paging system, compact disc player, or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly audible manner
as unreasonably disturbs the peace, quiet and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any such radio, instrument, phonograph, compact disc player or
other device in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the property line of
a structure or building in which it is located, in the hallway or apartment
adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a
structure or building, shall be a violation of this section.
   (D)   Motor vehicles. When sound violating this section is produced or
reproduced from a motor vehicle, the owner of the motor vehicle, if present
when the violation occurs, is guilty of the violation. If the owner of the
motor vehicle is not present, the person who has dominion, care or control of
the motor vehicle at the time of the violation is guilty of the violation. In
addition, any person who controls or assists with the production, reproduction
or amplification of sound in violation of this section is guilty of the
violation.
   (E)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, and between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays. No person shall engage in or permit commercial
construction activity on Sundays or holidays.
§ 130.23 CATALYTIC CONVERTERS.
   (A)   Sale of catalytic converters. No person or business may sell a used
catalytic converter that is not attached to a vehicle. This section does not
apply to a bona fide automobile repair garage, or used auto parts dealer, whose
license permits the installation, replacement, maintenance, or removal of
catalytic converters. The purchase of any catalytic converter must meet the
recording requirements laid out in M.S. § 325E.21, Subd. 1(b).
   (B)   Purchase of catalytic converters. No person or business may purchase a
used catalytic converter that is not attached to a vehicle unless the seller is
a licensed business, whose license permits the installation, replacement,
maintenance, or removal of catalytic converters.
   (C)   Possession of catalytic converters. No person shall be in possession
of a catalytic converter that is not attached to a motor vehicle unless the
individual can provide verification of legal receipt of the catalytic converter
or proof of compliance with the recording requirements laid out in M.S. §
325E.21, Subd. 1(b).
   (D)   Penalty. Violation of this section is a misdemeanor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to limit the city’s other available legal remedies
for any violation of law, including without limitation, criminal, civil, and
injunctive actions.
(Ord. 810, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 130.24 PUBLIC USE OF HEMP AND CANNABIS PRODUCTS.
   (a)   Definitions. The definitions in M.S. § 342.01 apply to this section.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CANNABIS FLOWER. The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a
cannabis plant. CANNABIS FLOWER includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical
cannabis flower. CANNABIS FLOWER does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant
parts, or hemp-derived consumer products.
      CANNABIS PLANT. All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is
growing or has not been harvested and has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration of more than 0.3 percent on a dry weight basis.
      CANNABIS PRODUCT. Any of the following: (1) cannabis concentrate; (2) a
product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited to
tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
flower; or (3) any other product that contains cannabis concentrate. CANNABIS
PRODUCT includes adult-use cannabis products, including but not limited to
edible cannabis products and medical cannabinoid products.
      ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering a
substance intended for human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or
vapor from the product. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited
to,  devices manufactured, marketed or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes,
vape pens, mods, tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor.
      HEMP PLANT. All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is growing
or has not been harvested and has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration
of no more than 0.3 percent on a dry weight basis.
      HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCT. A product intended for human or animal
consumption, does not contain cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and (1)
contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or (2) contains hemp concentrate or
artificially derived cannabinoids in combination with other ingredients.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A property owned, leased, or controlled by a governmental
unit and private property that is regularly and frequently open to or made
available for use by the public in sufficient numbers to give clear notice of
the property's current dedication to public use but does not include the
following:
         (1)   A private residence including the person’s curtilage or yard;
         (2)   Private property not generally accessible by the public, unless
the person is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower, cannabis
products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products on the
property by the owner of the property; or
         (3)   The premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit on-
site consumption.
      SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe or any other lighted or heated product that is intended
for inhalation. SMOKING includes using an electronic delivery device.
   (b)   Prohibited activity. No person shall smoke cannabis flower, cannabis
products, hemp plant, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place.
   (c)   Penalty. Violation of this section shall be a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 821, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violated any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty has been established shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Curfew penalties.
      (1)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of §
130.15 may be adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional
alternatives set forth in M.S. § 260.185, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of §
130.15 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
   
131.01   General
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Persons prohibited from possessing firearms
   
131.04   Possession of certain items prohibited
   
131.05   Weapons prohibited
   
131.06   Carrying firearms
   
131.07   Carrying concealed weapons; permits
   
131.08   Unlawful discharge
   
131.09   Discharges permitted
   
131.10   Manufacturing, selling, sling shot or sand club
   
131.11   Metal knuckles, switchblades
   
131.12   Silencers
   
131.13   Transporting
   
131.14   Effect of provisions on other laws, private rights
§ 131.01 GENERAL.
   The sale, purchase, possession and use of weapons, except pistols, within
the city shall be subject to the following provisions set forth in this
chapter.
(`89 Code, § 171.010(part))
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMMUNITION. Any projectile, bullet or other mass prepared for insertion in
and propulsion from any firearm.
   ASSAULT WEAPON. Any weapon other than a firearm or military type weapon
having the personal assault characteristics of any sap, numchucks, blackjack,
slungshot, slingshot, sand club, chain club, metal knuckles, shurikens or
yawara stick.
   CONCEALED MANNER. Having the object on the person in such a manner so that
it is not completely visible to any other person. Having a knife in a sheath
shall be considered as having the knife concealed, irrespective of position of
the sheath on the person.
   FIREARM. Any weapon, except pistols, from which is propelled any missile,
projectile, bullet or other mass through a barrel by means of explosives or gas
or air, excluding devices used exclusively for the firing of stud cartridges,
explosive rivets or similar industrial apparatus and instruments or equipment
when used by licensed physicians or veterinarians in the course and scope of
their professions.
   KNIFE. Dirk, dagger, stiletto, switchblade knife, spring blade knife, push
button knife, a folding knife with a blade in excess of four inches, a machete,
a bayonet or any fixed bladed knife carried in a concealed manner or within
reach of any person in a motor vehicle.
   MILITARY TYPE WEAPON. Any destructive device and the ammunition designed
only for such device having firepower, mass, explosive or incendiary
characteristics of weapons such as cannons having a bore diameter larger than
one-half inch, bazookas, machine guns, fully automatic weapons, mortars,
grenades, Molotov cocktails, but not including shotguns, rifles, pistols or
revolvers.
   NUMCHUCKS. Any device constructed of two solid cylindrical objects joined
together on one end by a chain, rope, thong or other such material.
   OFFICIALLY RECOGNIZED COMPETITION. All competitions held under the
sponsorship of a bona fide target shooting or sportsmen’s club or bona fide
educational institution.
   PISTOL. Any firearm having a barrel of less than 18 inches in length and
capable of being concealed on the person.
   SECURED CONTAINER. A locked case legibly marked “weapon” having no
mechanical features designed for immediate weapons removal or use and
containing no other non-related objects; except that a SECURED CONTAINER for a
rifle or shotgun may mean a weapon case, such as leather, fibre, canvas or
plastic secured with a zipper, clasp, buckle or ties.
   SHURIKENS. Any metal device which has the shape of a multiple pointed star,
each point being sharpened and primarily designed to be thrown.
   STUN GUN. Any device that can be or is placed on or in the near vicinity of
the body of a person or other living creature; that emits or utilizes
electricity in whatever form; and is placed on or in the near vicinity of the
body of any person or other living creature and then emits or utilizes
electricity for the purpose of intimidating, incapacitating, injuring or
otherwise immobilizing said person or creature. STUN GUN does not mean a cattle
prod that is utilized in bona fide agricultural and animal husbandry
activities.
   YAWARA STICK. Any cylindrical shaped object which has spheres on both ends
and measures less than ten inches in length.
(`89 Code, § 171.010(1)
§ 131.03 PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM POSSESSING FIREARMS.
   (A)   Minors; exceptions. No person who has not attained the age of 18 years
shall have any firearm in his or her custody or control or carry the same on
his or her person within the limits of the city, except when accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian, while participating under adult supervision as a
member of a registered target shooting or sportsmen’s club, gun training
program, gun show, parade or similar event for which a permit has been issued
by the Chief of Police, or he or she unless holds a firearms safety certificate
recognized by the Commissioner of Natural Resources or is actually enrolled in
a program to obtain the same.
   (B)   Felons, other. No person shall have any firearms in possession or
control, or carry the same within the limits of the city, who has been
convicted of any felony or who is under the influence of drugs or alcohol,
unless holding a permit pursuant to M.S. § 624.713, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(`89 Code, § 171.010(2))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 131.04 POSSESSION OF CERTAIN ITEMS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall possess any of the following:
   (A)   Fully automatic firearms;
   (B)   Shot guns with a barrel less than 18 inches;
   (C)   Rifles with a barrel less than 16 inches;
   (D)   Weapons made from a rifle or shot gun with an overall length of less
than 26 inches;
   (E)   Semi-automatic pistols with shoulder stocks;
   (F)   Any silencer;
   (G)   Any unconventional weapon which is capable of being fired and can be
concealed on the person.
(`89 Code, § 171.010(3))
§ 131.05 WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep, carry or have in his or her possession on any public
street or being a trespasser upon the premises of another or in a public place
in the city any military type weapon, any assault weapon, any stolen weapon or
any knife, except military personnel or peace officers engaged in the course of
their duties, unless he or she holds a permit to possess the same as
collector’s items or for use in officially recognized competition.
(`89 Code, § 171.010(4))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 131.06 CARRYING FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall carry on his or her person or have in his or her
possession or control in any public place any firearm, except as provided in
this section and except the following persons:
      (1)   Peace officers;
      (2)   Military personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Persons holding permits to carry a firearm pursuant to this section
while carrying on their occupations;
      (4)   The Honor Guard or Drill Team of any nationally recognized
veterans’ organization.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, PUBLIC PLACE includes private
gatherings in buildings or locations not ordinarily considered public places
if, on the occasion of the gathering, ten or more unrelated persons are
present, but PUBLIC PLACE shall not include private residences or premises
licensed for the sale of firearms.
(`89 Code, § 171.010(5))
§ 131.07 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS; PERMITS.
   (A)   No person within the limits of the city shall carry or wear concealed
about his or her person any dagger, sling shot or knuckles of lead, brass or
other metal, bowie knife, dirk knife, switch-blade knife, razor or any sort or
description of firearms or any dangerous or deadly weapons.
   (B)   Any such weapon adjudged by the duly established courts of the city to
have been worn or carried by any person in violation of this section shall be
confiscated by the city and handed over to the Police Department and kept, sold
or disposed of according to law.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to police officers
while on duty, nor to any officer of any court whose duty it may be to serve
warrants or make arrests, nor to persons whose business or occupation may
require the carrying of weapons for protection and who have obtained a permit
to carry a concealed weapon from the Chief of Police.
   (D)   The Chief of Police may grant to any person, pursuant to M.S. §
624.7131, as it may be amended from time to time, a permit to carry concealed
weapons and may revoke any such permit for cause.
(`89 Code, § 171.010(6))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 131.08 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge a firearm of any
kind, bow and arrow, air gun, BB gun, sling shot or any similar device for the
propulsion of shots or metal pellets by means of compressed air, gas or
mechanical spring action within the city; except by a sworn peace officer who
does so as a part of official duty.
(`89 Code, § 171.010(7))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 131.09 DISCHARGES PERMITTED.
   The following uses of guns and weapons shall be considered to be exceptions
to the provisions contained herein and shall be permitted uses of guns and
weapons in the city: Discharge of a gun or firearm or other weapon of any kind
for the purpose of self-defense.
(`89 Code, § 171.010(8))
§ 131.10 MANUFACTURING, SELLING, SLING SHOT OR SAND CLUB.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture or sell for any unlawful
purpose any weapon known as a sling shot or sand club.
(`89 Code, § 171.010(9))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 131.11 METAL KNUCKLES, SWITCHBLADES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, transfer or possess
metal knuckles or a switchblade knife opening automatically.
(`89 Code, § 171.010(1))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 131.12 SILENCERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or have in possession any device
designed to silence or muffle the discharge of a firearm.
(`89 Code, § 171.010(11))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 131.13 TRANSPORTING.
   Except as permitted by special permit, it shall be unlawful to take any wild
animal by means of discharging any firearm or bow and arrow thereat from a
motor vehicle or airplane or snowmobile or to transport any firearm in a motor
vehicle or airplane or snowmobile or to transport any firearm unless unloaded
and contained in the trunk of a car with the trunk door closed, or in the case
of a bow and arrow, unless unstrung or contained in a case or unless contained
in the trunk of a car with the trunk door closed.
(`89 Code, § 171.010(12))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 131.14 EFFECT OF PROVISIONS ON OTHER LAWS, PRIVATE RIGHTS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as allowing the
discharge of any firearm, air gun or other weapon if such discharge is
prohibited by any law of the state or any of its subdivisions nor shall this
chapter enlarge the civil rights of any person.
(`89 Code, § 171.010(13))
CHAPTER 132: SKATEBOARDS AND INLINE SKATES
Section
   
132.01   Purpose
   
132.02   Definition
   
132.03   Prohibited acts
   
132.04   Skateboard ramps
   
132.05   Fees
   
132.06   Waiver
   
132.07   Right-of-way
   
132.08   Hours of operation
   
132.09   Violations
§ 132.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health and safety, to
regulate the use upon public streets and sidewalks and to prohibit the use in
certain parts of the city.
(`89 Code, § 174.010)
§ 132.02 DEFINITION.
   INLINE SKATES. A shoe with wheels attached or a device with wheels which is
designed to be attached to a shoe. (This includes roller blades and roller
skates.)
   ROLLER SKIS.  A pair of skis platformed with wheels attached which is
intended to simulate skiing.
   SKATEBOARD. A device for riding upon, usually while standing, consisting of
a piece of wood or other composition mounted on skate wheels.
(`89 Code, § 174.020)
§ 132.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or propel oneself upon a
skateboard in any of the following circumstances.
   (A)   General rule. On a street, alley, sidewalk or parking area within the
Downtown Business District defined as follows: Highway 36 on the north,
McKnight Road on the west, Seventh Avenue from McKnight to First Street and the
alley south of Seventh Avenue from First Street to Highway 120 on the south and
Highway #120 on the east.
   (B)   Streets. Upon the shoulder or main-traveled portion of a state or
county road within the city.
   (C)   Traffic. In a place where the surface or traffic conditions render the
place unsafe for skateboarding.
   (D)   Private property. On private property without the prior express
permission of the owner of the property.
   (E)   Designated public areas. In public parks or areas therein which are
signed “No Skateboards.”
   (F)   While being pushed, pulled or propelled. In any area of the city while
being pushed, pulled or in anyway propelled by any motorized vehicle or by a
person on a bicycle.
   (G)   Tennis court. On any public tennis court.
(`89 Code, § 174.030)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 132.04 SKATEBOARD RAMPS.
   (A)   Skateboard ramps higher than 30 inches require a building permit
pursuant to the Minnesota State Building Code and a special use permit from the
City Council.
   (B)   Before a building permit and a conditional use permit shall be
granted, the following conditions must be determined by the City Council and
included in the permits:
      (1)   The ramp must be located on the property of the builder and must be
at least six feet from any property line;
      (2)   The ramp must be constructed to adequately handle the use proposed;
      (3)   The consent of all adjacent neighbors in writing must be submitted
to the city along with the application for the permits;
      (4)   Applicants for the permits must, in writing, detail how they will
keep noise to a minimum;
      (5)   Hours of operation;
      (6)   Maximum number of people who would use the ramp at any one time;
      (7)   The length of time the ramp will remain on the property.
   (C)   No building or conditional use permit shall be granted without a
public hearing and notice to all persons within 300 feet of the property where
the ramp is located.
(`89 Code, § 174.040)
§ 132.05 FEES.
   Fees shall be set by Council ordinance.
(`89 Code, § 174.050)
§ 132.06 WAIVER.
   The City Manager is authorized to waive any provision of this chapter,
except §
132.05, if he or she makes a finding that such a waiver would be in the best
interest of the city.
(`89 Code, § 174.060)
§ 132.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The operator of inline skates, roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or
a skateboard emerging from any alley, driveway, or building, upon approaching a
sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, shall yield the
right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area
and upon entering the street shall yield the right- of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the street.
§ 132.08 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to use inline skates, roller blades, roller
skates, roller skis or a skateboard upon a public street, sidewalk, or other
roadway from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., except on private property with express
permission of owner, and except if the roller blades, roller skates, roller
skis, skateboard or operator are equipped with reflective surfaces that shall
be visible during the hours of darkness from 600 feet when viewed in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. The reflective material
shall be a minimum of 40 square inches. All reflective materials used in
compliance with this section shall meet the requirements as prescribed by the
Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 132.09 VIOLATIONS.
   A person apprehended by a peace officer in violation of the provisions of
this chapter does, by his or her use of the public sidewalks, streets, and
public parking lots, consent to the impoundment by a police officer of the
inline skates, roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or skateboard for a
period of three days upon a first offense, a week upon the second offense and
30 days upon a third or additional offense. Any operator aggrieved by the
impoundment of his or her inline skates, roller blades, roller skates, roller
skis or skateboard may petition the Council for a hearing thereon at the next
regular Council meeting following the impoundment. This provision is in
addition to the provisions for fines and penalties as set forth in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 133: FIREWORKS
Section
   
133.01   Governing regulations
   
133.02   Acts prohibited without permit
   
133.03   Permit application
   
133.04   Terms and conditions for issuance of permit
   
133.05   Discharge rules and regulations
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 GOVERNING REGULATIONS.
   Fireworks are regulated by M.S. §§ 624.20 to 624.25, as they may be amended
from time to time. In addition to these regulations all display, sales, storage
for commercial purposes, manufacturing, and use of consumer fireworks shall
comply with this chapter.
(Ord. 637, passed 6-4-2003)
§ 133.02 ACTS PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   No person, without securing a permit, shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Manufacture, store or sell any fireworks;
   (B)   Make a public display of fireworks.
(Ord. 637, passed 6-4-2003)
§ 133.03 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for the permit for the manufacturing, storage for
commercial purposes, and sale of fireworks shall be made to the Fire Chief a
minimum of ten days prior to operating.
   (B)   Permits shall be issued for a period of one calendar year.
   (C)   Prior to processing the application a criminal records check must be
conducted. Neither the applicant nor the responsible party for the permit shall
have been convicted of a felony or a fire/fireworks- related misdemeanor within
the last three years.
   (D)   Prior to processing the application, the Fire Chief shall determine
that the proposed location complies with State Fire Code and this chapter.
   (E)   The application shall include: a letter from the person legally
responsible for the property on which the fireworks related activity will
occur. Such letter shall grant permission to the applicant for the use of the
property.
   (F)   The application shall include: a floor plan designating the area for
manufacturing, storage for commercial purposes or display, along with a list
documenting the name, weight, and quantity of the fireworks within the building
and the material safety data sheets.
   (G)   Any permit granted hereunder shall be nontransferable.
   (H)   Permit fee. The fee shall be the fee maximum allowable by State Law.
(Ord. 637, passed 6-4-2003)
§ 133.04 TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   A permit for manufacturing, storage for commercial purposes, or retail sale
of common fireworks shall be issued only upon the following terms and
conditions:
   (A)   Manufacturing, storage for commercial purposes, or retail sale may
only occur in the appropriate industrial or commercial zoning districts and
must comply with all applicable city ordinances. No exterior storage, display,
sales or transient sales of fireworks are permitted. No manufacturing, sales or
storage for commercial purposes shall occur on residentially zone property or
properties used for educational purposes or assemblies. Transient sales are
prohibited except in B2 and B3 Zoning Districts.
   (B)   Smoking shall not be permitted in any building or tenant space where
fireworks are manufactured, stored for commercial purposes or sold. Areas where
fireworks are manufactured, stored for commercial purposes or sold shall be
provided with approved “no smoking” signs in red letters not less than two
inches in height on white background. All signs shall be maintained in legible
condition.
   (C)   Fireworks may not be discharged from any building or site from which
they are manufactured, stored for commercial purposes or sold.
   (D)   Each permit holder shall have not less than two water-type or
equivalent extinguishers of not less than two and one-half gallon capacity in
approved locations.
   (E)   There shall be at least two code compliant exits from all buildings
from which fireworks are manufactured, stored for commercial purposes or sold.
   (F)   In buildings without an approved automatic sprinkler system retail
consumer fireworks indoor sales displays shall be limited to 500 pounds gross
weight.
   (G)   Buildings protected throughout by an approved automatic sprinkler
system shall be limited to 1,000 pounds gross weight.
   (H)   Fireworks permits shall be posted in a conspicuous location near the
main entrance.
   (I)   A list of all consumer fireworks displayed and stored on the property
shall be available at all times. The list shall document the name, weight, and
quantity of the fireworks and be accompanied by the material safety data
sheets.
   (J)   Upon request samples of the fireworks shall be made available to the
Fire Chief for testing or firefighter training.
   (K)   Manufacturing, warehouse buildings, or display in excess of the
quantities listed in divisions (H) and (I) for retail consumer fireworks shall
be classified as an H occupancy and protected similar to explosives and
aerosols.
   (L)   A handout describing fireworks safety and the city ignition device
ordinance shall be provided to each consumer purchasing fireworks.
(Ord. 637, passed 6-4-2003)
§ 133.05 DISCHARGE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to use, fire, or discharge any fireworks along the
route of and during any parade or at any place of public assembly or in any
commercial/industrial district.
   (B)   It is unlawful at any time to throw or toss any fireworks at any
person, animal, vehicle or other thing or object or used in any manner that may
threaten or cause possible harm to life or property.
   (C)   The discharge of fireworks shall be prohibited within 25 feet of any
building.
   (D)   Fireworks may only be discharged in an area with a water source
connected to a hose or where there is another approved means of extinguishing a
fire.
   (E)   The Fire Chief may ban fireworks if dry or windy conditions occur.
   (F)   Juveniles may not possess fireworks unless under the direct
supervision of a responsible adult.
   (G)   Fireworks may not be discharged in such a manner that may create a
nuisance nor between the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m.
(Ord. 637, passed 6-4-2003)
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Materials which violate and/or pose a threat to public safety may be
confiscated and destroyed. Costs associated with disposal shall be assessed
back to the property.
   (B)   Violations of this city ordinance, or state statute may result in
revocation of the permit.
   (C)   Violations of this city ordinance, is a misdemeanor offense,
punishable by fines up to $1,000 and/or 90 days in jail.
(Ord. 637, passed 6-4-2003)
CHAPTER 134: REGULATION OF UNATTENDED COLLECTION BINS
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Permits
   
134.03   Renewal of permits
   
134.04   Requirements and maintenance
   
134.05   Revocation of permit, removal of unattended collection bins and
liability
   
134.06   Violation; penalty
   
134.07   Appeals to City Council
   
134.08   Violations, enforcement, actions and remedies
   
134.09   Existing conditions
   
134.10   No mandatory duty of care
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of North St. Paul or designee.
   INCIDENTAL USE. A subordinate use limited to 120 square feet.
   OPERATOR. A person who utilizes or maintains unattended collection bin/box
(es) to solicit donations of salvageable personal property.
   PERMITTEE. The property owner who is issued a permit authorizing placement
of unattended collection bin(s).
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person who owns the real property where the unattended
collection bin(s) are or are proposed to be located.
   UNATTENDED COLLECTION BINS. Any unattended container, receptacle, or similar
device that is located on any lot within the city and that is used for
soliciting and collecting donations of clothing or other salvageable personal
property. This term does not include trash or recycle bins for the collection
of waste material governed or regulated by this Code.
(Ord. 702, passed 12-21-2010)
§ 134.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   It is unlawful and a public nuisance for any property owner or other
person to place, operate, maintain or allow unattended collection bins on real
property unless:
      (1)   The person placing the box on first obtains a permit pursuant to
this chapter; and
      (2)   The collection box is placed, operated and maintained in accordance
with all provisions in this chapter.
   (B)   The permit application shall be made on a form provided by the city
and shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, email, website (if available) and telephone
number of the applicant.
      (2)   The text of the disclosures that will be made on the unattended
donation box as to a non- profit or a for-profit organization.
      (3)   The physical address of the property owner's real property and a
drawing sufficient to indicate the proposed location of the unattended donation
box on the property owner's real property and the size of the proposed
unattended donation box.
      (4)   The written consent of the property owner on which the box will be
placed is expressly given by the permittee.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee in the
amount established by the City Council. This fee shall be in addition to any
fee or tax imposed by the city pursuant to any other provision of this Code.
   (D)   Applications shall be filed with the City Manager.
   (E)   Within 60 days of receiving a completed application, the City Manager
or designee shall issue a permit or deny the issuance of a permit.
   (F)   The City Manager shall not issue a permit unless:
      (1)   The applicant has submitted a complete and accurate application
accompanied by the applicable fee; and
      (2)   The proposed location of the unattended donation box on the
property owner's real property is in compliance with all applicable laws.
   (G)   If the City Manager denies an application, the City Manager shall
state, in writing, the specific reasons for denial.
   (H)   The term of the permit shall expire one year from the date of
issuance.
   (I)   No person to whom a permit has been issued shall transfer, assign, or
convey such permit to another person.
   (J)   Prior to expiration of the permit, the permittee may voluntarily
cancel the permit by notifying the City Manager in writing. The permit shall
become void upon the City Manager's receipt of a written notice.
(Ord. 702, passed 12-21-2010)
§ 134.03 RENEWAL OF PERMITS.
   (A)   A permittee may apply for permit renewal by submitting to the City
Manager before the expiration of the permit, a renewal application and a non-
refundable fee in an amount set by the City Council.
   (B)   The City Manager shall either approve or deny the renewal of a permit
within 60 days of receipt of the complete renewal application and payment of
the renewal fee. The failure of the City Manager to timely act shall constitute
approval of the renewal of the permit.
   (C)   The City Manager shall approve the renewal of a permit if he or she
finds that no circumstances existed during the term of the permit, existed at
the time of submission of an application for renewal, or existed at any time
during the review of the application for renewal that are inconsistent with any
finding required for approval of a new permit as specified or that would
justify the revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 702, passed 12-21-2010)
§ 134.04 REQUIREMENTS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   A permittee shall locate all unattended collection bins as follows:
      (1)   An unattended collection bin may not be placed within the required
front yard setback.
      (2)   An unattended collection bin may not be placed within 20 feet of
the side property line.
      (3)   An unattended collection bin may not be placed on a vacant lot.
   (B)   A permittee shall operate and maintain or cause to be operated and
maintained all unattended collection bins located in the city as follows:
      (1)   Unattended collection bins shall be maintained in good condition
and appearance with no structural damage, holes, or visible rust, and shall be
free of graffiti;
      (2)   Unattended collection bins shall be locked or otherwise secured;
      (3)   Unattended collection bins shall contain the following contact
information visible from the front of each unattended collection bin: the name,
address, email, and phone number of both the permittee and operator;
      (4)   Unattended collection bins shall be serviced and emptied as needed,
but at least every 30 days.
   (C)   The permittee shall maintain or cause to be maintained the area
surrounding the unattended collection bin(s) free of any junk, debris or other
material and shall be responsible to the extent provided by law for the cost to
abate any violation.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, it is unlawful for
any person to place an unattended collection bin in any residential district
except on educational or religious organizational property.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, it is unlawful to
locate any unattended collection bin less than 400 feet from any other
unattended collection bin.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, it is unlawful to
locate more than one unattended collection bin on each parcel of real property.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, it is unlawful to
locate any unattended collection bin on required parking spaces.
(Ord. 702, passed 12-21-2010) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 134.05 REVOCATION OF PERMIT, REMOVAL OF UNATTENDED COLLECTION BINS AND
LIABILITY.
   The City Manager shall have the right for cause to revoke any permit issued
hereunder. Any of the grounds upon which he or she may refuse to issue an
initial permit shall also constitute grounds for such revocation. In addition,
the failure of the permittee to comply with the provisions of this chapter or
other provisions of this Code or other law shall also constitute grounds for
revocation of the permit. The City Manager shall provide a written notification
to the permittee stating the specific grounds for revocation. Upon revocation,
the unattended donation box shall be removed from the permittee's real property
within 30 days and if not removed within this time period, the city may remove,
store and dispose of the unattended collection bin at the expense of the
permittee. Upon revocation, a permittee shall be prohibited from applying for a
permit for a period of one year. Any violation of the provisions of this
chapter is a public nuisance subject to abatement.
(Ord. 702, passed 12-21-2010)
§ 134.06 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 702, passed 12-21-2010) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 134.07 APPEALS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision rendered by the City Manager in
granting or denying an application for a permit under this chapter or in
revoking a permit issued under this chapter may appeal the decision to the City
Council. The appeal shall be made by filing a written notice thereof with the
City Clerk not later than ten days after receiving notice of the decision of
the City Manager. The City Council shall hold a hearing on the appeal and its
decision thereon shall be final.
(Ord. 702, passed 12-21-2010)
§ 134.08 VIOLATIONS. ENFORCEMENT, ACTIONS AND REMEDIES.
   Each failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or any regulation
promulgated under this chapter is unlawful and constitutes a public nuisance.
(Ord. 702, passed 12-21-2010) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 134.09 EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all unattended collection bins
located within the city as of the effective date of this chapter. All persons
who have one or more unattended collection bins located on their real property
as of the effective date of this chapter shall have 60 days from that date to
file an application for a permit as provided for in this chapter. Any such
person who has filed a timely application for a permit shall not be subject to
the provisions of this chapter relating to unattended collection bins until a
permit is issued or denied to the applicant.
(Ord. 702, passed 12-21-2010)
§ 134.10 NO MANDATORY DUTY OF CARE.
   This chapter is not intended to and shall not be construed or given effect
in a manner that imposes upon the city or any officer or employee thereof a
mandatory duty of care towards persons and property within or without the city,
so as to provide a basis of civil liability for damages, except as otherwise
imposed by law.
(Ord. 702, passed 12-21-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
   
152.   STRUCTURES AND PREMISES MAINTENANCE AND OCCUPANCY CODE
   
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
   
154.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
APPENDIX A: TABLES
      
APPENDIX B: FIGURES
   
155.   BUILDING CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
   
156.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
   
157.   SIGN ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   State Building Code adopted
   
150.002   Reserved
   
150.003   Building Inspector
   
150.004   Deputies
   
150.005   Moving of existing buildings
   
150.006   Minimum sizes
   
150.007   Driveways
   
150.008   Fences
   
150.009   Waterproofing and damp-proofing
   
150.010   Drainage
   
150.011   Plot plan information
   
150.012   Building permits not to be issued
   
150.013   Non-conventional buildings
Heating Inspectors and Permits
   
150.025   Definitions
   
150.026   Heating inspection
   
150.027   Powers and duties
   
150.028   Interference with inspectors
   
150.029   Permits required
   
150.030   Limitation on permits
   
150.031   Permit fees
   
150.032   Work without permits
   
150.033   Permit expirations
   
150.034   Inspections
   
150.035   Work stopped by Inspector
   
150.036   Best possible materials and workmanship
Electrical Code
   
150.050   Electrical Inspector
   
150.051   Powers and duties
   
150.052   Dangerous equipment or wiring
   
150.053   Application
   
150.054   Statutes adopted by reference
   
150.055   Inspection fees
   
150.056   Violations
Plumbing Code
   
150.070   Minnesota Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.071   Copies of Code to be filed
   
150.072   Permits required
   
150.073   Permit fees
   
150.074   Sewer and water connections in same trench
   
150.075   Inspections by city
Environmental Policy
   
150.085   Environmental review program
   
150.086   Cost of preparation and review
   
150.087   Administration
   
150.088   Optional EAW
   
150.089   Enforcement
Swimming Pools
   
150.100   Definitions
   
150.101   Permits
   
150.102   Safety requirements
   
150.103   Operation and maintenance
   
150.104   Inspections
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The Minnesota State Building Code, as adopted by the State pursuant to M.S.
Chapter 326B, including all of the amendments, rules and regulations
established, adopted and published as it may be amended from time to time, one
copy of which has been marked as the official copy and which is on file in the
office of the City Manager, is hereby adopted as the Building Code for the
city. Every provision contained in the Minnesota State Building Code, with the
exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically adopted in this
ordinance, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as if fully set
forth herein. The following optional provisions identified in the most current
edition of the State Building Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as part
of the building code for the city:
   (A)   Chapter 1306, Special Fire Protection Systems, Subpart 3, new
construction only.
(`89 Code, § 20.010) (Ord. 664, passed 10-2-2007; Am. Ord. 681, passed 6-9-09)
§ 150.002 RESERVED.
§ 150.003 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Manager shall appoint and supervise the Building Inspector. The
Building Inspector, to qualify for appointment, shall have a thorough
understanding of the State Building Code and the ordinances of the city, which
he or she is charged with enforcing, and he or she shall have at least five
year’s experience in one or more of the following fields of endeavor:
      (1)   Building Inspector;
      (2)   Architect;
      (3)   Structural engineer; or
      (4)   Construction Superintendent.
   (B)   During tenure of office, the Building Inspector shall not be engaged
or employed in any business that falls under the regulatory control of the
office. As remuneration for services, the Building Inspector shall be paid as
provided for by Council resolution.
   (C)   The Building Inspector may be removed at the pleasure of the Manager.
(`89 Code, § 20.030)
§ 150.004 DEPUTIES.
   (A)   The Manager may appoint as many Deputy Building Inspectors as deemed
necessary. To qualify as a Deputy Building Inspector, the appointee shall have
the same qualifications as those established for the Building Inspector;
however, the Manager may waive such of the qualifications as may be to the
public’s interest.
   (B)   The Deputies may be removed at the pleasure of the Manager.
(`89 Code, § 20.040)
§ 150.005 MOVING OF EXISTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association or corporation desiring to move any
existing building or structure to within or to outside the city shall comply
with the following:
      (1)   Apply for a moving permit from the Building Official prior to said
building or structure being moved;
      (2)   Satisfy all requirements of division (B) of this section;
      (3)   Each application shall be accompanied with a detailed construction
plan showing how the building or structure, along with the property to where
the building or structure is to be located, is to be remodeled; said plan shall
show all the work to be done as well as the costs for such work; the Building
Officials shall use this plan when inspecting the building or structure and
shall make sure that said plan is complete, and if not complete shall add to
said plan each and every item necessary, as well as cost, to make the moved
building or structure a finished product and that it conforms with the Building
Code;
      (4)   Every permittee shall remove all rubbish and materials and fill all
excavations to existing grade at the original building site, when located in
the city, so that the premises are left in a safe and sanitary condition. The
performance bond required in subsection (8) below shall also include clearing
to old premises, with the exception that the work to be done in this case must
be done within 30 days;
      (5)   In addition to all other work, each plan shall show the following:
         (a)   Painting. Paint or cause to be painted all exterior walls, doors
and door frames, windows and frames as well as screen and storm windows or the
building or structure moved, unless waived by Building Official.
         (b)   Roofing. Install or cause to be installed new roofing upon such
building whenever in the opinion of the Building Officials the existing roofing
is unsightly, dilapidated or leaking.
         (c)   Gutters. Construct, install or cause to be installed adequate
roof gutters and downspouts upon any such building.
         (d)   Grading and sodding. Install or cause to be installed a finished
grade on all parts of the premises on which such building or structure is
moved, including the planting or installation of live sodding on all parts of
the plot or parcel involved.
         (e)   Landscaping. Install or cause to be installed proper landscaping
upon the premises on which such building or structure is to be moved, said
landscaping to conform to surrounding neighborhood.
         (f)   Drainage. Shall construct and provide all necessary and proper
drainage for the premises onto which such building or structure is moved, such
drainage to be installed and constructed according to the plan to be submitted
by the owner and approved by the engineer.
      (6)   The Building Official shall refuse to issue a permit if it is
found:
         (a)   That any application requirement or any fee or deposit
requirement has not been complied with;
         (b)   That the building is too large to move without endangering
persons or property in the city;
         (c)   That the building is in such state of deterioration or disrepair
or is otherwise so structurally unsafe that it could not be moved without
endangering persons and property in the city;
         (d)   That the building is structurally unsafe or unfit for the
purpose for which moved, if the removal location is in the city;
         (e)   That the building to be moved is not worth at least 60% of the
cost of a similar new building as determined by the Building Officials.
      (7)   No permit shall be issued under the provisions hereof unless and
until the Building Officials shall be satisfied that the building proposed to
be removed will in its removal location conform to the general character and to
the type of architecture of the neighborhood;
      (8)   A performance bond or a certified check shall be required in the
sum of one and one-half times the total cost as stated in the plans stated in
subsection (3) above and subsection (4) above. The bond shall be conditioned on
the work stated in the plan, required in subsection (3) above, being completed
within 90 days from the date of issuance of said permit. Failure to complete
any part of the plans shall be reviewed by the Council and may be considered a
forfeiture of the bond, or a portion thereof;
      (9)   All provisions of the State Building Code, as described in §
150.001, shall apply to any building or structure being moved under this
section, and the term Building Officials as used only in this section shall
include the Building Inspector, Plumbing Inspector, Heating Inspector,
Electrical Inspector and the Plastering Inspector.
   (B)   The fees and insurance requirements for the moving of existing
structures shall be as follows:
      (1)   An application for moving a building shall be accompanied by a pre-
moving inspection deposit to be established by Council ordinance. The Building
Officials shall review the application and shall make an inspection of the
existing building prior to moving. For this service they shall be reimbursed on
an hourly rate plus mileage. This charge shall be deducted from the deposit,
and any additional charges shall be collectible from the applicant. In case the
charge is less than the deposit, the remainder will be returned to the
applicant;
      (2)   A further deposit shall be made by the applicant with the city as
insurance to guarantee the replacement of any street surfacing, cost of
removing and replacing city owned utility wires and any other expenses incurred
by the city, also to be established by Council ordinance. The city will submit
a bill for any and all costs chargeable to the applicant or his or her agent.
The charges shall be deducted from the deposit made, and any additional charges
shall be collectible from the applicant;
      (3)   A building permit fee shall be paid prior to moving of the
building.
(`89 Code, § 20.060)
§ 150.006 MINIMUM SIZES.
   (A)   Every dwelling house hereafter erected shall:
      (1)   Contain at least three rooms conforming to the standards set forth
in Section 1405(b);
      (2)   Have rooms which do not measure less than seven feet in any
dimension when they are used;
      (3)   Shall not measure less than 24 feet on any one side; and
      (4)   Shall have a continuous foundation.
   (B)   Each single-family house shall have a minimum finished livable floor
area of 1,100 square feet for a one-story structure, 1,200 square feet for a 1½
story structure, and 1,400 square feet for a two- story or more structure.
   (C)   For the purpose of computing the minimum areas set down in division
(B) of this section, only those areas having a ceiling height of seven and one-
half feet or more will be considered. The area of “split level” or “split
entry” houses shall be computed on the basis of the largest horizontal area of
the structure; and when one habitable area lies directly above another
habitable area, only the larger of these areas may be used to compute areas as
prescribed in this section.
   (D)   Domed homes shall be considered one story houses, if there is no
second floor; one and one-half story houses, if all or part of the second floor
is provided. In calculating the minimum square footage for the second floor, it
must be determined first if that floor has over 50% of its area with a ceiling
height of a minimum of seven feet six inches, and if it does, then any part of
that floor with a ceiling height of five feet, or more, shall be included for
determining the minimum square footage, as set down in division (B) of this
section. Entryways will not be considered in calculating the necessary square
footage of the living area. If an extension is added to the domed home, the
total square footage of the extension, for the calculation of living area
purposes only, shall not exceed 5% of the total habitable area of the home.
   (E)   Earth sheltered homes shall be as defined by state law. If an earth
sheltered home has one level, it shall be considered a one story house. If an
earth sheltered home has two levels, it shall be considered a two story house.
(`89 Code, § 20.070) (Ord. 634, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.007 DRIVEWAYS.
   Refer to §
154.010 of the zoning regulations. (`89 Code, § 20.080)
(`89 Code, § 20.080)
§ 150.008 FENCES.
   Fences, when constructed to enclosed or screen any lot or tract of land, or
part thereof, shall be erected in such a manner as to resist the forces of wind
and frost action in accordance with the provisions of the State Building Code.
Posts, footings and structural framework of all fences shall be so constructed
and maintained as not to create any hazards to life or limb. Fences shall not
be equipped with barbs or spikes. See also section on fences in Zoning
Chapter 154.
(`89 Code, § 20.090)
§ 150.009 WATERPROOFING AND DAMP- PROOFING.
   All basements and habitable spaces below grade level shall be damp proofed
or waterproofed as hereinafter prescribed, so as to adequately protect against
the infiltration of dampness, moisture or water.
   (A)   Foundation drains. In those areas where the average sub-surface water
table is less than three feet below the basement floor, or where the nature of
the soil presents a sub-surface drainage problem, foundation drain tile shall
be installed. All such installations shall be approved by the Building
Inspector prior to such installation.
   (B)   Waterproofing. In those areas where the average sub-surface water
table is not more than six inches below the basement floor, a membrane shall be
installed so as to prohibit the passage of moisture or dampness into the
basement or habitable area. All installations proposed under this division
shall be approved by the Building Inspector prior to such installation.
   (C)   Damp-proofing. In those areas where the average sub-surface water
table lies more than three feet below the basement floor, only damp-proofing
shall be required. Such damp proofing shall consist of one of the following:
      (1)   One coat of Portland cement parging, 3/8 inch thick, troweled onto
masonry walls from top of footings to the finish grade line;
      (2)   One or more coats of bituminous materials, sprayed, brushed or
troweled onto masonry walls, in accordance with the recommendations of the
manufacturer thereof, from the footings to the finish grade line. Provided,
however, the foundation damp proofing required by this division may be omitted,
with the approval of the Building Inspector, in areas where well-drained soils
exist and where the average sub-surface water lies more than eight feet below
the basement floor.
(`89 Code, § 20.100)
§ 150.010 DRAINAGE.
   Any building construction, or building alteration, which does not allow for
adequate drainage from any grade entrance shall not be allowed. A 12 inch grade
drop from any grade entrance may be considered adequate drainage.
(`89 Code, § 20.110)
§ 150.011 PLOT PLAN INFORMATION.
   (A)   Before any building permit shall be issued, the owner or agent shall
file with the city for Council approval a detailed plot plan, drawn to
appropriate scale, showing the location of all proposed structures, driveways,
landscaping, parking, screening, sidewalks, access drives, land uses,
structural uses, including the following:
      (1)   A location map relating site plan to the geographical location in
the city;
      (2)   Identification of the use of each structure;
      (3)   The dimensions of all structures, including height of all
buildings;
      (4)   Provisions of off-street parking, vehicle storage, internal and
external circulation;
      (5)   Extent and type of landscaping to be identified by botanical or
common name and size of such at time of planting;
      (6)   Type and placement of advertising or directional signs other than
street name signs;
      (7)   Type, placement and number of street name signs, traffic safety
signs and other circulation signs;
      (8)   Type and location of firefighting facilities;
      (9)   Nature and extent of cut, fill and grade of soil, compaction, along
with other related engineering data;
      (10)   Plans and specifications for the improvement of streets, highways,
pedestrian ways, alleys and similar features;
      (11)   Plans for drainage, including culverts, bridges and pertinent
structures;
      (12)   Plans for all utilities;
      (13)   Plans for all lighting, including lighting of signs;
      (14)   Type and location of fences or other screening used throughout the
plot plan.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to single or two family residences
constructed in the areas covered by this Code.
(`89 Code, § 20.120)
§ 150.012 BUILDING PERMITS NOT TO BE ISSUED.
   (A)   No building permits shall be authorized or issued by the Building
Inspector or assistants in the following cases:
      (1)   Where the street in front of the property is not completed and
formally accepted as such by the Council;
      (2)   On property not fronting on a completed public street;
      (3)   Where no part of the building to be constructed is within 50 feet
of the public street the property fronts on;
      (4)   The building and land does not conform with the zoning law
requirements of the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the frontage width of the property on
a public street shall be considered the lot width for the lot and land
requirements of the zoning law of this Code.
   (C)   The Council may grant special use permits to allow construction of
buildings that do not comply with this section, the procedure for which shall
conform with the requirements of this Code.
   (D)   This section, or any part thereof, may be waived by the Council for
reasonable cause and where a conditional use permit would not benefit the city.
(`89 Code, § 20.130)
§ 150.013 NON-CONVENTIONAL BUILDINGS.
   All non-conventional buildings, including domes, earth sheltered or
otherwise, shall not be issued a building permit, if otherwise authorized by
law, unless the person applying for the permit shall also file an engineering
analysis of the structural soundness, signed by a registered professional
engineer or architect and which affords the city sufficient information to
properly evaluate the building’s structural soundness.
(`89 Code, § 20.140)
HEATING INSPECTORS AND PERMITS
§ 150.025 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, excepting §§
150.100 et seq., and Chapters
151 and
152, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. As applied to material, device or method of construction or
installation, means approved by the City Council or by other authority
designated by law to give approval in the matter in question.
   A.S.A. The American Standards Association.
   ATMOSPHERIC BURNER. A device (other than gas range or gas water heater) in
which air at atmospheric pressure is injected into the burner by a jet of gas
under pressure and whose input exceeds 50,000 B.T.U. per hour.
   AUTOMATIC FIRE DOOR. Afire door normally held in an open position and
automatically closed by a releasing device that is actuated by abnormal high
temperature or by a predetermined rate of rise in temperature.
   CONVERSION BURNER. A gas burning appliance designed to supply gaseous fuel
to and properly burn same in the combustion chamber of a boiler, furnace or
other device originally designed to burn another fuel.
   FIRE DOOR. A door and its assembly so constructed and assembled in place as
to give the specified protection against the passage of fire.
   FIRE PARTITION. A partition which subdivides a building to resist the spread
of fire or to provide areas of refuge, but is not necessarily continuous
through all stories nor extended through the room and has a fire-resistant
rating of at least two hours.
   FIRE RESISTANT RATING. The time in hours that the material or construction
will withstand fire exposure as determined by a fire test made in conformity
with the “Standard Methods of Fire Tests of Building Construction and
Materials,” A.S.T.M. E. 119-50.
   GAS BURNER. A device for the final conveyance of gas or a mixture of gas and
air to the combustion zone of a steam or hot water boiler, furnace or to any
device or appliance used in connection with a space heating system, including
conversion burners, gas designed heating appliances, power gas burners and
atmospheric gas burners.
   GAS BURNER EQUIPMENT. Includes gas burners as herein defined, together with
all fans, blowers, control devices and accessories connected to the burners and
piping involved in supplying the burner.
   GAS DESIGNATED HEATING APPLIANCE. Any space heating appliance designed for
the exclusive use of gaseous fuels, excepting certain auxiliary heaters.
   GAS FITTING. The work or putting together any fittings, pipes or fixtures or
other appliances which are to contain gas for heat, light or power purposes.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room occupied by one or more persons for living, eating or
sleeping, but not including bathrooms, water closet compartments, laundries,
serving and storage pantries, corridors, cellars and spaces that are not used
frequently or during extended periods.
   OCCUPIED. As applied to a building, OCCUPIED shall be construed as though
followed by the words “or intended arranged or designed to be occupied.”
   POWER GAS BURNER. A device in which either the gas or air or both are
supplied at pressures exceeding, for gas, the house line pressure and for air,
atmospheric pressure.
   REPAIR. The replacement of existing work with the same kind of material used
in the existing work, not including additional work that would affect the
structural safety of the building or that would affect or change required exit,
lighting or ventilating facilities, that would affect a vital element of an
elevator, plumbing, gas piping, wiring or heating installation or that would be
a violation of a provision of this chapter, excepting §§
150.085 et seq., and Chapters
151 and
152.
(`89 Code, § 22.010)
§ 150.026 HEATING INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Manager may appoint a Heating Inspector and such Deputy Heating
Inspectors as may be required to carry out the terms of this chapter, excepting
§§
150.100 et seq., and Chapters
151 and
152. The Heating Inspector and Deputies appointed must demonstrate a general
knowledge of all types of heating apparatus, equipment and installation,
including air conditioning units. They shall be particularly qualified to
inspect and pass upon the installation of gas burner equipment.
   (B)   The Heating Inspector and Deputies shall not engage in the business of
installation or maintenance of heating or air conditioning equipment, either
directly or indirectly in the city, and they shall have no financial interest
in any concern engaged in such business in the city.
(`89 Code, § 22.020)
§ 150.027 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Heating Inspector and Deputies are authorized to:
   (A)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter, excepting §§
150.100 et seq., and Chapters
151 and
152, inspecting all work relative to or incidental with heating and air
conditioning equipment of any kind;
   (B)   Be empowered to enter any building during reasonable hours in the
discharge of duties or for the purpose of making any inspection which might be
necessary in the performance of duties;
   (C)   Pass upon all questions relating to strength, durability, appearance
and general workmanship;
   (D)   Make such tests or order such tests to be made as are deemed necessary
to determine the safety of materials, equipment or appliances which it becomes
their duty to inspect;
   (E)   Recommend the employment by the city of such technical or expert
consultants as might become necessary to insure proper construction,
installation and public safety;
   (F)   Stop the construction, repair, alteration or installation when any
work done thereon is carried on in violation of this chapter or in a reckless,
careless, unsafe or improper manner or when materials or appliances do not
conform to the provisions of this chapter, excepting §§
150.100 et seq., and Chapters
151 and
152.
(`89 Code, § 22.030)
§ 150.028 INTERFERENCE WITH INSPECTORS.
   No person shall interfere with any Heating Inspector or Deputy in the
execution of duties.
(`89 Code, § 22.040)
§ 150.029 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be required for:
      (1)   The installation, alteration or repair (except such minor repair
not involving the removal of a burner from its application) of any gas burner
or gas equipment;
      (2)   The installation, alteration or repair (except minor repair work)
of any heating system, except stoves;
      (3)   The installation of any device or apparatus requiring the use of
manufactured gas, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas. Such permits shall be
issued to licensed installers only.
   (B)   Application for permits shall be filed with the engineer.
(`89 Code, § 22.050)
§ 150.030 LIMITATION ON PERMITS.
   No permits shall be issued by the city for installation or connection for
use of any gas-fired apparatus or equipment (except domestic ranges,
refrigerators, water heaters or any gas equipment of less than 50,000 BTU per
hour) supplied from the general gas distribution system of the Northern States
Power Company located within the city, unless the application is accompanied by
a statement from the power company stating that it has the facilities and
capacity to serve the equipment or apparatus at the location designated.
(`89 Code, § 22.060)
§ 150.031 PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for all permits issued under this chapter shall be as established by
Council ordinance.
(`89 Code, § 22.070)
§ 150.032 WORK WITHOUT PERMITS.
   Any person who shall commence work of any kind for which a permit is
required under this chapter without having first received the necessary permit
therefore shall, when subsequently receiving such permit, be required to pay
double the fees provided for such permit and shall be subject to all the penal
provisions of this code.
(`89 Code, § 22.080)
§ 150.033 PERMIT EXPIRATIONS.
   Any permit issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall become
invalid at the end of 90 days from date of issuance unless the work for which
the permit was issued has been started. This time limit may be extended by the
Council, provided that application for such extension of time be made in
writing previous to the expiration date of the permit.
(`89 Code, § 22.090)
§ 150.034 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Immediately after the installation of any appliance or device to be
operated by gas, the installer shall notify the Heating Inspector. When the
Inspector is satisfied that the installation of the gas appliance or device is
correct and proper, the Inspector shall issue a certificate of inspection
authorizing the gas to be turned on for such appliance or device. All gas
piping shall be inspected before concealment and the person installing such
piping shall notify the Inspector at least 48 hours before covering the pipe.
No certificate of inspection shall be issued unless the work is done in strict
conformity with the provisions of this Code, the statutes of the State of
Minnesota and the rules and regulations of the State Fire Marshal.
   (B)   Whenever it becomes necessary for the Heating Inspector to reinspect
any work which has been found faulty during the first inspection, a
reinspection fee, as set by the Council, shall be paid by the permittee.
(`89 Code, § 22.100)
§ 150.035 WORK STOPPED BY INSPECTOR.
   When any work shall have been stopped by an Inspector for any reason
whatsoever, it shall not again be resumed until the Inspector shall have been
satisfied that the reason for work stoppage has been completely removed.
(`89 Code, § 22.110)
§ 150.036 BEST POSSIBLE MATERIALS AND WORKMANSHIP.
   The apparent silence of this chapter and Chapters
151 and
152 as to any detail concerning the method of performing any of the work
described herein or any of the materials or appliances to be used in connection
with the work shall be regarded as meaning only the best general practice is to
prevail and that all materials and workmanship are to be of the best type and
character which shall provide the best final result in said work. In any cases
where this Code omits specific reference to any work or materials which may in
fairness be implied, the permittee shall perform such work and furnish such
materials and appliances that the work will be complete according to good
practice and in the best interest of the public.
(`89 Code, § 22.120)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.050 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   The Manager shall appoint an Electrical Inspector. The Electrical Inspector
shall meet the following qualifications: be of good moral character; be
possessed of such executive ability as is requisite for the performance of the
duties and have a thorough knowledge of the standard materials and methods used
in the installation of electrical equipment; be well versed in approved methods
of construction for safety to persons and property, the statutes of the State
of Minnesota relating to electrical work and any orders, rules and regulations
issued by authority thereof, and the National Electrical Code, as approved by
the American Standards Association; have had at least five years experience as
an Electrical Inspector, or in lieu of such experience shall be a graduate in
electrical or mechanical engineering of a college or university considered by
the Manager as having suitable requirements for graduation and shall have had
two years practical electrical experience.
(`89 Code, § 23.010)
§ 150.051 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Electrical Inspector shall:
   (A)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Upon application grant permits of the installation or alteration of
electrical equipment and make inspections of electrical installations;
   (C)   Keep complete records of all permits issued, inspections and re-
inspections made and other official work performed;
   (D)   Employ, after receiving the approval of the Manager, any assistant
inspectors and clerical assistants necessary for the proper conduct of the
office and the inspection of electrical installations. Such assistants may be
delegated any of the powers or duties of the Electrical Inspector.
(`89 Code, § 23.020)
§ 150.052 DANGEROUS EQUIPMENT OR WIRING.
   When any electrical equipment is found by the Electrical Inspector to be
dangerous, the persons responsible for the electrical equipment shall be
notified in writing and shall make any changes or repairs required in the
judgment of the Electrical Inspector to place such equipment in safe
conditions. If such work is not completed within 15 days or such longer period
as may be specified by the Electrical Inspector in said notice, the Electrical
Inspector shall have the authority to disconnect or order the discontinuance of
electric service to said electrical equipment. In cases of emergency where
necessary for safety to persons or property, or where electrical equipment may
interfere with the work of the Fire Department, the Electrical Inspector shall
have the authority to disconnect or cause the disconnection immediately of any
electrical equipment.
(`89 Code, § 23.030)
§ 150.053 APPLICATION.
   Application for a permit, describing the work to be done, shall be made in
writing to the Engineer by the person installing the work. The application
shall be accompanied by such plans, specifications and schedules as may be
necessary to determine whether the installations as described will be in
conformity with the requirements of this chapter. If it shall be found that the
installation as described will conform with all legal requirements and if the
applicant has complied with all provisions of this chapter, a permit for such
installations shall be issued. No deviation may be made from the installation
prescribed in the permit without the written approval of the Electrical
Inspector.
(`89 Code, § 23.040)
§ 150.054 STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   M.S. §§ 326.01 and 326.241 through 326.248, as they may be amended from time
to time, are adopted by reference, together with all amendments thereto.
(`89 Code, § 23.060)
§ 150.055 INSPECTION FEES.
   The fee for the electrical permits shall be set by ordinance of the Council
and shall be paid in full at the time the application for the permit is made.
(`89 Code, § 23.070)
§ 150.056 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall commence work of any kind for which a permit is
required under the provisions of this Code without having first received the
necessary permit therefore shall, when subsequently receiving such permit, be
required to pay double the fees provided in this Code.
(`89 Code, § 23.050)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.070 MINNESOTA PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The Minnesota Plumbing Code, as filed with the Secretary of State and the
Department of Administration, as amended, is adopted and shall be in full force
and effect in this city insofar as applicable to plumbing and building
construction therein, except as otherwise provided by this chapter. All work
done in this city shall be done in accordance with the provisions thereof.
(`89 Code, § 24.010)
§ 150.071 COPIES OF CODE TO BE FILED.
   One copy of the Minnesota Plumbing Code shall be kept on file for public
inspection in the office of the City Manager. Such copies shall be marked “City
of North St. Paul Official Copy.”
(`89 Code, § 24.020)
§ 150.072 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, install, alter or repair any plumbing,
drain, vent, water closet, sink, lavatory or other plumbing fixture within the
city without first obtaining a permit to do such work. Application for such
permit shall be made at the office of building inspections on forms supplied by
the city. Prior to installation of a system of plumbing other than for a
single-family dwelling with independent plumbing service, complete plumbing
plans and specifications, together with any additional information that the
Building Official may require, shall be submitted in duplicate and approved by
the Building Official. No construction shall proceed except in accordance with
the approved plans. Any alteration or extension of any existing plumbing system
shall be subject to these same requirements.
(`89 Code, §24.030)(Am. Ord. 772, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 150.073 PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for all permits issued under this chapter shall be as established by
Council ordinance.
(`89 Code, § 24.040)
§ 150.074 SEWER AND WATER CONNECTIONS IN SAME TRENCH.
   All sewer water connections to the city sewer and water systems, which are
laid in the same trench, shall be of the following materials:
   (A)   Sewer connections shall be of cast iron pipe or P.V.C. of a quality
approved by the Public Works Superintendent;
   (B)   Water connections shall be of copper tubing of a quality approved by
the Public Works Superintendent.
(`89 Code, § 24.050)
§ 150.075 INSPECTIONS BY CITY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Engineer and the Plumbing Inspectors
designated by the Manager to enforce the provisions of this chapter. All
plumbing work constructed shall be inspected and, if found not to be in
accordance with this chapter, shall be corrected. If after written notice to
the person installing work requiring correction, the person neglects or refuses
to conform to such order, the city or any duly appointed Inspector may remove
such work and charge the cost thereof to the person installing the same. No
person shall cover any plumbing work until it has been inspected.
   (B)   No person shall refuse to make corrections required by the city.
(`89 Code, § 24.060)
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
§ 150.085 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW PROGRAM.
   This city will follow the environmental review operating procedures in
implementing the provisions of M.S. Chapter 116D, as it may be amended from
time to time, relating to the Environmental Review Program and any rules
adopted thereunder by the Minnesota Environmental Quality Board. All terms used
in this subchapter shall have the same meaning as the terms used in M.S.
Chapter 116D, as it may be amended from time to time, and the rules adopted
thereunder are adopted by reference.
(`89 Code, § 28.010)
§ 150.086 COST OF PREPARATION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Information to be provided. The applicant for a permit for any action
for which environmental documents are required either by state law or rules or
by the Council shall supply, in the manner prescribed by the Manager, all
unprivileged data or information reasonably requested by the city that the
applicant has in possession or to which has reasonable access.
   (B)   Environmental assessment worksheets. The applicant for a permit for
any action for which an environmental assessment worksheet (EAW) is required,
either by state law or rules, or by the Council, shall pay all costs of
preparation and review of the EAW, and, upon the request of and in the manner
prescribed by the Manager, shall prepare a draft EAW and supply all information
necessary to complete that document.
   (C)   Environmental impact statement. The city and the applicant for a
permit for any action for which an environmental impact statement (EIS) is
required shall comply with the provisions of the Rules Governing Assessment of
Costs for Environmental Impact Statements, one copy of which is on file in the
office of the City Manager, unless the applicant and the Council provide
otherwise by a written agreement.
   (D)   Payment of costs. No permit for an action, for which an EAW or an EIS
is required, shall be issued until all costs of preparation and review, which
are to be paid by the applicant, are paid, and all information required is
supplied, and until the environment review process has been completed, as
provided in this subchapter and the rules adopted by reference by this
subchapter.
   (E)   Agreements concerning cost of preparation and review. The applicant
for a permit, for any action which an EAW or EIS if required, and the Council
may, in writing, agree to a different division of the costs of preparation and
review of any EAW or EIS than as provided in the rules adopted by reference by
this subchapter.
(`89 Code, § 28.020)
§ 150.087 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Manager shall be the person responsible for the administration of
the Environmental Review Program, this subchapter and the rules adopted by
reference by this subchapter.
   (B)   The Manager shall be responsible for determining whether an action for
which a permit is required is an action for which EAW is mandatory, or for
which an optional EAW may be required under the provisions of the subchapter,
and shall notify the Planning Commission and the Council of these proposed
actions.
   (C)   All EAW’s and EIS’s shall be prepared under the supervision of
Manager, reviewed by the Planning Commission and reviewed and approved by the
Council.
   (D)   When reviewing an EAW or EIS, the Manager and the Planning Commission
may suggest design alterations which would lessen the environmental impact of
the action. The Council may require these design alterations to be made as a
condition for issuing the permit when it finds that the design alterations are
necessary to lessen the environmental impact of the action.
   (E)   After an EAW is prepared, the Planning Commission shall review the EAW
and recommend to the Council whether or not it should require the preparation
of an EIS. The Council shall require an EIS when it finds that an action is
major and has potential for significant environmental effects.
(`89 Code, § 28.030)
§ 150.088 OPTIONAL EAW.
   (A)   The Council may, upon recommendation by the Manager, require that an
optional EAW be prepared on any proposed action if the action may be a major
action and appears to have the potential for significant environmental effects.
   (B)   The following guidelines shall also be considered in determining
whether an optional EAW shall be required:
      (1)   Is the action to be in or near an area that is considered to be
environmentally sensitive or aesthetically pleasing?
      (2)   Is the action likely to have disruptive effects such as generating
traffic and noise?
      (3)   Are there public questions or controversy concerning the
environmental effects of the proposed actions?
(`89 Code, § 28.040)
§ 150.089 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued for a project for which environmental
documents are required until the entire environmental review procedures
established by this subchapter are completed.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of this subchapter is guilty of
a misdemeanor. Each day that the violation is permitted to exist constitutes a
separate offense.
   (C)   No work shall commence and any work in progress on any project for
which environmental documents are required shall cease until the environmental
review procedures established by this subchapter are fully complied with.
(`89 Code, § 28.050)
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABOVEGROUND POOLS. All swimming pools that are constructed or erected so
that the edge of the pool is at least four feet above the ground and which is
reached only by means of a ladder.
   WADING POOLS. All portable pools which contain 24 inches of water or less.
   IN-GROUND POOLS. All other pools.
(`89 Code, § 25.010)
§ 150.101 PERMITS.
   No pools except wading pools shall be constructed or erected within the city
limits unless a building permit is first received from the engineer.
(`89 Code, § 25.020)
§ 150.102 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   All pools shall comply with the following:
   (A)   All in-ground pools shall be completely enclosed by a non-climbing
type fence at least four feet high. All fence openings or points of entry into
the pool area enclosures shall be equipped with gates. The fence and gates
shall be constructed of a minimum number 11 gauge woven wire mesh corrosion-
resistance material or other materials approved by the engineer. All gates
shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices placed at the top
of the gate or otherwise inaccessible to small children. All fence posts shall
be decay or corrosion- resistant and shall be set in concrete bases or other
suitable protection. The openings between the bottom of the fence and the
ground or other surface shall not be more than four inches;
   (B)   All above-ground pools shall be constructed or erected so that access
to the pool can only be had by means of a ladder. Braces or structural supports
shall be so attached that no child can climb the same to gain entrance to the
pool. All ladders shall be detachable and so placed that no child can use them
to gain entrance to the pool without the owner’s consent;
   (C)   Wading pools shall be emptied when not in use;
   (D)   Non-breakable or non-tearable type covers, securely attached to the
pool, and which completely cover the pool may be used in lieu of the
requirements of divisions (A), (B) and (C) above;
   (E)   An adult or skilled swimmer shall be present at all times that the
pools are in use;
   (F)   All pools, except wading pools, shall be equipped with one or more
throwing ring buoys not more than 15 inches in diameter with a 60 foot long 3/
16 inch rope attached and one or more light but strong poles with blunted ends
and not less than 12 feet in length for making assists or rescues;
   (G)   Diving boards shall not be higher than one meter.
(`89 Code, § 25.030)
§ 150.103 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   No pools shall be used, kept, maintained or operated in the city if such
use, keeping, maintaining or operation shall be a nuisance or shall be
dangerous to life or detrimental to health.
(`89 Code, § 25.040)
§ 150.104 INSPECTIONS.
   All pools that fail to comply with the city code or state law shall be
closed and locked and shall not be reopened until the law is complied with.
(`89 Code, § 25.050)
CHAPTER 151: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Definition
   
151.02   Dangerous buildings a nuisance
   
151.03   Standards for repair, vacation or demolition
   
151.04   Inspections
   
151.05   Use of condemned building
   
151.06   Removal of placard
   
151.07   Appeal to Council; petition
   
151.08   Action by Council on appeal
   
151.09   Notice to be obeyed
§ 151.01 DEFINITION.
   Any building or structure which has one or more of the following defects
shall be deemed DANGEROUS:
   (A)   Interior walls or other vertical structural members that list, lean or
buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center of
gravity falls outside the middle one-third of its base;
   (B)   Improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs or with
overloaded floors or roofs with insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for
the purpose used;
   (C)   Damage by fire, wind or other causes so as to be dangerous to life,
safety, morals or the general health and welfare of the occupants or the people
of the city;
   (D)   Dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, vermin infested or unsanitary or failing
to provide the amenities essential to decent living so as to be unfit for human
habitation or likely to cause sickness or disease so as to work injury to the
health, moral safety and general welfare of those living therein or of the
public;
   (E)   Light, air and sanitation facilities which are inadequate to protect
the health, morals, safety or general welfare of human beings who live there or
of the public;
   (F)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic or with
insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other means of
communication;
   (G)   Parts thereof which are so attached that they may fall and injure
members of the public or property;
   (H)   A condition or location unsafe, unsanitary or dangerous to the health,
morals, safety or general welfare of the occupants or of the public;
   (I)   Violates any provisions of this code.
(`89 Code, § 21.010)
§ 151.02 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS A NUISANCE.
   Any dangerous building is declared to be a public nuisance and shall be
repaired, vacated or demolished as provided by this chapter.
(`89 Code, § 21.020)
§ 151.03 STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the Building
Inspector and Council in ordering repair, vacation or demolition of a dangerous
building.
   (A)   If the building can reasonably be repaired, so that it will no longer
exist in violation of the terms of this chapter, it shall be ordered repaired.
   (B)   If the building is in such a condition as to make it dangerous to the
health, morals, safety or general welfare of its occupants or of the public, it
shall be ordered to be vacated.
   (C)   In any case where a building is 50% damaged or decayed or deteriorated
from its original value or structure, it shall be demolished; and in cases
where a building cannot be repaired so that it will no longer exist in
violation of the terms of this chapter, it shall be demolished. In all cases
where a dangerous building is a fire hazard existing or erected in violation of
the terms of this code or of a statute of the State of Minnesota, it shall be
demolished.
(`89 Code, § 21.030)
§ 151.04 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Ordinary.
      (1)   Upon complaint of any person, or upon their own volition, the
Building Inspector or Fire Chief or their authorized agents are authorized to
make a preliminary inspection of any structure which appears to be dangerous or
hazardous. If the official making the inspection is denied access to the
structure, and if the preliminary inspection indicates a probable cause to
believe the structure is dangerous or hazardous, the official making the
inspection shall cause to be served on the occupant, or the owner if the
structure is unoccupied, a written notice giving the date and time, at least 20
days later, on which he or she is to be allowed entry into the structure. At
that time, all appropriate city officials are authorized to inspect the
structure and make their reports to the City Council.
      (2)   If the occupant or owner of the structure refuses, without
reasonable grounds, to allow the city inspectors access to the structure, the
person, firm or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a violation of § 130.06,
Cooperation with Public Officer; in addition thereto, the city, upon resolution
of the Council, may seek in a court of competent jurisdiction such order as may
be necessary to carry out the provisions of this Code.
   (B)   Emergency.
      (1)   Whenever, in the judgment of the Building Inspector or Fire Chief,
an emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the health,
safety or welfare of the public, or any member thereof, they may, with or
without prior notice, enter any structure for the purpose of confirming that an
emergency exists. If, in fact, an emergency exists, the official shall issue
such notice to the occupant or owner as is necessary to abate the emergency,
including the vacation of the structure by the occupants; or, if circumstances
are such that there is no time to give such notice, the official shall
immediately take such actions as are necessary to abate said emergency,
including the vacation of the structure by the occupants.
      (2)   In case of emergency, the city inspectors shall only enter a
structure when accompanied by a police officer of the city and when proper
identification is given to the occupant. If the structure is unoccupied,
written notice of the inspection shall be mailed to the owner as soon as
possible.
      (3)   If entry is forced, the structure shall be made secure after the
entry by the city, and all such costs shall be chargeable against the owner, if
unoccupied, or the occupant, if occupied.
      (4)   A report of all emergency inspections shall be given to the Manager
and Council as soon as possible after the inspection is made. No emergency
inspections shall be made without prior written notification to the Manager, or
a duly authorized agent in the absence of the Manager.
(`89 Code, § 21.040)
§ 151.05 USE OF CONDEMNED BUILDING.
   Any building which has been condemned and placarded as a dangerous building
by the Building Inspector shall be vacated within a reasonable time as stated
in the notice provided for in §
151.04. No owner, lessee or occupant shall rent to any person for human
habitation, and no person shall occupy any building or structure which has been
condemned and placarded by the Building Inspector after the date on which said
Building Inspector has required the affected building or structure to be
vacated. No building or structure which has been condemned and placarded as a
dangerous building shall again be used or occupied until written approval is
secured from and such placard removed by the Building Inspector.
(`89 Code, § 21.050)
§ 151.06 REMOVAL OF PLACARD.
   The Building Inspector shall remove the “condemned” placard from a building
whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and placarding
action were based have been eliminated. No person shall deface or remove the
placard from any building or structure which has been condemned as a dangerous
building and placarded as such, except the Building Inspector.
(`89 Code, § 21.060)
§ 151.07 APPEAL TO COUNCIL; PETITION.
   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection with
the enforcement of any provision of this chapter may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the matter before the Council; provided, that such person
shall file in the office of the City Manager a written petition requesting such
hearing and setting forth a statement of the grounds therefore within 20 days
after the day the notice was served. Within 15 days of receipt of a petition,
the Council shall set a time and place for such hearing and shall give the
petitioner written notice thereof, and at such hearing the petitioner shall be
given an opportunity to be heard and to show cause why such notice shall be
modified or withdrawn. The hearing before the Council shall be commenced not
later than 30 days after the date on which the petition was filed; provided
that upon written application of the petitioner to the Council so requesting
the Council may, if it finds that the petitioner has established good and
sufficient cause, postpone the hearing for a reasonable time beyond the said 30
days. Any notice served pursuant to §
151.04 shall automatically become a final order if a written petition for a
hearing is not filed as provided by this section.
(`89 Code, § 21.070)
§ 151.08 ACTION BY COUNCIL ON APPEAL.
   After the hearing provided for by §
151.07, the Council shall sustain, modify or withdraw the notice, depending
upon its findings as to whether the provisions of this chapter have been
complied with. The Council may also modify a notice so as to authorize a
variance from the provisions of this chapter when, because of special
conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will result
in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship; provided, that the spirit of
this chapter will be observed, public health and welfare secured and
substantial justice done. If the Council sustains or modifies such notice, it
shall be deemed to be a final order, and the owner, occupant, lessee,
mortgagee, agent or other person having an interest in said building or
structure shall comply with all provisions of such order within a reasonable
period of time as determined by the Council.
(`89 Code, § 21.080)
§ 151.09 NOTICE TO BE OBEYED.
   No person shall fail to comply with the provisions of any notice issued
under §
151.04. Each day a person shall fail to comply with a notice after the date set
forth in the notice for compliance shall constitute a separate violation of
this section.
(`89 Code, § 21.090)
CHAPTER 152: STRUCTURES AND PREMISES MAINTENANCE AND OCCUPANCY CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Application
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Meaning of certain words
   
152.05   Responsibilities of owner and occupants
Regulations
   
152.15   Maintenance of shared or public areas
   
152.16   Maintenance of occupied areas
   
152.17   Storage and disposal of rubbish and garbage
   
152.18   Responsibility for storm and screen doors and windows
   
152.19   Responsibility for pest extermination
   
152.20   Rodent harborages prohibited; prevention of food for rodents
   
152.21   Sanitary maintenance of fixture and facilities
   
152.22   Removal of snow and ice
   
152.23   Maintenance of driving and parking areas
   
152.24   Maintenance of yards
Minimum Standards; Requirements
   
152.35   Minimum heating capability and maintenance
   
152.36   Minimum exterior lighting
   
152.37   Minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities
   
152.38   Minimum standards for light and ventilation
   
152.39   Minimum thermal standards
   
152.40   General requirements
   
152.41   Discontinuance of service and facilities
   
152.42   Maximum density, minimum space, use and location requirements
   
152.43   Minimum ceiling height
   
152.44   Permissible occupancy of sleeping rooms
   
152.45   Access through sleeping rooms and bathrooms
   
152.46   Time limit to finish exterior of a structure
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.60   Enforcement and inspection authority
   
152.61   Inspection access
   
152.62   Unfit for human habitation
   
152.63   Secure unfit and vacated dwellings
   
152.64   Hazardous building declaration
   
152.65   Compliance order
   
152.66   Right of appeal
   
152.67   Restrictions on transfer of ownership
   
152.68   Execution of compliance orders by special assessments
   
152.69   Alternative sanctions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this Code is to protect the public health, safety,
comfort, morals and the general welfare of the people of the city. These
general objectives include, among others, the following:
      (1)   To protect the character and stability of residential, industrial
and commercial areas within the city;
      (2)   To correct and prevent structure conditions which adversely affect
or are likely to adversely affect the life, safety, general welfare and health,
including the physical, mental and social well- being of persons occupying
structures within North St. Paul;
      (3)   To provide minimum standards for light and ventilation, necessary
to health and safety;
      (4)   To prevent the overcrowding of dwellings by providing minimum space
standards per occupant for each dwelling unit;
      (5)   To provide minimum standards for the maintenance of existing
buildings and to thus prohibit slums and blight.
   (B)   With respect to rental disputes, and except as otherwise specifically
provided by the terms of this chapter, it is not the intention of the Council
to intrude upon the fair and accepted contractual relationship between tenant
and landlord. The Council does not intend to intervene as an advocate of either
party, nor to act as an arbiter, nor to be receptive to complaints from tenant
or landlord which are not specifically and clearly relevant to the provisions
of this chapter. In the absence of such relevancy with regard to rental
disputes, it is intended that the contracting parties exercise such legal
sanctions as are available to them without the intervention of city government.
(`89 Code, § 27.010)
§ 152.02 APPLICATION.
   This Code applies to all buildings, as well as its premises, and all
occupied premises within in the City of North St. Paul.
(`89 Code, § 27.020)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure subordinate to the main or principal
dwelling or dwellings and which is not used nor authorized to be used for
living or sleeping by human occupants and which is located on or partially on
the premises.
   BUILDING. Any structure erected for the support shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals chattels or property of any kind.
   COMPLIANCE OFFICIAL. The Manager and designated agents authorized to
administer and enforce this Code.
   DWELLING. A building, or portion thereof, designed or used predominantly for
residential occupancy of a continued nature, including one family dwellings,
two family dwellings and multiple family dwellings, but not including hotels or
motels.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single residential accommodation which is arranged,
designed, used or intended for use exclusively as living quarters for one
family; must include complete permanently installed kitchen facilities. Where a
private garage is structurally attached, it shall be considered as part of the
building in which the dwelling unit is located.
   FAMILY. One or more person related by blood, adoption, foster children or
marriage, living and cooking together as a single housekeeping unit, exclusive
of household servants; a number or persons but not exceeding three living and
cooking together as a single housekeeping unit though not related by blood,
adoption or marriage; or a number of persons, not exceeding two, living and
cooking together as a single housekeeping unit though not related by blood,
adoption or marriage where one of the two persons has natural, adoptive or
foster children also living with them.
   FLUSH WATER CLOSET. A toilet bowl flushed with water under pressure with a
water sealed trap above the floor level.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE BUILDING. Any building or part thereof that meets minimum
standards for use as a home or place of abode by one or more persons.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, furnace rooms, unfinished basements, pantries,
utility rooms of less than 50 square feet of floor space, foyers, communicating
corridors, stairways, closets, storage spaces and workshops, hobby and
recreation areas in parts of the structure below ground level or in attics.
   HEATED WATER. Water heated to a temperature of not less than 120 degrees
Fahrenheit measured at a faucet outlet.
   KITCHEN. A space which contains a sink with counter working space, adequate
space for installing cooking and refrigeration equipment and adequate space for
the storage of cooking utensils.
   MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling or portion thereof containing three or
more dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. A person occupying any structure, building, dwelling, dwelling
unit, room unit or premises.
   OCCUPY. Any person who is or was physically present, or who could prohibit
others from being physically present on or in any structure, building,
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit or premises, shall be deemed to occupy
the same for the purposes of this chapter.
   OPERATOR. The owner or agent who has charge, care, control or management of
a building.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation who, alone, jointly or severally with
others, shall be in actual possession of or have charge, care or control of any
structure or premises within the city as owner, employee or agent of the owner
or as trustees or guardian of the estate or person of the title holder. Any
such person representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the
provisions of this code to the same extent as the owner.
   PERMISSIBLE OCCUPANCY. The maximum number of persons permitted to reside in
a dwelling unit, rooming unit or structure.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment in a
dwelling: gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, steam pipes, garbage
disposal units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers,
lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch
basins, drains, vents and any other similar fixtures and the installation
thereof, together with all connections to water, sewer and gas lines.
   PREMISES. Any platted or unplatted lot and lots abutting each other, under
common ownership, occupied or capable of being occupied.
   PUBLIC HALL. A hall, corridor or passageway for providing egress from an
occupied unit to a public way and not within the exclusive control of one
occupant.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible waste solids, including garbage
and rubbish.
   RENTAL DWELLING or DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling or dwelling unit let for rent
or lease.
   REPAIR. To restore to a sound and acceptable state of operation,
serviceability or appearance.
   RODENT HARBORAGE. Any place where rodents can live, nest or seek shelter.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for a living and sleeping, but not for cooking and
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible wastes
and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, grass and
shrubbery clippings, wood, glass, brick, plaster, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   SAFETY. The condition of being reasonably free from danger and hazards which
may cause accidents or disease.
   STRUCTURE. Same as building.
   SUBSTANDARD DWELLING OR STRUCTURE. Any dwelling or structure which does not
conform to the minimum standards established by city ordinance.
   SUPPLIES. Paid for, furnished by, provided by or under the control of the
owner, operator or agent of a dwelling.
(`89 Code, § 27.030)
§ 152.04 MEANING OF CERTAIN WORDS.
   Whenever the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT or STRUCTURE are used in this
chapter, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words “or
any part thereof.”
(`89 Code, § 27.030)
§ 152.05 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER AND OCCUPANTS.
   No owner or other person shall occupy or let another person occupy any
structure, building, dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit or premises unless
the same are clean, sanitary and fit for human use and which complies with all
applicable legal requirements of the State of Minnesota and the City of North
St. Paul, including all ordinances thereof.
(`89 Code, § 27.040)
REGULATIONS
§ 152.15 MAINTENANCE OF SHARED OR PUBLIC AREAS.
   Every owner of a structure containing two or more occupants shall maintain
in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or public areas of the structure
and premises thereof.
(`89 Code, § 27.050)
§ 152.16 MAINTENANCE OF OCCUPIED AREAS.
   Every occupant of a structure, dwelling unit or rooming unit shall maintain
in a clean and sanitary condition that part or those parts of the structure,
dwelling unit and premises thereof that he or she occupies and controls. In
case of more than one occupant, each shall be deemed to occupy and control the
entire structure, dwelling unit or premises.
(`89 Code, § 27.060)
§ 152.17 STORAGE AND DISPOSAL OF RUBBISH AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   Rubbish. Every occupant of a structure, dwelling unit or rooming unit
shall store and dispose of all rubbish in a clean, sanitary and safe manner as
prescribed by the city ordinances.
(`89 Code, § 27.070)
   (B)   Garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit
shall store and dispose of all garbage and any other organic waste which might
provide food for insects and/or rodents in a clean, sanitary and safe manner as
prescribed by city ordinances.
(`89 Code, § 27.080)
   (C)   Responsibility for storage and disposal of garbage and rubbish. Every
owner of a multiple family dwelling or rooming unit shall supply facilities for
the sanitary and safe storage and/or disposal of rubbish and garbage. In the
case of single or two family dwellings or a commercial or industrial structure,
it shall be the responsibility of the occupant to furnish such facilities.
(`89 Code, § 27.090)
§ 152.18 RESPONSIBILITY FOR STORM AND SCREEN DOORS AND WINDOWS. 
   The owner of a rental dwelling unit shall be responsible for providing and
hanging all screens and storm doors and storm windows whenever the same are
required under the provisions of this Code, except where there is written
agreement otherwise between the owner and occupant.
(`89 Code, § 27.100)
§ 152.19 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PEST EXTERMINATION.
   Every occupant of a structure shall be responsible for the extermination of
vermin infestations and/or rodents on the premises. Every occupant of a
dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be
responsible for such extermination whenever the dwelling unit is the only one
infested; notwithstanding, however, whenever infestation is caused by the
failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a reasonable rodent-proof or
reasonable vermin-proof condition.
(`89 Code, § 27.110)
§ 152.20 RODENT HARBORAGES PROHIBITED; PREVENTION OF FOOD FOR RODENTS.
   (A)   Rodent harborages prohibited in occupied areas. No occupant of any
structure shall accumulate boxes, lumber, scrap metal or any other similar
materials in such a manner that may provide a rodent harborage in or about any
dwelling or dwelling unit. Stored materials shall be stacked neatly in piles.
(`89 Code, § 27.120)
   (B)   Rodent harborages prohibited in public areas. No owner of a structure
containing two or more dwelling units shall accumulate or permit the
accumulation of boxes, lumber, scrap metal or any other similar materials in
such a manner that may provide a rodent harborage in or about shared or public
areas by a dwelling or its premises. Materials stored by the owner or permitted
to be stored by the owner shall be stacked neatly in piles.
(`89 Code, § 27.130)
   (C)   Prevention of food for rodents. No owner or occupant of any structure
or accessory structure shall store, place or allow to accumulate any materials
that may serve as food for rodents in a site accessible to rodents.
(`89 Code, § 27.140)
§ 152.21 SANITARY MAINTENANCE OF FIXTURES AND FACILITIES.
   Every occupant of any structure shall keep all supplied fixtures and
facilities therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible
for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
(`89 Code, § 27.150)
§ 152.22 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE.
   The owner of a multiple family dwelling or industrial or commercial
structure shall be responsible for the removal of snow and ice from parking
lots, driveways, steps and walkways on the premises to insure safe pedestrian
and vehicular movement; except where there is written agreement otherwise
between the owner and occupant.
(`89 Code, § 27.170)
§ 152.23 MAINTENANCE OF DRIVING AND PARKING AREAS.
   The owner of a multiple family dwelling industrial or commercial structure
shall be responsible for providing and maintaining in good condition paved and
delineated parking areas and driveways for tenants consistent with city
ordinances.
(`89 Code, § 27.190)
§ 152.24 MAINTENANCE OF YARDS.
   The owner of a single or two family dwelling, multiple family dwelling or
commercial or industrial premises shall be responsible for providing and
maintaining in reasonably good condition yards consisting of weeds, grass lawn,
trees, shrubs and other vegetation free and clear of all garbage, refuse, piles
of dirt or evacuations for which grading permit has not been taken out.
(`89 Code, § 27.200)
MINIMUM STANDARDS; REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.35 MINIMUM HEATING CAPABILITY AND MAINTENANCE.
   In every dwelling unit or rooming unit when the control of the supplied heat
is the responsibility of a person other than the occupant, a temperature of at
least 68 degrees Fahrenheit or such lesser temperature required by government
authority shall be maintained at a distance of three feet above the floor in
all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments from September
through May. Commercial and industrial structures shall meet State of Minnesota
regulations and statute requirements.
(`89 Code, § 27.160)
Cross-reference:
   See also §
152.39
§ 152.36 MINIMUM EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   The owner of a multiple family dwelling or industrial or commercial
structure shall be responsible for providing and maintaining adequate
illumination in all exterior parking lots and walkways.
(`89 Code, § 27.180)
§ 152.37 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. No person shall occupy as owner, occupant or let
to another for occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purposes of
living, sleeping, cooking and eating therein, which does not comply with the
following requirements:
      (1)   A kitchen sink in good working condition and properly connected to
an approved water supply system and which provides at all times an adequate
amount of heated and unheated running water under pressure and which is
connected to an approved sewer system;
      (2)   Cabinets and/or shelves for the storage of eating, drinking and
cooking equipment and utensils and of food that does not require refrigeration
for safekeeping and a counter or table for food preparation. Said cabinets and/
or shelves and counter or table shall be adequate for the permissible occupancy
of the dwelling unit and shall be of sound construction furnished with surfaces
that are easily cleanable and that will not impart any toxic or deleterious
effect to food;
      (3)   A stove or similar device for cooking food and a refrigerator or
similar device for the safe storage of food which are properly installed with
all necessary connections for safe, sanitary and efficient operation; provided
that such stove, refrigerator or similar devices need not be installed when a
dwelling unit is not occupied and when the occupant is expected to provide same
on occupancy, in which case sufficient space and adequate connections for the
installation and operation of the stove, refrigerator or similar device must be
provided.
   (B)   Toilet facilities. Within every dwelling unit there shall be a non-
habitable room with an entrance door which affords privacy to a person within
said room and which room is equipped with a flush water closet in good working
condition. Said flush water closet shall be equipped with easily cleanable
surfaces, shall be connected to an approved water system that at all times
provides an adequate amount of running water under pressure to cause the water
closet to be operated properly and shall be connected to an approved sewer
system. Industrial and commercial structures shall meet State of Minnesota
regulations and statute requirements.
   (C)   Lavatory sink. Within every dwelling unit there shall be a lavatory
sink. The lavatory sink may be in the same room as the flush water closet, or
if located in another room, the lavatory sink shall be located in close
proximity to the door leading directly into the room in which said water closet
is located. The lavatory sink shall be in good working condition and shall be
properly connected to an approved water supply system and shall provide at all
times an adequate amount of heated and unheated running water under pressure
and shall be connected to an approved sewer system. Industrial and commercial
structures shall meet State of Minnesota regulations and statute requirements.
   (D)   Bathtub or shower. Within every dwelling unit there shall be a room
which affords privacy to a person within said room and which is equipped with a
bathtub or shower in good working condition. The bathtub or shower may be in
the same room as the flush water closet or in another room and shall be
properly connected to an approved water supply system and shall provide at all
times an adequate amount of heated and unheated water under pressure and shall
be connected to an approved sewer system. Industrial and commercial structures
shall meet State of Minnesota regulations and statute requirements.
   (E)   Stairways, porches and balconies. Every stairway, inside or outside of
a dwelling, and every porch or balcony shall be kept in safe condition and
sound repair. Every flight or stairs and every porch and balcony floor shall be
free of deterioration. Every stairwell and every flight of stairs which is more
than four risers high shall have handrails not less than 30 inches high,
measured vertically from the nose of the stair tread to the top of the
handrail. Every porch which is more than four risers high and every balcony
shall have handrails not less than 30 inches above the floor of the porch or
balcony. Every handrail and balustrade shall be firmly fastened and maintained
in good condition. No flight of stairs shall have settled out of its intended
position or have pulled away from the supporting or adjacent structures enough
to cause a hazard. No flight of stairs shall have rotting, loose or
deteriorating supports. The treads and risers of every flight of stairs shall
be uniform in width and height. Stairways shall be capable of supporting a live
load of 100 pounds per square foot of horizontal projection. Industrial and
commercial structures shall meet State of Minnesota regulations and statute
requirements.
   (F)   Access to dwelling unit. Access to or egress from each dwelling unit
shall be provided without passing through any other dwelling unit or commercial
or industrial establishment.
   (G)   Door locks. No owner shall occupy nor let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit or industrial or commercial structure unless all
exterior doors of the structure are equipped with safe, functioning locking
devices. Multiple family dwellings shall be furnished with door locks as
follows:
      (1)   For the purpose of providing a reasonable amount of safety and
general welfare for persons occupying multiple family dwellings, an approved
security system shall be provided for each multiple family building to control
access. The security system shall consist of locked building entrance or foyer
doors and locked doors leading from hallways into individual dwelling units.
Dead-bolt type door locks shall be provided with lever knobs (or doorknobs) on
the inside of building entrance doors and with key cylinders on the outside of
building entrance doors. Building entrance door latches shall be of a type that
are permanently locked from the outside and permanently unlocked from the
inside;
      (2)   Every door that is designed to provide ingress or egress for a
dwelling unit within a multiple family building shall be equipped with an
approved lock that has a dead-bolt that cannot be retracted by end pressure;
provided, however, that such door shall be openable from the inside without the
use of a key or any special knowledge or effort.
   (H)   House numbers. No owner shall occupy nor let to another for occupancy
any dwelling unit or apartment building or any industrial or commercial
structure unless the dwelling unit or structure displays the proper street
number, conforming to the following requirements:
      (1)   All numbers shall be not less than three inches high;
      (2)   All houses shall display numbers in a color that contrasts with the
color of the structure;
      (3)   All new homes shall display the proper house number prior to
occupancy.
(`89 Code, § 27.210)
§ 152.38 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   No person shall occupy as owner, occupant or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit for the purpose of living therein,
which does not comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Habitable room ventilation. Except where there is supplied some other
device affording adequate ventilation and approved by the Compliance Official,
every habitable room shall have at least one window facing directly outdoors
which can be opened easily. The minimum total or openable window area in every
habitable room shall be the greater of 4% of the floor area of the room or four
square feet.
   (B)   Nonhabitable room ventilation. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment and every laundry and utility room shall contain at least 50% of
the ventilation requirement for habitable rooms contained in division (A) of
this section, except that no windows shall be required if such rooms are
equipped with a ventilation system which is approved by the Compliance
Official. Industrial and commercial structures shall meet State of Minnesota
regulations and statute requirements.
   (C)   Electric service, outlets and fixtures. Every dwelling unit and all
public and common areas shall be supplied with electric service functioning
over current protection devices, electric outlets and electric fixtures which
are properly installed, which shall be maintained in good and safe working
conditions and shall be connected to a source of electric power in a manner
prescribed by the ordinances, rules and regulations of the City of North St.
Paul and by the laws of the State of Minnesota. The minimum capacity of such
electric service and the minimum number of electric outlets and fixtures shall
be as follows:
      (1)   Dwellings containing one or two dwelling units shall have at least
the equivalent of 60 ampere, three wire electric service per dwelling unit as a
condition of sale;
      (2)   Dwelling units shall have at least one branch electric circuit for
each 600 square feet of dwelling unit floor area;
      (3)   Every habitable room shall have at least one floor or wall-type
electric convenience outlet for each 60 square feet or fraction thereof of
total floor area and in no case less than two such electric outlets; provided,
however, that one ceiling or wall-type light fixture may be supplied in lieu of
one required electric outlet;
      (4)   Every water closet compartment, bathroom, kitchen, laundry room and
furnace room shall contain at least one supplied ceiling or wall-type electric
light fixture and every bathroom and laundry room shall contain at least one
electric convenience outlet;
      (5)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple family dwelling
shall be adequately lighted by natural or electric light at all times so as to
provide effective illumination in all parts thereof. Every public hall and
stairway in structures containing not more than two dwelling units may be
supplied with conveniently located light switches controlling an adequate
lighting system which may be turned on when needed, instead of full-time
lighting;
      (6)   A convenient switch or equivalent device for turning on a light in
each dwelling unit shall be located near the points of entrance to such unit.
Industrial and commercial structures shall meet State of Minnesota regulations
and statute requirements.
(`89 Code, § 27.220)
§ 152.39 MINIMUM THERMAL STANDARDS.
   No person shall occupy as owner, occupant or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit for the purpose of living therein
which does not have heating facilities which are properly installed, which are
maintained in safe and good working condition and which are capable of safely
and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet
compartments in every dwelling unit located therein to a temperature of at
least 68 degrees Fahrenheit at a distance of three feet above floor level and
three feet from exterior walls at an outside temperature of 25 degrees
Fahrenheit or colder. Gas or electric appliances designed primarily for cooking
or water heating purposes shall not be considered as heating facilities within
the meaning of this section. Portable heating equipment employing flame and the
use of liquid fuel does not meet the requirements of this section and is
prohibited. No owner or occupant shall install, operate or use a space heater
employing a flame that is not vented outside the structure in an approved
manner.
(`89 Code, § 27.230)
§ 152.40 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy as owner, occupant or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit for the purpose of living therein
or industrial or commercial structure which does not comply with the following
requirements, unless specifically exempt.
   (A)   Foundations, exterior walls and roofs. The foundation, exterior walls
and exterior roof shall be substantially water tight and protected against
vermin and rodents and shall be kept in sound condition and repair. The
foundation element shall adequately support the building at all points. Every
exterior wall shall be free of deterioration, holes, breaks, loose or rotting
boards or timbers and any other condition which might admit rain or dampness to
the interior portion of the walls or to the exterior spaces of the dwelling.
The roof shall be tight and have no defects which admit rain, and roof drainage
shall be adequate to prevent rain water from causing dampness in the walls. All
exterior wood surfaces, other than decay resistant woods, shall be protected
from the elements and decay by paint or other protective covering or treatment.
If the exterior surface of such a wood structure is unpainted or determined by
the Compliance Official to be paint blistered, the surface shall be painted.
   (B)   Windows, doors and screens. Every window, exterior door and hatchway
shall be substantially tight and shall be kept in sound condition and repair.
Every window, other than a fixed window or storm window, shall be capable of
being easily opened. Every window, door and frame shall be constructed and
maintained in such relation to the adjacent wall construction as to completely
exclude rain, wind, vermin and rodents from entering the building. Every window
or other device with openings to outdoor space which is used or intended to be
used for ventilation shall be supplied with 16-mesh screens during the insect
season. Commercial and industrial structures are exempt from the above
requirements except windows, doors and screens on these structures shall be
kept in good repair.
   (C)   Floors, interior walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling of all structures shall be adequately protected against the passage and
harborage of vermin and rodents and shall be kept in sound condition and good
repair. Every floor shall be free of loose, warped, protruding or rotted
flooring materials. Every interior wall and ceiling of a dwelling, dwelling
unit or public space shall be free of holes and large cracks and loose plaster
and shall be maintained in a tight weatherproof condition. Plaster, paint and
all other surface materials in a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be of such
character as to be easily cleanable and shall be reasonably smooth, clean and
tight. Toxic paint and materials shall not be used where readily accessible to
children. Every toilet room and bathroom floor surface shall be substantially
impervious to water and shall be capable of being maintained easily in a clean
and sanitary condition.
   (D)   Rodent-proof. Every dwelling and accessory structure and industrial or
commercial structure and their premises upon which they are located shall be
maintained in a rodent-free and rodent-proof condition. All openings in the
exterior walls, foundations, basements, ground or first floors and roofs which
have a one-half inch diameter or larger opening shall be rodent-proofed in an
approved manner. Interior floors or basements, cellars and other areas in
contact with the soil shall be paved with concrete or other rodent impervious
material.
   (E)   Fence maintenance. All fences supplied by the owner or agent on the
premises and all fences erected or caused to be erected by an occupant on the
premises shall consist of metal, wood, masonry or other decay resistant
material. Fences shall be maintained in good condition both in appearance and
structure. Wood material shall be protected against decay by use of paint or
other preservatives. (See also section on fences in zoning regulations Chapter
154.)
   (F)   Accessory structure maintenance. Accessory structures supplied by the
owner, agent or tenant occupant on the premises shall be structurally sound and
be maintained in good repair and appearance. The exterior of such structures
shall be made weather resistant through the use of decay-resistant materials
such as paint or other preservatives.
   (G)   Safe building elements. Every foundation, roof, floor, exterior and
interior wall, ceiling, inside and outside stair, every porch and balcony and
every appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of supporting loads
that normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (H)   Facilities to function. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility and every chimney and flue shall be installed and shall be maintained
and shall function effectively in a safe, sound and working condition.
   (I)   Grading and drainage. Every yard, court, passageway and other portions
of a premises shall be graded and drained so as to be free of standing water
within six hours after termination of rainfall.
   (J)   Yard cover. Every yard of a premises shall be provided with adequate
lawn or combined ground cover of vegetation, garden, hedges and shrubbery, and
such yard shall be maintained consistent with §
152.24.
(`89 Code, § 27.240)
§ 152.41 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE AND FACILITIES.
   No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service, facility, equipment
or utility which is required under this chapter to be removed from or shut off
from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling or dwelling unit let or
occupied, except for such temporary interruption as may be necessary while
actual repairs or alterations are in process or during temporary emergencies.
(`89 Code, § 27.250)
§ 152.42 MAXIMUM DENSITY, MINIMUM SPACE, USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy nor permit or let to be occupied any dwelling,
dwelling unit or rooming unit for the purpose of living therein which does not
comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Permissible occupancy of dwelling unit. The maximum permissible
occupancy of any dwelling unit or rooming unit shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   For the first occupant, 150 square feet of habitable room floor
space, and for every additional occupant thereof, at least 100 square feet of
habitable room floor space;
      (2)   In no event shall the total number of occupants exceed two times
the number of habitable rooms, less kitchen.
   (B)   One family per dwelling unit. Not more than one family, except for
temporary guests for 90 days or less, shall occupy a dwelling unit.
(`89 Code, § 27.260)
§ 152.43 MINIMUM CEILING HEIGHT.
   In order to qualify as habitable, rooms shall have a clear ceiling height of
not less than seven feet, six inches, except that in attics or top-half-stories
used for sleeping, study or similar activities, the ceiling height shall be not
less than six feet, six inches over at least one-half of the floor area. In
calculating the floor area of such rooms in attics or top-half-stories, only
those portions of the floor area of the room having a clear ceiling height of
five feet or more may be included.
(`89 Code, § 27.270)
§ 152.44 PERMISSIBLE OCCUPANCY OF SLEEPING ROOMS.
   In every dwelling unit every room occupied for sleeping purposes shall have
a minimum floor area of 70 square feet. Every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by more than two occupants shall contain at least 50 square feet of
floor area for each occupant thereof. The floor area of closets within sleeping
rooms may be credited to minimum floor area requirements.
(`89 Code, § 27.280)
§ 152.45 ACCESS THROUGH SLEEPING ROOMS AND BATHROOMS.
   No dwelling unit containing two or more sleeping rooms shall have a room
arrangement such that access to a bathroom or water closet compartment intended
for use by occupants of more than one sleeping room can be gained only by going
through another sleeping room, nor shall the room arrangement be such that
access to a sleeping room can be gained only by going through another sleeping
room. A bathroom or water closet compartment shall not be used as the only
passageway to any habitable room, hall, basement or cellar or to the exterior
of any dwelling unit.
(`89 Code, § 27.290)
§ 152.46 TIME LIMIT TO FINISH EXTERIOR OF A STRUCTURE.
   Thirty day limit. When a structure is ready for the exterior to be finished,
it shall not be allowed to remain with an unfinished exterior for more than 30
days; provided, upon application to the city showing good cause for an
extension, the city may extend the time limit to a specific date beyond the 30
days.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-2-08)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.60 ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTION AUTHORITY.
   The City Manager and designated agents shall be the Compliance Official who
shall administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter and who are
authorized to cause inspections on a scheduled basis and/or when reason exists
to believe that a violation of this chapter has been or is being committed.
   (A)   Certificate of compliance. When the occupancy or ownership of any
building containing one or more dwelling units within the City of North St.
Paul is about to change, the present occupant or owner, or any agent thereof,
shall make application for the certificate of compliance from the City of North
St. Paul. This section shall not apply to multiple dwelling buildings and shall
have no effect upon the provisions of law or other ordinances relating to the
issuance of building permits.
   (B)   Application; inspection. Application for the certificate of compliance
shall be made upon forms furnished by the city and approved by the City
Council. Upon receipt of a properly executed application for a certificate of
compliance, the Compliance Officer shall cause an inspection to be made of the
premises to insure that the structure is in compliance with the minimal
requirements of this Code. Such inspection shall be based upon requirements of
this Code only and shall not be used to discriminate against any person on the
basis of race, color, sex, income level or any other basis not contained in
this Code.
   (C)   Issuance of certificate. If the structure is in compliance with the
minimal requirements of this Code, the Compliance Officer shall cause a
certificate of compliance to be issued to the present occupant or owner, which
shall state that the structure has been inspected and is in compliance with the
minimal requirements of this Code. The present occupant, owner or their agent
shall obtain the certificate of compliance.
   (D)   Filing of certificate by prospective occupant or purchaser. The
present occupant or owner or their agent shall furnish a copy of the
certificate of compliance to the prospective occupant or owner, who shall file
a copy of the certificate with the city. The proposed buyer or occupant shall
not take occupancy of the building and premises prior to the filing of the
certificate with the city, except that upon the filing of an affidavit by the
present or prospective owner or occupant, or his or her designated agent,
approved by the Compliance Officer, which sets forth the dates by which
necessary corrective action shall be taken, the occupancy shall be permitted
pending issuance of the certificate of compliance.
   (E)   Fee. The fee for the inspection and certificate of compliance of a
building and its premises shall be set by Council ordinance.
   (F)   Request by occupant. Upon complaint of any occupant of a dwelling,
dwelling unit or rooming unit and payment of the fee, the Compliance Official
shall proceed under this Code as if the requirements of division (A) of this
section were complied with, except that any enforcement of this Code shall be
done by the occupant, pursuant to Minnesota statutes.
(`89 Code, § 27.300)
§ 152.61 INSPECTION ACCESS.
   If any owner, occupant or other person in charge of a dwelling, dwelling
unit or rooming unit, industrial or commercial structure fails or refuses to
permit free access and entry to the structure or premises under his or her
control for an inspection pursuant to this Code, the Compliance Official may
seek a court order authorizing such inspection.
(`89 Code, § 27.310)
§ 152.62 UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   When any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, industrial or
commercial structure is not in compliance with this Code, and such
noncompliance is to such an extent that it has created an immediate hazard to
the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or of the public, as determined
by the Compliance Official, he or she may declare the same to be unfit for
human occupancy. Whenever any premises and/or structure has been declared unfit
for human occupancy, the Compliance Official shall order the same vacated,
within a reasonable time, and shall post a placard on the same indicating that
it is unfit for human occupancy.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit or
industrial or commercial structure to be occupied until the defective
conditions have been corrected and written approval has been issued by the
Compliance Official. It shall be unlawful for any person to deface or remove
the declaration placard from any such premises and/or structure.
   (C)   All orders for vacation pursuant to this section shall be reported to
the City Council, who shall hold a hearing on the same at the next regular City
Council meeting following the issuance of the order. The City Council may
reverse, modify or affirm, in whole or in part, any vacation order.
(`89 Code, § 27.320)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.63 SECURE UNFIT AND VACATED DWELLINGS.
   The owner of any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit, industrial or
commercial structure which has been declared unfit for human occupancy or which
is otherwise vacant for a period of 60 days or more shall make same safe and
secure so that it is not hazardous to the health, safety and welfare of the
public and does not constitute a public nuisance. Any vacant dwelling open at
doors or windows, if unguarded, shall be deemed to be a hazard to the health,
safety and welfare of the public and a public nuisance within the meaning of
this chapter.
(`89 Code, § 27.330)
§ 152.64 HAZARDOUS BUILDING DECLARATION.
   In the event that a dwelling has been declared unfit for human occupancy and
the owner has not remedied the defects within a prescribed reasonable time, the
dwelling may be declared a hazardous building and treated consistent with the
provisions of Minnesota statutes and the city code.
(`89 Code, § 27.340)
§ 152.65 COMPLIANCE ORDER.
   (A)   Whenever the Compliance Official determines that any structure or the
premises surrounding fails to meet the provisions of this Code, he or she shall
issue a Compliance Order setting forth the violations of the Code and ordering
the owner, occupant, operator or agent to correct such violations.
   (B)   This Compliance Order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Describe the location and nature of the violations of this Code;
      (3)   Establish a reasonable time for the correction of such violations;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent or the occupant, as
the case may require. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served upon
such owner or agent, or upon any such occupant, if a copy thereof is:
         (a)   Personal service,
         (b)   Sent by registered mail to last known address, or
         (c)   Upon failure to effect notice through subsections (a) and (b) as
set out in this section, posted at a conspicuous place in or above the dwelling
which is affected by the notice.
(`89 Code, § 27.350)
§ 152.66 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   When it is alleged by any person to whom a compliance order is directed that
such compliance order is based upon erroneous interpretation of this Code, such
person may appeal the compliance order to the hearing officer. Such appeals
must be in writing, must specify the grounds for the appeal, must be
accompanied by a filing fee of $15 in cash or cashier’s check and must be filed
with the City Manager within five business days after service of the compliance
order. The filing of an appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from, unless such a stay would cause imminent peril to life,
health or property. Upon at least five business days notice to the appellant of
the time and place for hearing the appeal, and within 30 days after filing said
appeal, the hearing officer shall hold a hearing thereon. The hearing officer
may reverse, modify or affirm, in whole or in part, the compliance order.
(`89 Code, § 27.360)
§ 152.67 RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit upon whom a pending compliance order has been served to sell, transfer,
mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose thereof to another person until the
provisions of the tag or compliance order have been complied with, unless such
owner shall furnish to the grantee, lessee or mortgagee a true copy of any
notice of acknowledging. Anyone securing an interest in the dwelling, dwelling
unit or rooming unit who has received notice of the existence of a violation
tag or compliance order shall be bound by same without further service and
shall be liable to all penalties and procedures provided by this chapter.
(`89 Code, § 27.370)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.68 EXECUTION OF COMPLIANCE ORDERS BY SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Upon failure to comply with a compliance order within the time set therein
and no appeal having been taken, or upon failure to comply with a modified
compliance order within the time set therein, the same shall be deemed a
nuisance, and, in addition to the criminal penalty, the Council may, pursuant
to the procedures of M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time,
cause the cited deficiencies to be remedied by a public improvement, and
specially assessed accordingly, except it shall be payable in a single
installment.
(`89 Code, § 27.380)
§ 152.69 ALTERNATIVE SANCTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the availability of the foregoing compliance procedures and
the penalties, whenever the Compliance Official determines that any dwelling,
dwelling unit or rooming unit or the premises surrounding any of these fails to
meet the requirements set forth in this Code, the Compliance Official may issue
a violation tag summoning the responsible person into court or request the
issuance of a criminal complaint and arrest warrant.
(`89 Code, § 27.390)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
Title and Application
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Platting authority
   
153.004   Relation to other laws and regulations
   
153.005   Policy
   
153.006   Administration
Rules and Definitions
   
153.020   Application of rules
   
153.021   Definitions
General Provisions and Administration
   
153.030   Premature subdivision prohibited
   
153.031   Fees
   
153.032   Acceptance and recordation conditions
   
153.033   Reserved
   
153.034   Building permits
   
153.035   Variances/exceptions
   
153.036   Administrative subdivisions
   
153.037   Filing and review of application
   
153.038   Required application information
   
153.039   Recording, procedure and timeframe
Preliminary Plat
   
153.050   Purpose
   
153.051   Filing and review of preliminary plat application
   
153.052   Information required for preliminary plat
   
153.053   Reserved
   
153.054   Approval or denial of preliminary plat
Final Plat
   
153.070   Purpose
   
153.071   Timing of final plat application
   
153.072   Filing and review of final plat application
   
153.073   Information required for final plat; final plans
   
153.074   Approval or denial of final plat
   
153.075   Public improvements
   
153.076   Development agreement
   
153.077   Recording
   
153.078   Dedication
   
153.079   Record plans (as-built plans)
Park Land Dedication Requirements
   
153.090   Land dedication or cash contribution
   
153.091   Dedication of land
   
153.092   Cash contribution
   
153.093   Disputes and appeals
General Regulations
   
153.110   Lot splits for two family dwellings
   
153.111   Special subdivision regulations in mixed-use zoning districts
Enforcement
   
153.120   Violations
   
153.121   Application to city personnel
   
153.122   Injunction
 
   
153.999   Penalty
TITLE AND APPLICATION
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited, and referred to as the "North Saint Paul
Subdivision Regulations," and will be referred to as "this chapter."
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   The City Council, being aware of the responsibility that it has for the
adoption of ordinances, rules, and regulations designed for the protection of
public health, safety, and general welfare, deems it necessary to provide
regulations for platting and subdividing of property within the city. Piecemeal
planning of subdivisions, without correlation to the comprehensive plan, can
bring a disconnected patchwork of plats, poor traffic circulation, and an
undesirable atmosphere. All subdivisions platted within the jurisdiction of the
city after the adoption of this chapter shall, in all respects, fully comply
with the regulations set forth in this chapter to ensure new subdivisions
contribute toward an attractive, orderly and stable community environment, and
shall be designed with adequate municipal services and efficient movement of
traffic.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.003 PLATTING AUTHORITY.
   The City Council shall serve as the platting authority of the city in
accordance with M.S. § 462.358, as may be amended. No plat or replat shall be
filed or accepted for filing by the Office of the County Recorder or Registrar
of Titles unless approved by a majority of the members of the City Council
voting on such plat or replat. The Building Official shall not issue building
permits for any structure on a lot in any proposed subdivision that has not
been approved by the City Council and does not have improved road or street
frontage. The City Council shall not permit any property owner or developer to
install any public improvement unless the final plat is approved. The city does
not permit any land disturbance, site grading or the installation of public
utilities and services before the City Council approval of a development
agreement and the applicant having filed all required financial securities.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.004 RELATION TO OTHER LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   The city does not intend by the provisions of this chapter to repeal,
abrogate, annul or in any way impair or interfere with private restrictions
placed upon property by deed, covenant or other private agreements that are
equal to or more restrictive, or with restrictive covenants running with the
land to which the city is a party except that the most restrictive shall apply.
The city shall not be obligated to enforce private restrictions. In their
interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall be the
minimum requirements adopted for the protection of the public health, safety,
and general welfare.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.005 POLICY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of a plat to be subject to
the control of the city pursuant to the comprehensive plan for the orderly,
planned, efficient, and economical development of the city.
   (B)   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health from fire, flood, or
other hazard. Land shall not be subdivided unless proper provisions have been
made for drainage, stormwater management, wetland protection, potable water,
domestic wastewater and sanitary sewer, streets, and capital improvements such
as parks, trails, recreation facilities, transportation facilities, stormwater
improvements, and any other necessary improvements.
   (C)   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the comprehensive plan and capital improvement plan of the
city.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter are in addition to and not in
replacement of provisions of all building and zoning regulations. Any provision
of the building and zoning regulations shall remain in full force and effect
except as may be contradictory to the provisions hereof where any provision
conflicts with another provision, the more restrictive provision shall be
applied.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.006 ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered by the Zoning Administrator who is
appointed by the City Manager.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
§ 153.020 APPLICATION OF RULES.
   The language contained in this chapter shall be interpreted in accordance
with the following rules of construction as applicable:
   (A)   The singular includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   (B)   The present includes the past and future tenses, and the future tense
includes the present tense.
   (C)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and the feminine gender
includes the masculine.
   (D)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in this chapter,
its meaning shall be construed as set forth in such definition.
   (E)   In the event of conflicting provisions, the more restrictive provision
shall apply.
   (F)   The words "shall" and "must" are always mandatory and not merely
discretionary.
   (G)   All measured distances expressed in feet shall be to the nearest tenth
of a foot.
   (H)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, wherever a term, phrase, word and their
derivatives appear in this chapter such term, phrase, word and their
derivatives shall have the meaning given to them solely and for the purposes of
implementation of this chapter:
   ABUT/ABUTTING. Contiguous; having a common boundary, wall, or property line.
   ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISION. The division of property by metes and bounds
description, subject to city staff approval.
   ALLEY. See “street-alley.”
   APPLICANT. Any person who wishes to obtain a building permit, zoning, or
subdivision approval, or a permit to allow land-disturbing activities.
APPLICANT also means that person's agents, employees, and others acting under
this person's direction.
   AREA MAP. See “key map.”
   ASSESSED VALUE. The value of real property as established by the County
Assessor.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a plat, containing lots, that is entirely
bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets, shorelines, waterways,
railroad right-of-way, the exterior boundary or boundaries of the subdivision.
   BOULEVARD. That portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line or
edge of pavement and the property line.
   BOUNDARY LINES. Lines indicating the bounds or limits of any tract or parcel
of land.
   BOXES. All mailboxes, newspaper boxes, and advertising boxes wherein either
mail is distributed, newspapers and magazines are distributed, or advertising
is placed for the use of residents of the city.
   BUILD OUT PLAN. See "ghost plat."
   BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining on a parcel after the minimum setback,
drainage provisions, ponding, compensatory storage, soils, open space and other
site constraint requirements and building restriction lines of this chapter
have been met.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN. An itemized program setting forth the schedule and
details of specific contemplated public improvements by fiscal year, together
with their estimated cost, the justification for each improvement, the impact
that the improvements will have on the current operating expense of the
government, and other information on capital improvements as may be pertinent.
   CITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE. A committee that may consist of Council members or
non-Council members or both such as the Planning Commission and the Parks and
Recreation Commission.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. An area of land, water or combination thereof planned for
active or passive recreation that is an integral part of a development and is
not owned on an individual basis by each owner of the dwelling unit. COMMON
OPEN SPACE does not include areas used for streets, alleys, driveways or
private roads, off-street parking or loading areas, or required yards. The area
of recreational activities such as swimming pools, tennis courts, shuffleboard
courts, etc., may be included as common open space.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A compilation of policy statements, goals, standards,
and maps, and action programs for guiding the future development of private and
public property. The term includes a plan designating types of uses for the
entire city as well as a specialized plan showing specific areas or specific
types of land uses, such as residential, commercial, industrial, public or
semipublic uses or any combination of such uses. A land use plan also may
include the proposed densities for development.
   CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL. Conditions that are established by city staff and/or
the City Council and approved by the City Council that a developer must meet to
obtain approval of a development proposal.
   CONSULTANTS. Professionals hired by the city, such as the City Attorney and
the City Engineer.
   CONTOUR MAP. A map on which irregularities of land surface are shown by
lines connecting points of equal elevations. Contour interval is the vertical
height between contour lines.
   COUNTY. Ramsey County, Minnesota.
   DEPOSIT. The placing of funds in an account maintained by the city
specifically for the purpose of ensuring fulfillment of certain obligations
required by this chapter.
   DEVELOPABLE LAND. Contiguous land area occurring within the property lines
of parcel(s) or lot excluding wetlands, water courses, ponds, public waters
below the ordinary high-water mark, and easements for pipelines and utility
transmission lines.
   DEVELOPER. A person, firm, corporation, sole proprietorship, partnership,
state agency or political subdivision thereof engaged in the subdivision of
land or land disturbance activity.
   DEVELOPMENT. The acts of land preparation, building structures and
installing site improvements or the subdivision of land.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. A written agreement between the city and a developer,
drafted by the City Attorney.
   DEVELOPMENT DENSITY. The number of individual dwelling units per acre of
land that can be located on a parcel of land or within a particular project,
development or subdivision as established through the zoning code and
comprehensive plan.
   DRAINAGE COURSE. A water course or indentation for the transmission of
surface water.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the owner of land to the general public or to others
for a specific use of the land.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer of the City of North St. Paul.
   ENGINEERING STANDARDS. The specifications to landowners or subdividers for
the preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other
things the optimum, minimum, or maximum dimensions of items as rights-of-way,
streets, sidewalks, trails, and utilities, as approved by the City Council.
   EROSION. Any process that wears away the surface of the land by the action
of water, wind, ice or gravity. EROSION can be accelerated by the activities of
man and nature.
   EROSION CONTROL. Methods employed to prevent erosion. Examples include soil
stabilization practices, horizontal slope grading, temporary or permanent
cover, and construction phasing.
   FINANCIAL GUARANTEE. A financial security posted with the city upon the
approval of a final plat, guaranteeing compliance with the approved final plat,
construction plans, and conditions of approval set forth by the City Council.
   GHOST PLAT. A subdivision or resubdivision concept plan illustrating
possible future lot layout, street networks, and utility systems for oversized
lots, outlots or undeveloped land adjoining a preliminary plat.
   GRADE, FINISHED. The finished ground level adjoining the building at all
exterior walls.
   GRADE, NATURAL. The grade of a site before it is modified by moving earth,
adding or removing fill, or installing a berm, retaining wall or other
earthwork feature. NATURAL GRADES are determined by reference to a survey, or
other information as determined by the City Engineer or the Zoning
Administrator.
   GRADE, PERCENTAGE OF. The rise or fall of a street in feet and tenths of a
foot for each 100 feet of horizontal distance measured at the center line of
the street, or similar ratio of land elevations measured against an established
baseline.
   LOT, FLAG. Any lot having less frontage on a public way than is typical for
the block in which the lot is proposed and is configured such that a narrow
access corridor extends from the point of frontage to a larger portion of the
lot (the "rear lot").
   LOT FRONTAGE. The length of the property line of a premises along an
abutting public right-of-way.
   LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot other than a corner, through or flag lot.
   LOT LINE. A line of record bounding a lot that divides one lot from another
lot or from a public or private street or alley or any other public space.
   LOT, NON-CONFORMING. See “non-conforming lot.”
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described, as of the effective date of this chapter, or approved by the city as
a lot subsequent to such date, and which is occupied by or intended for
occupancy by one principal use, together with any accessory buildings or the
open spaces as required by this chapter and having its principal frontage on a
street, or a proposed street approved by the Council.
   LOT WIDTH. The maximum horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a
lot measured within the first 30 feet of lot depth.
   METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. A description of real property that is not
described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map but is described by
starting at a known point and describing the bearings and distances of the
lines forming the boundaries of the property or delineates a fractional portion
of a section, lot, or area by described lines or portions thereof.
   NATURAL WATER WAY. A natural passageway in the surface of the earth allowing
water to flow from one point to another.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. Any separate parcel or lot that does not meet the zoning
district regulations for minimum lot width, lot depth and/or lot size.
   NORMAL WATER LEVEL (NWL). For a reservoir with a fixed overflow, the NWL is
the lowest crest level of that overflow. For a reservoir whose outflow is
controlled wholly or partly by movable gates, siphons or other means, it is the
maximum level to which water may rise under normal operating conditions,
exclusive of any provision for flood storage. For a closed depression wetland,
it is the maximum level to which the water may rise under normal precipitation
conditions exclusive of any provision for flood storage. The NORMAL WATER LEVEL
will typically be the outlet elevation of a pond, lake, or other standing water
body.
   ORDINARY HIGH-WATER LEVEL (OHWL). The boundary of public waters and wetlands
and shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level that has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial.
   OUTLOT. A parcel of land shown on a subdivision plat that is not part of a
block and is shown as an outlot, and designated alphanumerically, (for example:
Outlot A). OUTLOTS are used to designate one of the following: land that is
part of the subdivision but is to be final platted into lots and blocks at a
later date; or land that is to be used for a specific purpose as designated in
a development agreement or other agreement between the city and the developer.
   PARKS. Public land and open spaces in the city that are dedicated or
reserved for recreational purposes.
   PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION. The Parks and Recreation Commission of the
city, except when otherwise designated.
   PEDESTRIAN AND/OR BICYCLE TRAIL. An easement or land dedication given to the
city for the purpose of providing walking and/or bicycling areas to city
residents. The trails shall provide recreational opportunities and access to
parks, natural areas, and public land in accordance with the comprehensive
plan.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, trustee, receiver, assignee, partnership,
unincorporated society or association, limited liability company, corporation
or any other type of business or association, including respective successors
or assigns.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of North St. Paul
established by the City Council to perform planning pursuant to M.S. § 462.354.
   PLAT. The drawing or map of a subdivision prepared for filing of record
pursuant to M.S. § 505 and containing all elements and requirements set forth
in applicable local regulations adopted pursuant to M.S. § 462.358 and M.S. §
505, as may be amended.
   PLAT, COMMON INTEREST COMMUNITY (CIC). A common interest community plat
pursuant to M.S. § 515B.2-101, as may be amended. CIC means contiguous or
noncontiguous real estate within Minnesota that is subject to an instrument
which obligates persons owning a separately described parcel of the real
estate, or occupying a part of the real estate pursuant to a proprietary lease,
by reason of their ownership or occupancy, to pay for real estate taxes levied
against; insurance premiums payable with respect to; maintenance of; or
construction, maintenance, repair or replacement of improvements located on one
or more parcels or parts of the real estate other than the parcel or part that
the person owns or occupies. Real estate subject to a master association,
regardless of when the master association was formed, shall not collectively
constitute a separate common interest community unless so stated in the master
declaration recorded against the real estate.
   PLAT, FINAL. The final map or drawings and accompanying material described
in §§ 152.080 et seq. on which the developer's plan or subdivision is presented
to the City Council for approval and that, if approved, will be submitted to
the Office of the County Recorder or Registrar of Titles for filing.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The preliminary map or drawings and accompanying material
described in §§ 152.070 et seq. indicating the proposed layout of the
subdivision to be submitted to the city for its consideration for compliance
with the comprehensive plan, zoning code, the official map, and this chapter
along with the required supporting data.
   PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. Used in connection with the granting of a variance,
means that the property owner proposes to use or subdivide the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by the ordinance, the plight of the landowner
is due to circumstances unique to the property not created by the landowner,
and the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the
locality. Economic considerations alone do not constitute PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES.
   PROPERTY LINE. The legal boundaries of a parcel of property.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, street, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, water system, sidewalk, pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-
street parking area, street lights, lot improvement or other facility for which
the city may ultimately assume ownership, responsibility for maintenance and
operation, or which may affect an improvement, for which local government
responsibility is or may be established.
   PUBLIC LAND. Land owned or operated by a municipality, school district,
county, state or other governmental unit.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Open space owned by the city, county, state, school
district or other special district.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Water basins and water courses of the state as defined in
M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 15.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEY. A survey map of registered land designed to simplify
a complicated metes and bounds description by designating the same into a tract
or tracts of a REGISTERED LAND SURVEY.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor licensed and registered in the
state.
   RE-SUBDIVISION. A change in an approved or recorded subdivision plat if the
change affects any street layout on such map or area reserved for public use,
or any lot line or if it affects any map, or plan legally recorded prior to the
adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land acquired by reservation or dedication intended for public
use and to be occupied by a street, trail, railroad, utility lines, oil or gas
pipeline, water line, sanitary sewer, storm sewer or other similar uses. RIGHT-
OF-WAY includes any "public ways."
   SHORELAND. Land located within 1,000 feet from the normal high-water level
of a lake, pond, or flowage; and land within 300 feet of a river or stream.
   SHORELAND ALTERATION. Grading or filling of shoreland areas or any
alteration of the natural topography where the slope of the land is toward a
public water or a watercourse leading to a public water.
   SHORELAND DISTRICT. Land located within a floodplain, within 1,000 feet of
the OHWL of a public water or public waters wetland or within 300 feet of a
stream or river.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A term used for flood insurance purposes
synonymous with one hundred year floodplain.
   STREET (TYPES).
      1.   ALLEY. A thoroughfare through the middle of a block giving access to
the rear of lots or buildings.
      2.   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient turn around for traffic
movement.
      3.   CUL-DE-SAC, TEMPORARY. A temporary turnaround whose purpose is to
allow the safe and convenient turnaround for traffic, until such time the
street is extended.
      4.   FRONTAGE. A public or private street intended for the collection of
traffic that would otherwise directly access minor or major collectors or
arterial roadways whose function is to provide access to streets of higher
classification.
      5.   HIGHWAY. Any public street or road designated as a highway by an
appropriate local, state or federal agency.
      6.   LOCAL STREET. A roadway with traffic volumes generally less than
2,500 vehicle trips per day containing one lane of traffic in each direction
whose primary function is to provide access to and from property.
      7.   MAJOR COLLECTOR. A roadway that links residential and commercial
uses with a balance between mobility and access and whose function is to
provide traffic circulation within the city and access to and from minor and
major arterials.
      8.   MINOR COLLECTOR. A roadway whose primary function is to provide
access to and from major collectors and local streets.
      9.   MINOR ARTERIAL. An interregional road containing one or two lanes in
each direction with limited access and controlled intersections at other
arterials and collector streets. MINOR ARTERIALS convey traffic between towns,
cities or other urban centers. Efficient movement is the primary function of a
minor arterial road.
      10.   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across a block or
within a block to provide access to be used by pedestrians and others.
      11.   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A limited access interregional arterial route
containing two or more lanes in each direction. They are designated exclusively
for unrestricted movement, have no private access and intersect only with
selected arterial highways or major streets by means of interchanges engineered
for free-flowing movement.
      12.   PRIVATE STREET. A street serving as vehicular access to two or more
parcels of land that is not dedicated to the public and that is owned,
maintained and repaired by one or more private parties. PRIVATE STREETS are not
owned or maintained by the city.
   SUBDIVISION. This term means:
      1.   The division of land by platting, conveyance, registered land survey
or other means into two or more lots, plats, sites or other divisions, any of
which is less than five acres in area;
      2.   A division of land, regardless of area, if such division or plat
provides for the granting or dedicating of a public street; or
      3.   The re-subdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into lots,
sites or parcels, where the total area of the land being re-subdivided is one
acre or more.
   SURFACE WATERS. Waters of the state excluding groundwater as defined in M.S.
§ 115.01, Subd. 6.
   UNIT LOT. A lot created from the subdivision of a two-family dwelling, a
multi-family dwelling or an attached or detached townhouse having different
minimum lot size requirements than the conventional base lot within the zoning
district.
   VACATION. The act of relinquishing a recorded dedication or easement as in a
street right-of-way, utility easement, etc.
   WATER BODY. All surface waters, water basins, watercourse, and wetlands as
defined in this code.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. Surface or underground waters, except surface waters
that are not confined but are spread and diffused over the land. WATERS OF THE
STATE include boundary and inland waters and as defined in state statutes.
   WATERSHED. The area drained by the natural and artificial drainage system,
bounded peripherally by a bridge or stretch of high land dividing drainage
areas.
   WETLAND. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support and that, under
normal circumstances, does support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic
vegetation. Any wetland as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 19.
   ZONING CODE. The North Saint Paul Zoning Regulations (Chapter 154 of the
City Code), as may be amended, controlling the use of land within the city.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.030 PREMATURE SUBDIVISION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any proposed subdivision deemed premature for development shall be
denied by the City Council.
   (B)   The burden shall be upon the applicant to show the proposed
subdivision is not premature.
   (C)   The city may deem a subdivision premature should any of the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Inconsistency with comprehensive plan, zoning code, regulations,
engineering standards, or any policies adopted by the City Council.
      2.   Lack of adequate water supply. A proposed subdivision shall be
deemed to lack an adequate water supply if municipal water is not available to
each lot created or affected by the plat.
      3.   Lack of adequate roads to serve the subdivision. A proposed
subdivision shall be deemed to lack adequate roads if direct access to a public
road is not possible or if the roads that serve the proposed subdivision are
deemed inadequate by the City Engineer.
      4.   Lack of adequate waste disposal systems. A proposed subdivision
shall be deemed to lack adequate waste disposal systems if municipal sanitary
sewer is not available to the plat or if in subdivisions for which sanitary
sewer lines are proposed, there is inadequate sanitary sewer capacity in the
present system to support the subdivision if developed to its maximum
permissible density indicated in the comprehensive plan, as may be amended.
      5.   Lack of adequate drainage. A condition of inadequate drainage shall
be deemed to exist if:
         (a)   Surface or subsurface water retention and runoff is such that it
constitutes a danger to the structural security of the proposed structures and/
or adjacent properties.
         (b)   The proposed subdivision will cause pollution of water sources
or damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream land.
         (c)   The proposed site grading and development will cause harmful and
irreparable damage from erosion and siltation on downstream land.
         (d)   Factors to be considered in making these determinations may
include:
            i.   Average rainfall for the area.
            ii.   The relation of the land to floodplains.
            iii.   The nature of soils and subsoils and their ability to
adequately support surface water runoff and waste disposal systems.
            iv.   The slope of the land and its effect on effluents.
            v.   The presence of streams as related to effluent disposal.
            vi.   The proposed subdivision is inconsistent with the Minnesota
Environmental Review Program, Minn. Rules Ch. 4410, as may be amended, and
could adversely impact critical environmental areas, or potentially disrupt or
destroy historic areas that are designated or officially recognized by the
city, in violation of federal and state historical preservation laws.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.031 FEES.
   The fees for all applications and for all permits shall be established by
the City Council by ordinance. No application shall be considered complete
without payment of established fees. The acceptance of all applications,
issuance of permits, or recording of any plat shall not occur until the
appropriate fees have been paid.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.032 ACCEPTANCE AND RECORDATION CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Approvals necessary for acceptance of subdivision plats. Before any
plat or subdivision shall be recorded or be of any validity, it shall be
referred to the Planning Commission and approved by the City Council as having
fulfilled the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Conditions for recording. No plat or subdivision shall be entitled to
be recorded in the Office of the County Recorder or have any validity until the
plat thereof has been prepared, approved, and acknowledged in the manner
prescribed by this chapter.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.033 RESERVED.
§ 153.034 BUILDING PERMITS.
   The city shall not issue a building permit for any construction,
enlargement, alteration, repair, demolition, or moving of any building or
structure on any lot or parcel until all the requirements of this chapter and/
or the zoning code have been fully met or exceptions from this requirement have
been formally established by a development agreement.
   (A)   Final plat conditions of approval. Unless otherwise stipulated by the
City Council in the development agreement, the city will not issue building
permits for new subdivisions until such time as the developer has completed all
the final plat conditions of approval.
   (B)   Model homes. The city may grant building permits for model homes in a
subdivision as provided in the development agreement.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.035 VARIANCES/EXCEPTIONS.
   The City Council may approve variances or exceptions from the minimum
standards of this chapter (not procedural provisions) when, in its opinion,
exceptional practical difficulties may result from strict compliance and the
variance will not interfere with the purpose and intent of this chapter or when
the variance is granted pursuant to an approved planned unit development
pursuant to § 154.008(C).
   (A)   Variance or exception criteria. In approving any variance or
exception, the City Council shall prescribe any conditions that it deems
necessary or desirable to the public interest. In granting its approval, the
City Council shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and
the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons who will reside
or work in the proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. Hardship relating to
economic difficulties shall not be considered for the purpose of granting a
variance. The city shall only approve a variance when the City Council finds
that each and every one of the following apply:
      1.   There are special circumstances or highly unique conditions
affecting the property such that the strict application of the provisions of
this chapter would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of land;
      2.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, and welfare or injurious to other property in the vicinity in
which the development site is situated;
      3.   The granting of the variance will not increase the flood hazard or
flood damage potential;
      4.   The practical difficulties result from conditions such as topography
or water conditions unique to the property and not common to other properties
in the city, or inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems;
      5.   The practical difficulties are not a result of an action or actions
by the owner, applicant, or any agent thereof;
      6.   Economic considerations alone cannot create practical difficulties;
and
      7.   The granting of the variance will not allow a use not otherwise
permitted in the zoning code.
   (B)   Procedure. The procedures for processing variance applications shall
comply with § 154.004 (E) s may be amended.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.036 ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      1.   The administrative subdivision is a city staff review and approval
process in which there are limited requirements for an applicant to:
         (a)   Divide an existing property into two or three lots; or
         (b)   Combine multiple lots into one parcel: or
         (c)   Adjust a common lot line affecting existing parcels.
      2.   Parcels resulting from any of the above-mentioned subdivisions must
be consistent with all zoning code requirements and other applicable
regulations. The city requires the lot division and/or the lot consolidation to
be completed before the city will issue a building permit. In areas that are
not well defined, or where lots are irregular in shape and/or are included in
more than one plat, the city may require the lot division or lot consolidation
occur through the major subdivision platting requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The city will consider an application for an administrative
subdivision of property subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The proposed administrative subdivision must be for a parcel of land
that fronts on an existing public street that does not:
         (a)   Require any new street or right-of-way;
         (b)   Require the creation of any public improvements with the
exception of sidewalks or trails;
         (c)   Adversely affects the remainder of the parcel or adjoining
property;
         (d)   Conflict with any provisions of the comprehensive plan, zoning
code, official map, or any other city regulations, including this chapter; and
         (e)   Cause any parcel or any structure on any parcel to be in
violation of this chapter, the zoning regulations, or the building code.
   (C)   An administrative subdivision shall not result in the creation of more
than three lots.
   (D)   Lot consolidation. Two or more parcels, whether recorded platted lots
or not, must be consolidated into one parcel.
   (E)   Lot line adjustment. A lot line may be adjusted by relocating a common
boundary.
   (F)   Rezoning. If the subdivision, lot line adjustment or combination would
cause one of the parcels to have two different zoning classifications, the
applicant must request the city to rezone the property to achieve a consistent
zoning classification for the newly created parcel.
   (G)   Easements. The owner must request, and the city must approve the
vacation of any easements that become unnecessary because of the combination of
parcels. In addition, the city may require the applicant or property owner to
dedicate new easements where appropriate.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.037 FILING AND REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Before any contract is made for the sale of any part thereof, and
before the city grants any permit for site grading or for the erection of a
structure on such proposed property, the owner or authorized agent shall file
an application with the city and secure approval of an administrative
subdivision, lot consolidation or lot line adjustment.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator or appointee shall review the application and
required information to determine conformance with the comprehensive plan,
zoning code, official map, and this chapter. The Zoning Administrator shall
give final approval of an administrative subdivision, lot consolation or lot
line adjustment. In reviewing the application, the Zoning Administrator may
request comments from its consultants and may refer the matter to the Planning
Commission, if necessary. Unless a request for additional review time is
requested by the Zoning Administrator, the city shall act on the application
within 60 days.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall serve as the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals if the application for an administrative subdivision, lot combination
or lot line adjustment is denied by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.038 REQUIRED APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Application materials.
      1.   An applicant shall submit the following information along with a
city land use application for an administrative subdivision: A current
certificate of survey prepared by a registered land surveyor that includes:
         (a)   Scale not more than one-inch equals 100 feet;
         (b)   North point indication;
         (c)   Original and proposed lot boundaries;
         (d)   Existing and proposed parcel legal descriptions;
         (e)   The location of existing structures on the site;
         (f)   Existing and proposed driveway locations;
         (g)   Existing and proposed easement locations;
         (h)   Environmental constraints of the site;
         (i)   Existing parks, streets and utility easements including the
location, right-of-way widths and names of all existing or previously platted
streets or other public or private ways, and railroad and utility rights-of-
way;
         (j)   Delineated wetlands and waterbodies, drainage flows and drainage
improvements;
         (k)   Individual sewer treatment systems and/or well locations; and
         (l)   Existing and proposed utilities.
      2.   A soil test report showing structural bearing capacity at the soils
if necessary to evaluate the proposed development.
      3.   A title search showing the ownership of the property and any
existing deed restrictions, and the names and addresses of any persons having
recorded or known interests in the property as well as their consent to the
proposed subdivision.
      4.   Proposed name of the subdivision. Names shall not duplicate or too
closely resemble names of existing or known proposed subdivisions within Ramsey
County.
      5.   Additional information if deemed necessary and required by the city.
      6.   Statement of proposed use of the property including the type of
buildings or proposed dwelling units or type of business, to allow evaluation
of the effect of the subdivision on traffic, fire service, and other public
services.
      7.   The application must be signed by all parties with a recorded or
known interest in the affected property or properties.
      8.   For good cause shown, the Zoning Administrator may waive certain
application requirements as not being pertinent to the proposed subdivision,
lot consolidation or lot line adjustment.
   (B)   Staking. The existing and proposed lot corners shall be staked at the
site in a manner so they are visible from the street for review by the city and
shall be maintained throughout the application process.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator may approve or cause to be modified plans for
an administrative subdivision. The Zoning Administrator must first determine,
however, that the plans meet all city ordinances and policies, and that the
proposal would not have an adverse impact on the subject property or
surrounding properties. If the Zoning Administrator makes a negative
determination or the applicant wishes to appeal the decision, the case shall be
sent to the Planning Commission for a recommendation and to the City Council
for action.
   (D)   The city may require an applicant to submit a letter of credit as a
condition of approval of an administrative subdivision to guarantee the proper
repair and patching of streets after the installation of utilities in the
streets or rights-of-way.
   (E)   The city shall not approve more than three new lots from a parcel or
tract in any single calendar year.
   (F)   Prior to certification by the city of the approval of the
administrative subdivision, the applicant shall supply the deed(s) granting to
the city any easements and/or right-of-way required by the city.
   (G)   The applicant shall pay the city the required park dedication fee
prior to recording the appropriate documents.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.039 RECORDING; PROCEDURE AND TIME FRAME.
   (A)   Deadline. The applicant shall record the appropriate documents in the
Office of the County Recorder within 180 days after the date of city approval.
If not recorded within the 180-day period, the city shall consider the approval
void.
   (B)   Copy to city. The applicant shall, immediately upon receipt of the
recorded document from the County Recorder, furnish the City Clerk with a copy
of the document(s) showing evidence of the recording.
   (C)   Building permit. The city shall not issue any grading permits or
building permits for site work for the construction of any structure on any lot
in the subdivision until the city has received evidence of the document(s)
being recorded by the County Recorder and all conditions of approval have been
met.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 153.050 PURPOSE.
   (A)   An application for a preliminary plat shall be filed with the city.
The preliminary plat is a plan of how property will be subdivided and
developed. The preliminary plat stage is when the developer furnishes all
information pertinent to the proposed development for review by city staff,
consultants, city advisory committees, the City Council, any other applicable
agencies, and the public. The information provides a basis for approval or
denial of the application. The information submitted in the application shall
address both existing conditions and changes that will occur during and after
development.
   (B)   Additional information or modifications may be required by
consultants, city staff, city advisory committees, or the City Council. The
city also may request additional information during the review process. In
certain cases, some information required by these standards may not be
appropriate or may need to be modified in order to provide an adequate basis
for making a decision.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.051 FILING AND REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to submitting a preliminary plat
application, the property owner/ applicant shall meet with city staff to
discuss the preliminary plat application process. Through this meeting, the
city staff may summarize the city's preliminary plan review comments and offer
suggestions pertaining to additional information or design changes that may
assist in expediting the preliminary plat review.
   (B)   Neighborhood meeting. On large subdivisions or developments with uses
significantly different from adjacent properties, the city recommends the
property owner/applicant hold a neighborhood meeting for informal comment and
feedback prior to submitting a preliminary plat application. The developer is
responsible for organizing and conducting the meeting. The developer shall give
the city notice of the time, place, and location of the meeting if held.
   (C)   Environmental review. The developer shall determine if the proposed
plat meets or exceeds the mandatory threshold for an environmental assessment
worksheet (EAW) or Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) pursuant to Minnesota
Rules, and if necessary, the developer shall immediately complete those
requirements. The city will not deem a subdivision application complete until
the environmental review process is completed.
   (D)   DNR review. Preliminary plats located within a shoreland district or
floodplain district shall be subject to review by the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources.
   (E)   Transportation and Highway Department review. A preliminary plat
abutting any existing arterial or trunk highway, county road or highway or
county state-aid highway rights-of-way shall be subject to review of the
Minnesota Department of Transportation and/or the County Highway Department.
Written notice and a copy of the proposed preliminary plat shall be filed with
the Minnesota Department of Transportation and/or the County Highway Department
for review and comment.
   (F)   Watershed review. Preliminary plats located within a watershed
district shall be subject to review and comment of the watershed district.
   (G)   Parks and Recreation Commission meeting. The developer shall attend a
Parks and Recreation Commission meeting to review the draft preliminary plat
and make available comments from city staff. The Parks and Recreation
Commission shall decide as to the park needs and/or location. This
determination shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission and City Council
for review and consideration.
   (H)   Advisory committees. The draft preliminary plat also may be reviewed
by additional city advisory committees. The city advisory committee's
recommendations will be forwarded to the Planning Commission and City Council
for their consideration at a public hearing and public meetings.
   (I)   Application and placement on the Planning Commission agenda.
      1.   The city must receive a preliminary plat application form, five
copies of the preliminary plat, two copies of the required accompanying
information and electronic versions of all application materials.
      2.   Upon receipt, the matter will be placed on the next Planning
Commission meeting agenda which is at least 30 days after the date the
application was received. The Community Development Department shall submit
copies of the preliminary plat and required accompanying information to other
staff, committees, consultants, or agencies, as appropriate, who may make
written comments to the Planning Commission. If substantial changes are
required to the preliminary plat, it may be advisable for an applicant to
submit a revised preliminary plat to city staff prior to submitting the
application to the Planning Commission.
   (J)   Incomplete application. The city shall have the authority to request
additional information when considering a subdivision application. The Planning
Commission will not consider a subdivision application if the city deems it
incomplete. The city staff will notify an applicant of the missing information
within 15 days of application submittal. If the requested information is not
received within 60 days of notification, the application will be considered
null and void and will be returned.
   (K)   Planning Commission meeting. The preliminary plat shall be submitted
to the Planning Commission for its review and recommendation. The Planning
Commission shall review and comment on the project's acceptability in relation
to the comprehensive plan, zoning code, official map, and this chapter. The
Planning Commission may make a recommendation about the proposed plat at that
time, or they may table the matter to allow further time for review and
consideration.
      1.   Report. The Community Development Department shall prepare a report
of the findings and recommendations for the Planning Commission. The report may
include specific conditions of approval or findings related to denial of the
plat.
      2.   Public hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on the proposed preliminary plat. Notice of the public hearing shall be
published in the official newspaper designated by the City Council at least ten
days prior to the hearing. The city shall mail written notification of the
public hearing on the proposed preliminary plat to property owners located
within 350 feet of the subject site at least ten days prior to the hearing. The
failure to give mailed notice to individual property owners or defects in the
notice shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to
comply has been made.
      3.   Recommendation. The Planning Commission shall take public testimony
at the public hearing and evaluate the requested preliminary plat against the
premature subdivision criteria of § 153.030, applicable city standards, the
zoning code, the comprehensive plan and other city requirements. The Planning
Commission shall make findings and offer a recommendation for either
preliminary plat approval, modification or denial. The Planning Commission may
offer a recommendation of approval with conditions necessary to satisfy city
regulations.
   (L)   City Council meeting. The Planning Commission's recommendation shall
be conveyed to the City Council. The City Council shall review and comment on
the project's acceptability in relation to the comprehensive plan, zoning code,
official map, and this chapter. The City Council may act on the proposed
preliminary plat at that time, or they may table the matter to allow further
time for revisions, review and consideration.
      1.   City Council action. The City Council shall act on the application
within 120 days following delivery of a complete application in accordance with
the regulations of this chapter, unless an extension is agreed to in writing by
the applicant. The City Council may act on the preliminary plat if it does not
receive a recommendation from the Planning Commission within 60 days of receipt
of a complete application. In approving the preliminary plat, the City Council
may impose conditions it considers necessary to protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
      2.   City Council findings. The City Council shall action on the
application that shall include findings of fact and shall be entered into the
proceedings of the City Council and transmitted to the applicant in writing.
   (M)   Generally. Upon recommendation of the city staff and submittal of an
executed interim development agreement, including all required subdivision fees
and financial securities, the city may, at its discretion, authorize site
grading and land alteration work as a condition of pre-plat approval and
allowable activity prior to final plat approval.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.052 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Number of copies required at the time of application. The developer
shall submit five large scale copies, one reduced scale (11 inches x 17 inches)
copy of the preliminary plat, all required accompanying information in
electronic form to the city.
   (B)   Contents of the preliminary plat and required accompanying
information. The developer shall submit a preliminary plat and required
accompanying information that shall include, but not be limited to, all the
information outlined below:
      1.   Preliminary plat. The preliminary plat shall include the following:
         (a)   A north arrow and scale not greater than one-inch equals 100
feet shall be shown on all maps/drawings;
         (b)   The proposed name of the plat, which name shall not duplicate or
be substantially similar to a plat previously recorded in the county;
         (c)   Date of application, name, address, phone number, and applicable
license or registration number of the owner, developer, agent, applicant,
engineer, surveyor, planner, attorney, or other principal involved in the
development of the plat;
         (d)   Proof of ownership or legal interest in the property in order to
make application;
         (e)   Existing comprehensive plan land use and zoning designation
within and abutting the proposed plat;
         (f)   Any zoning changes needed, or reference to any zoning or similar
land use actions that are pertinent to the proposed development;
         (g)   Total acreage of the land to be subdivided and total upland area
(land above the ordinary high-water mark of existing wetlands, lakes and
rivers);
         (h)   Boundary line survey and legal description;
         (i)   Existing covenants, liens, or encumbrances;
         (j)   Proposed lot lines, dimensions, the gross acreage, and the
acreage net of any wetlands, floodplains, surface waters, and other encumbered
areas of all lots. When lots are located on a curve in a road or cul-de-sac,
the lot width at the building setback line shall be shown. Lot areas shall
consist of buildable land as defined by the zoning code and lots that contain
water bodies, power line or pipeline easements shall show the lot area outside
of the water body/easement;
         (k)   Proposed lot and block numbers;
         (l)   Building pad and minimum building setbacks shown on each lot
indicating dimensions of the setbacks;
         (m)   Layout of streets, showing right-of-way widths, centerline
street grades and approximate radii of all curbs, proposed contours within the
entire plat, and proposed street names for consideration and acceptance by the
city. Access, right-of-way widths, driveways, and street classifications shall
be consistent with the comprehensive plan;
         (n)   Parks, trails, sidewalks or other areas intended for public use
or common ownership;
         (o)   Minimum lot areas, lot widths, and setback dimensions shall be
shown and the minimum lot areas, lot widths, and setback areas shall conform
with the proposed zoning for the site, unless the subdivision is a planned unit
development (PUD);
         (p)   Topography map showing existing topographic contours at two-foot
intervals;
         (q)   All delineated wetlands, flood plain areas, the ordinary high-
water level (OWHL) of Department of Natural Resources (DNR) protected waters,
and any encroachments;
         (r)   Wetland replacement plan shall be provided (if applicable);
         (s)   Tree inventory and preservation plan;
         (t)   Utility easements, drainage easements, wetland easements,
wetland buffers, and shoreland setback requirements, if applicable;
         (u)   Preliminary landscape plans; and
         (v)   Any additional information requested by the Community
Development Department.
      2.   Certificate of survey. A certificate of survey prepared by a
licensed land surveyor must be submitted which identifies the following:
         (a)   Scale not more than one-inch equals 100 feet;
         (b)   North point indication;
         (c)   Existing parcel boundaries to be platted with dimensions and
area;
         (d)   Existing legal description;
         (e)   Easements of record;
         (f)   Delineated wetland boundary, also including the ordinary high
water level (OHWL) of any lakes, rivers, or Department of Natural Resources
(DNR) waters;
         (g)   All encroachments;
         (h)   Existing buildings, structures, and improvements within the
subject property and those 100 feet outside the boundaries of the subject
property; and
         (i)   Location, widths, and names of all existing public streets,
alley and trail rights-of-way or railroad rights-of-way showing type, width,
and condition of the improvements, if any, that pass through and/or are within
100 feet of the subject property.
      3.   Preliminary grading, drainage (storm water) and erosion control
plan. The developer shall submit a preliminary grading, drainage and erosion
control plan utilizing a copy of the current certificate of survey as a base
for the site in question, prepared and signed by a licensed engineer. The
grading plan shall be designed to avoid premature disruption of land and long-
term storage of excess materials. The grading plan shall depict the following
information:
         (a)   A north arrow and scale not greater than one-inch equals 100
feet shall be shown on all maps and drawings;
         (b)   Location of natural features including, but not limited to, tree
lines, delineated wetlands, water courses, ponds, lakes, streams, floodplain,
drainage channels, ordinary high water level (OHWL) and 100-year storm
elevations, bluffs, steep slopes, and the like. If wetlands are proposed to be
impacted, a mitigation plan also shall be submitted;
         (c)   Existing contours at two-foot intervals shown as dashed lines
for the subject property and extending 100 feet beyond the outside boundary of
the proposed plat;
         (d)   Proposed grade elevations at two-foot intervals shown as solid
lines;
         (e)   Proposed plan for surface water management, ponding, drainage
and flood control, including the normal water level and high water level of all
ponds and watercourses;
         (f)   Provision for groundwater management including sub-surface
drains, disposals, ponding, and flood controls;
         (g)   Location of all existing storm sewer facilities including pipes,
manholes, catch basins, ponds, swales, and drainage channels within 100 feet of
the subject property. Existing pipe sizes, grades, rim and invert elevations,
and normal and high water elevations must be included;
         (h)   If the subject property is within or adjacent to a 100-year
floodplain, flood elevation and locations must be shown;
         (i)   Spot elevations at drainage break points and directional arrows
indicating site, swale, and drainage on lots and streets;
         (j)   Lot and block numbers, building style, building pad location and
elevations at the lowest floor and garage slab for each lot;
         (k)   Locations, sizes, grades, rim and invert elevations of all
proposed storm water facilities, including ponds, proposed to serve the subject
property;
         (l)   Phasing of grading;
         (m)   Location and purpose of all oversize, non-typical easements;
         (n)   The soil erosion and sediment control measures to be
incorporated during and after construction. Locations and standard detail
plates for each measure shall be in accordance with city standards and included
on the plan;
         (o)   Soil tests for areas where streets and building pads are
proposed and other soil information as requested by the City Engineer;
         (p)   All re-vegetation measures proposed for the subject property
must be included on the plan, including seed and mulch types and application
rates;
         (q)   Drainage plan, including the configuration of drainage areas and
calculations for two-year, tem-year, and 100-year 24-hour storm events. A 500-
year event may also be required by the City Engineer;
         (r)   Layout of proposed streets showing centerline gradients, section
widths, and typical cross sections; and
         (s)   Date of plan preparation and dates of all revisions.
      4.   Preliminary utility plan. The developer shall submit a preliminary
utility plan utilizing a copy of the current certificate of survey as a base of
the site in question, prepared by a licensed engineer, depicting the following
information:
         (a)   Scale not larger than one-inch equals 100 feet;
         (b)   Location, dimensions, and purpose of all easements;
         (c)   Location and size of existing sanitary sewers, water mains,
culverts, or other underground facilities within the subject property and
within 100 feet beyond the outside boundary of the proposed plat. Data such as
grades, invert elevations, and location of catch basins, manholes, and hydrants
also shall be shown;
         (d)   Location and size of proposed sanitary sewers, water mains,
culverts and other stormwater facilities, or other underground municipal
facilities within the subject project;
         (e)   All other utilities shall be located and designed in accordance
with the requirements of the city engineering standards; and
         (f)   Date of plan preparation and dates of all plan revisions.
      5.   Miscellaneous information. The developer or applicant shall submit
the following plans and information to the city, if applicable:
         (a)   An evaluation by the applicant that the subdivision would not be
determined to be premature pursuant to the criteria outlined by the
comprehensive plan and in this chapter.
         (b)   All preliminary plats that will not be subsequently final
platted or improved in their entirety shall include a phasing plan with the
following information submitted with the preliminary plat:
            i.   The sequence of development and approximate areas, approximate
number of lots or units in each phase, total area and buildable area per phase.
The applicant shall provide the city with information regarding the number of
dwelling units, proposed improvements, and common facilities for each proposed
phase;
            ii.   Any trail, sidewalks, and parks within the approved phase of
the preliminary plat shall be constructed along with streets and utilities and
shall be clearly marked on a site map which will be an attachment to all sales
agreements for individual lots;
            iii.   A site grading plan that is coordinated with the phasing
plan to avoid premature disruption of land or long-term storage of excess
materials;
            iv.   A development agreement that includes a financial security to
ensure completion of common facilities, trails, and landscaping shall be
provided. A master subdivision development agreement that governs subsequent
phases also shall be required; and
            v.   Unless otherwise clearly noted on the phasing plans or stated
in the development agreement, all improvements shown within each phase shall be
constructed and completed with that particular phase.
         (c)   Documents outlining the content of proposed conservation
easements, restrictive covenants, deed restrictions, and establishment of
homeowners' associations for review. Where the plat is intended to include
common open spaces, these documents shall address ownership and long-term
maintenance of these open space areas.
         (d)   Information or easements showing how public utilities, drainage,
and streets can be extended to serve adjacent property.
         (e)   Landscape and screening plans showing landscape plantings for
yards and subdivision entrances, and specifying plant locations, varieties, and
sizes.
         (f)   Plans showing the elevations of signs and the location,
ownership, and maintenance responsibilities of the signs.
         (g)   Examples of building products showing illustrations of building
footprints, floor plans, building elevations, and exterior building materials.
         (h)   Street lighting plans showing proposed location and type of
fixture.
   (C)   Staking. At a minimum, street centerline, parks and trails identified
to be staked by the developer during the preliminary plat process shall be
staked in the field at least 15 days prior to the Planning Commission
preliminary plat public hearing to allow city staff, board and commission
members and the City Council to view the subject site.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.053 RESERVED.
§ 153.054 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   City Council action. The City Council shall act on the preliminary
plat by motion and adoption of a written resolution. The motion shall include
findings of fact supporting the approval or denial and shall be entered into
the written record of the proceedings of the City Council.
   (B)   Premature subdivisions. The City Council shall deny any plat of a
proposed subdivision deemed premature for development.
   (C)   Denial of preliminary plat. The City Council may deny the subdivision
if it makes any one or more of the following findings:
      1.   The proposed subdivision conflicts with adopted applicable general
or specific provisions of the comprehensive plan, zoning code, surface water
management plan, engineering standards, official map of the city, or this
chapter;
      2.   The physical characteristics of the site, including but not limited
to topography, vegetation, percolation rate, soil conditions, susceptibility to
erosion and siltation, susceptibility to flooding, water storage, impacts to
wetlands, drainage and retention, are such that the site is not suitable for
the type of development, design, or use contemplated;
      3.   The site is not physically suitable for the proposed density;
      4.   The design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements are
likely to cause substantial environmental damage;
      5.   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements are likely
to cause serious public health problems;
      6.   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
conflict with easements of record or with easements established by judgment of
a court;
      7.   The proposed subdivision, its site, or its design, adversely affects
the flood-carrying capacity of the floodway, increases flood stages and
velocities, or increases flood hazards within the flood way fringe or within
other areas of the city;
      8.   The applicant has failed to provide all documents required by the
city in order to adequately evaluate the application.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
FINAL PLAT
§ 153.070 PURPOSE.
   After the City Council has approved a preliminary plat, the applicant or
developer shall submit the proposed final plat to the city for review as set
forth in this subchapter. The final plat shall conform to all Minnesota
platting regulations and shall incorporate all changes, modifications, and
revisions required by the city. Otherwise, the proposed final plat shall
strictly conform to the approved preliminary plat.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.071 TIMING OF FINAL PLAT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Final plat approval within one year after City Council approval of the
preliminary plat. The applicant or developer shall submit a complete
application for final plat approval to the city no later than one year after
the date of approval of the preliminary plat, or a time as provided in the
development agreement. If the final plat application is submitted more than one
year after the date of approval of the preliminary plat or after the time
allowed in the development agreement, the preliminary plat approval shall be
considered void, unless the applicant or developer submits a request for a time
an extension to the city in writing and the City Council grants the time
request for good cause.
   (B)   Final plat approval for subsequent phases. The applicant or developer
shall submit complete final plat applications for subsequent phases, as
described by the approved phasing plan, within one year of city approval of the
final plat for the previous phase, or as provided in the development agreement.
The applicant or developer may request in writing a time extension for filing
the final plat application for City Council consideration for approval.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.072 FILING AND REVIEW OF FINAL PLAT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Placement on the City Council agenda.
      1.   The city must receive a final plat application form, electronic
copies of the final plat, the required application fee and required information
and plans.
      2.   Upon receipt of a complete application, the matter will be placed on
the next City Council meeting agenda which is at least 30 days after the date
the complete application was received. The Zoning Administrator shall submit
copies of the final plat and required accompanying information to other staff,
committees, consultants, or agencies as appropriate who may make written
comments about the proposal to the City Council.
      3.   City Council meeting. The final plat, together with the city staff
recommendations, shall be submitted to the City Council for consideration. The
City Council shall review and comment on the final plat to ensure it conforms
to the approved preliminary plat and incorporates any changes, modifications,
and revisions required by the City Council as part of the preliminary plat
approval. A recommendation may be made at that time, or the City Council may
table the matter to allow further time for review and consideration. If
accepted, the final plat shall be conditionally approved by motion and in a
written resolution. The approval shall provide for the acceptance of all
agreements for basic improvements, public dedication, and other requirements as
indicated by the City Council. If disapproved, the grounds for any refusal to
approve a final plat shall be set forth in the written record of the
proceedings of the City Council and reported to the applicant in writing. The
City Council shall act on the final plat within 60 days of receipt of the
completed final plat application.
   (C)   Development agreement. The applicant shall execute a development
agreement with the city that controls the installation of all required
improvements and approval conditions to comply with approved engineering
standards and applicable regulations. The City Council shall approve the
development agreement as a condition of final plat approval and the approved
agreement shall be recorded with the final plat. (Also see § 153.076 (below)
about development agreements).
   (D)   Special assessments.
      1.   When any existing special assessments that have been levied against
the property described are to be divided and allocated to the respective lots
in the proposed plat, the City Clerk shall:
         (a)   Estimate the administrative cost of preparing a revised
assessment roll;
         (b)   File the same with the County Auditor; and
         (c)   Make such division and allocation.
      2.   Upon approval by the City Council of all costs associated with the
development and filing of the assessment roll, the same shall be paid to the
city before final plat approval, or as provided in the development agreement.
   (E)   Title review. The City Attorney shall review and approve the status of
title and ownership of the property. The developer shall provide an abstract of
title, a registered property abstract or a title insurance commitment or policy
dated within 30 days of the execution of the final plat as evidence of
ownership.
   (F)   Street addresses. The developer shall consult with the city regarding
the assignment of addresses. Addresses shall conform to the uniform street
naming and property numbering system for Ramsey County unless otherwise
approved by the city. With submission of the final plat, one 11 x 17 copy of
the plat map showing all addresses correctly labeled shall be supplied to the
city for subsequent distribution to the utility companies, post office, Fire
Department, and local school district.
   (G)   Recording the final plat. If the City Council approves the final plat,
the developer shall record the final plat and, if required, the Development
Agreement, in the Office of the County Recorder within 180 days after the date
of city approval. If the developer does not record the final plat or
development agreement within 180 days after the date of City Council approval,
the approval of the final plat shall be considered void unless the developer
requests the city approve an extension, in writing, and receives approval from
the City Council. The developer shall, immediately upon receipt of the recorded
documents from the County Recorder, furnish the Zoning Administrator with a
print of the final plat showing evidence of the recording. The city shall not
issue any building permits or approvals for improvements, except those
specifically permitted by the development agreement, for construction of any
structure on any lot or other land alteration or construction activities in
said plat until the city has received evidence of the plat and development
agreement being recorded by the County Recorder.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.073 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR FINAL PLAT; FINAL PLANS.
   (A)   Final plan development. The applicant or developer shall submit one
digital and one printed copy of the following documents to the city: a
preliminary plat, a preliminary utility plan, and a preliminary grading and
drainage plan. Utilizing submitted plans as a base of the site in question, the
City Engineer or a licensed engineer, if authorized by the City Manager, shall
develop final plans and project documents for the public infrastructure. The
developer is responsible for the cost of final plan and project document
preparation.
   (B)   Contents of the final plat and required information and plans.
      1.   Preparation. Final plat preparation, prepared for recording
purposes, shall be prepared in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota
Statutes and county regulations, and such final plat or accompanying submittals
shall contain the following information:
         (a)   A large-scale copy and an 11inch x 17 inch copy of the approved
preliminary plat and supporting documents in electronic format illustrating all
changes and conditions that were required as part of preliminary plat approval.
This revised preliminary plat will provide the historical record of the
subdivision approval by which subsequent final plats shall be considered.
         (b)   The name of the proposed subdivision, which name shall not
duplicate or be substantially similar to a plat previously recorded in Ramsey
County. The name of the plat shall be subject to City Council approval. The
first phase of development shall be called the "first addition", subsequent
phases shall be consecutively numbered.
         (c)   Location by section, township, range, county, and state as well
as descriptive boundaries of the subdivision based upon an accurate traverse,
giving angular and linear dimensions.
         (d)   A north arrow and scale not greater than one-inch equals 100
feet shall be shown on all maps/drawings.
         (e)   The location of monuments shall be shown in reference to
existing official monuments on the nearest established street lines, including
true angles and distances to such reference points and monuments.
         (f)   The location of all lots, outlots, streets, public highways,
alleys, parks, and other features, with accurate dimensions in feet and
decimals of feet, with the length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with
all other information necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground. Dimensions
shall be shown from all angle points of curve to lot line.
         (g)   Lots shall be numbered clearly. Blocks are to be numbered, with
numbers shown clearly in the center of the block.
         (h)   The exact location, widths, and names of all streets to be
dedicated.
         (i)   The location and width of all easements to be dedicated.
         (j)   The name, address, and phone number of the surveyor making the
plat.
         (k)   Land dedicated as public park shall be labeled as outlot(s) on
the final plat and the deed for the outlot(s) shall be given to the city with
the final plat.
         (l)   Documents and information necessary to fulfill the conditions of
approval of the preliminary plat.
         (m)   A current abstract of title or a registered property
certificate, at the option of the City Attorney.
         (n)   A commitment for title insurance (not more than 30 days old)
from a title insurance carrier authorized to conduct business in Minnesota.
         (o)   Any title declaration, conservation easements, deed
restrictions, restrictive covenants, homeowner's association documents, or
common interest community documents.
         (p)   Statement dedicating all streets, alleys, other public right-of-
way, and other public areas not previously dedicated, as follows: streets,
alleys, and other public areas shown on this plat not heretofore dedicated to
public use are hereby so dedicated.
         (q)   Statement dedicating all easements as follows: easements for
installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved
over, under, and along the designated areas marked "drainage and utility
easements."
         (r)   Final grading and construction plans shall be prepared and
submitted in accordance with city standards.
         (s)   Copies of permits from the Department of Natural Resources
(DNR), Corp of Engineers, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA), Minnesota
Department of Health (MDH), and other agencies as may be applicable. The
applicant or developer shall obtain all necessary permits prior to city
approval of the final plat.
         (t)   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, and lengths of
all areas.
         (u)   Accurate location of all monuments. Pipes or steel rods shall be
placed at the corners of each lot and at the edge of wetlands.
         (v)   Accurate outlines, legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, or for the exclusive use of property
owners within the subdivision with the purposes indicated therein.
         (w)   Certification by a registered land surveyor, to the effect that
the plat represents a survey made by the surveyor and that monuments and
markers shown thereof exist as located and that all dimensional geodetic
details are correct.
         (x)   Notarized certification by owner, and by any mortgage holder of
record, of the adoption of the plat, and the dedication of streets and other
public areas.
      2.   Certificates required.
         (a)   Certification by a registered land surveyor in the form required
by M.S. § 505.03, as may be amended.
         (b)   The execution of all owners of any interest in the land and
holders of a mortgage thereon of the certificates required by M.S. § 505.03, as
may be amended, and which certificate shall include a dedication of the utility
easements and other public areas in such form as approved by the City Council.
         (c)   Space for certificates of approval and review to be filled in
and signed by the Mayor and the City Clerk. The form of the certificates shall
be approved by the city. A copy of the approved format shall be available at
city hall.
   (C)   Monuments. The outside boundary of the subject property is to be
clearly marked with survey monuments.
   (D)   Development agreement. A copy of the city-approved development
agreement.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.074 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Council action. The City Council shall act on the final plat by
written resolution. The resolution shall include findings of fact supporting
the approval or denial and shall be entered into the written record of the
proceedings of the City Council.
   (B)   The city may agree to review the preliminary plat and final plat
simultaneously.
   (C)   Development agreement. If the City Council moves to approve the final
plat and the development agreement is not yet finalized, the approval shall be
contingent upon the following:
      1.   A completed and fully executed development agreement including all
required financial securities and time frame for final plat and final grading
completion; and
      2.   All fees and charges related to the preliminary or final plat paid
in full.
   (D)   Required approval. The City Council shall certify final approval
within 60 days of an applicant's request for final plat approval if the
applicant has complied with:
      1.   All conditions and requirements of the comprehensive plan, zoning
code, surface water management plan, engineering standards, official map, and
this chapter; and
      2.   All conditions and requirements upon which the preliminary plat
approval was expressly conditioned, either through performance or the execution
of appropriate agreements assuring such performance.
   (E)   Denial of plat. The City Council may deny the subdivision if it makes
any one or more of the following findings:
      1.   The proposed subdivision is in conflict with adopted applicable
general or specific provisions of the comprehensive plan, zoning code, surface
water management plan, engineering standards, official map, or this chapter;
      2.   The final plat does not meet or satisfy all the conditions or
requirements upon which the city approved the preliminary plat, either through
performance or the execution of appropriate agreements assuring such
performance.
      3.   The design of the subdivision does not conform to minimum city
standards; and
      4.   The applicant has failed to provide all documents required by the
city in order to adequately evaluate the application.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.075 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Required public improvements. All improvements required by this
chapter shall be constructed in accordance with city design standards and the
plan requirements of this chapter. Where required, the following improvements
shall be constructed at the expense of the developer:
      1.   Site grading, street grading and surfacing;
      2.   Erosion control and related appurtenances to meet local watershed
district permitting requirements;
      3.   Concrete curbs and gutters;
      4.   Pedestrian sidewalks or trails, if required;
      5.   Sanitary sewer facilities;
      6.   Water distribution facilities;
      7.   Storm water drainage facilities;
      8.   Street signs and pavement markings;
      9.   Streetlights;
      10.   Electric and private utility services and utility relocation if
required;
      11.   Permanent reference monuments and monument boxes;
      12.   Landscaping and screening;
      13.   Site restoration;
      14.   Fog seal and crack seal on public roads on a schedule determined by
the city;
      15.   Other improvements specified by a city-approved PUD; and
      16.   Other public improvements as may be required by the City Council.
   (B)   Utilities.
      1.   Installation. The applicant shall install sanitary sewer, water, and
streets only in the area included in the final plat. The city shall not allow
any construction/installation of sanitary sewer, water facilities or streets
until after the City Council approves final plat and the development agreement,
the applicant or city has recorded the final plat, the development agreement
and all other required documents the applicant or developer has posted all
required financial securities with the city.
      2.   The subdivider shall make adequate provision for connection to the
city water and sanitary sewer services and storm water management. Subdivider
shall provide the city with such information as may be necessary to determine
the adequacy of the facilities proposed to be used for such purposes. The
developer shall construct water lines, sanitary sewer lines or storm sewer
lines, although connection to other lines outside the area may not be possible
immediately where plans for the installation of such lines in the area have
been prepared by the engineer or other competent person and construction of
such a system or utility has already commenced or has been completed in other
areas of the city. The City Council may require that such lines be constructed
or reconstructed outside the area being platted or subdivided where necessary
to properly serve the area being subdivided or platted. Two or more owners,
subdividers or platters may enter into contracts with the city for the
improvement of several subdivisions, parcels or plats at the same time when
such water, sanitary sewer or storm sewer lines would pass through and serve
the several areas concerned and could reasonably be constructed in a single
project.
      3.   The city shall make inspections during the installation of
improvements to ensure conformity with the approved plans and specifications as
contained in the subdivider's contract and city standards and specifications.
The subdivider shall be responsible for all costs incurred by the city for
inspections and material testing to verify the improvements are in conformance
with city standards and specifications. The subdivider shall notify the proper
administrative officials when each phase of the improvement is ready for final
inspection. Upon acceptable completion of installation of the required
improvements, the city shall issue a letter to the subdivider or his or her
agent, and such letter shall be sufficient evidence for the release by the city
of the portion of the surety bond, certified check or cash deposit as
designated in the subdivider's contract for the completed improvement in an
amount at the discretion of the city.
      4.   When the City Engineer, following the inspection of a subdivision,
certifies to the City Council that all improvements have been constructed in
accordance with city specification, the City Council may proceed to accept the
facilities for which the applicant or developer has posted the bond. For
smaller projects, the City Manager or their designee, at their discretion, may
prepare a letter on behalf of the city accepting the new improvements and
facilities.
      5.   Commitment of utility service areas. If the developer is unable to
fulfill the schedule of the approved phasing plan, the City Council may
consider allocating to a different development project the utility service area
that was committed to the next phase of the plat. The subject plat must then
wait until the following year for final plat or utility service area approval
for its next phase.
   (C)   Payment for installation of public improvements. The developer shall
furnish and install the required improvements at the sole expense of the
developer. Further, if any improvement installed within the subdivision will be
of substantial benefit to properties beyond the boundaries of the subdivision,
provision may be made for causing a portion of the cost of the improvement to
be assessed against the benefiting property. The developer will be required to
pay for the portion of the whole cost of the improvement that will represent
the benefit to the property within the subdivision. If other properties other
than those owned by the developer are to be assessed, the city can elect to
construct the required improvements and specially assess the developer and
other benefited properties pursuant to M.S. Ch. 429.
   (D)   Infrastructure design. Public infrastructure and utilities shall be
designed by the City Engineer unless the City Manager approves the design of
such public utilities and infrastructure by a qualified licensed engineer
selected by the developer, in which case the developer shall use a licensed
engineer or engineering firm that meets all the following requirements:
      1.   The engineer or engineering firm shall:
         (a)   Have at least one employee who is a registered professional
civil engineer licensed to work in the State of Minnesota with a minimum of ten
years of experience in municipal infrastructure projects;
         (b)   Employ on a full-time basis, or through the use of subconsultant
(s), one professional civil engineer registered in the State of Minnesota with
a minimum of five years of experience in each of the following project
categories: local roadway systems, sanitary sewer collection systems, water
distribution systems, and storm sewer systems. One professional civil engineer
may be used for all the listed project categories if qualified; and
         (c)   Possess an errors and omission insurance policy with a minimum
of $1,500,000 in liability coverage.
      2.   In such cases the City Engineer shall approve the subdivision
design, plans and specifications before the start of construction.
   (E)   Survey by a registered surveyor. The surveyor must be registered to
work in the state of Minnesota and have a minimum of five years of experience.
The surveyor must possess an errors and omission insurance policy with a
minimum of $100,000 in liability coverage. The registered surveyor is required
for plat work, legal survey, and installation of monuments.
   (F)    The developer shall furnish and construct the improvements at their
sole cost and in accordance with city specifications. When applicable, the
development agreement shall contain language specifying preconstruction
requirements, the content of materials and shop drawings that must be submitted
for review and approval, contractor insurances, bond requirements for
performance and payment, and contract requirements with contractors with
regards to special provisions.
   (G)   The developer also shall be responsible for obtaining all required
permits from all other regulatory entities, including but not limited to the
applicable watershed district, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, the
Minnesota Department of Health and Metropolitan Council. No developer is
permitted to start work on any subdivision without the special approval of the
City Council if the developer has previously defaulted on work.
   (H)   Construction plan design process, required inspection. The preliminary
survey and construction staking outside the right-of-way shall be conducted by
the developer, who is responsible for all costs associated with the activities.
Construction staking of public streets and public utilities shall be conducted
by the developer, unless the City Engineer provides such services at the
developer's expense. The developer also is responsible for the cost of
surveying and all inspections of all public improvements.
      1.   Construction plans for the required improvements conforming in all
respects with the requirements of this chapter shall be prepared at the
developer's expense by the City Engineer or a qualified engineer if authorized
by the City Manager. The City Engineer must approve all public improvement
construction plans, and the project engineer must provide the City Engineer
with an estimate of the total costs of the required improvements for review and
approval by the city as well. Upon approval of the plans by the City Engineer,
the developer or the project engineer must furnish the city with an electronic
copy of the approved plans.
      2.   All required improvements on the site that are to be installed under
the provisions of this chapter must be inspected by the City Engineer or city
representatives designated by the City Engineer during construction at the
developer's expense. Construction not inspected will not be accepted for public
ownership.
      3.   Upon completion of the improvements and prior to public dedication,
the developer is responsible for the cost of quality control and materials
testing as required by the project including but not limited to, compaction
testing, concrete testing, bituminous testing, sand/gravel testing, testing all
developer-installed utilities, and related appurtenances material testing
requirements. Prior to the public dedication of required improvements, the
developer shall submit as-built plans of the public infrastructure to the City
Engineer. The developer shall be responsible for the cost of the preparation of
the as-built plans. The City Engineer shall perform final inspection of the
public improvements and shall review and approve the as-built plans. The
developer or project engineer shall supply the city with electronic versions of
the as-built plans in a form and format acceptable to the City Engineer.
   (I)   Dedication of public improvements. Acceptance of the public
improvements by the city is subject to the City Engineer's acceptance of the
approved plans and project improvements. Upon approval, the developer or
project engineer must provide the city as-built drawings of the public
improvements that are in compliance with city requirements. The developer must
conduct a post-construction survey and submit record drawings and electronic
files verifying all grading, utility installations with location by GPS
coordinates and elevation information.
   (J)   Trunk facilities. Where the city determines larger size water main,
sanitary sewer, storm drain, or similar facilities are required to serve areas
outside the subdivision, the city may require the developer to construct the
larger facility as part of the improvements of the subdivision.
   (K)   Alternate installation and incomplete improvements. The City Council
may elect to install any or all of the required public improvements pursuant to
the development agreement with the developer. The City Council also may elect
to commence assessment proceedings, utilize funds of the financial guaranty, or
otherwise move to finance and install improvements when the improvements are
required in order to provide greater assurance of public health, ensure
reliability of water supply, provide for economy of installation, provide more
effective firefighting through the installation of watermains, hydrants, or
otherwise protect the public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare.
   (L)   The city shall not issue a permit for any building unless the building
is located on a property with direct access to a full-width, improved public
street or highway unless the City Manager or their designee approves otherwise.
Developers and contractors shall design all new buildings with floor and
utility elevations so the city sanitary sewer system can serve the building by
gravity flow, unless the builder or developer has first obtained permission of
the City Council to serve the building with alternative methods to meet the
city and state sanitary sewer requirements. This provision shall be applicable
to building permits the city may issue for any parcel of land, regardless of
when the property was platted or subdivided.
   (M)   Developer guaranty. The developer shall warrant and guarantee the
public improvements against any defect in materials or workmanship for a period
of two years following completion and acceptance by the city. The developer
shall provide the city a warranty bond or other security in a form and format
acceptable to the City Attorney in an amount equal to the construction value of
the public improvements. The developer is responsible for the cost of warranty
inspections. In the event of the discovery of any defect in materials or
workmanship within the two-year period, the developer shall promptly repair or
correct the defect, and the city shall extend the warranty and guarantee for
the entire project for one additional year beyond the original two-year period.
The City Engineer shall identify defects in material or workmanship for
correction by the developer or the developer's agents during the two-year
period.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.076 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Development agreement.
      1.   City approval of the final plat shall be contingent upon the
applicant or developer entering into a development agreement with the city. The
agreement shall be prepared by the city and shall ensure development
performance based on city approvals and to ensure the installation of all
required improvements comply with approved engineering standards and applicable
regulations. The agreement shall address, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Financial securities;
         (b)   Warranties;
         (c)   Development time lines; and
         (d)   Remedies for default.
      2.   The developer shall provide an estimate of the project construction
cost for review and approval by the City Engineer, and shall address, but is
not limited to:
         (a)   Financial securities;
         (b)   Warranties;
         (c)   Development time lines;
         (d)   Remedies for default;
         (e)   Iron monuments;
         (f)   Improvements and required public infrastructure;
         (g)   City administration and construction observation;
         (h)   Permits;
         (i)   Erosion and sediment control;
         (j)   Maintenance;
         (k)   Park dedication; and
         (l)   Sewer and water trunk utility charges.
      3.   The developer shall meet with city staff and the City Attorney to
finalize the terms of the development agreement.
      4.   Prior to the installation of any required improvements and prior to
approval of the final plat, the developer must enter into a development
agreement meeting all city requirements. The developer shall install such
public improvements at the developer's sole expense unless the City Council
otherwise approves, in writing, having the city construct such improvements at
the cost of the developer. When applicable, the development agreement shall
contain language specifying preconstruction requirements, the content of
materials and shop drawings that must be submitted for review and approval,
contractor insurances, bond requirements for performance and payment, and
contract requirements with contractors with regards to EJCDC/special
provisions.
      5.   The City Council shall approve the development agreement as a
condition of final plat approval and the approved agreement shall be recorded
with the final plat.
      6.   Upon the finalization of the development agreement, the City
Attorney shall have the final copy of the agreement signed by all appropriate
parties. The approved development agreement shall be recorded against the
property with the final plat.
      7.   Financial securities shall be posted with the city as outlined in
the development agreement.
      8.   Final project plans for all improvements shall be approved by the
City Engineer and made a part of the development agreement.
         (a)   The city shall not allow any grading or land alteration
activities until the preliminary plat has been approved, an interim development
agreement has been executed, and the required financial securities are posted
with the city.
         (b)   No construction/installation of sanitary sewer or water
utilities or streets shall be allowed until approval of a final plat and final
development agreement, and the required financial securities are posted with
the city.
   (B)   Financial guaranty.
      1.   The developer shall furnish to the city an irrevocable letter of
credit ("financial guaranty") equal to 125% of the total estimated cost of the
public improvements. The financial guaranty shall be for the exclusive use and
benefit of the city and, if in the form of a letter of credit, shall state
thereon that the same is issued to guarantee and assure performance by the
developer of all the terms and conditions of the required development agreement
and construction of the required public improvements in accordance with the
ordinances and specifications of the city. The city shall be entitled to
reimburse itself out of the deposit for any cost and expense incurred by the
city for completion of the work in case of default of the developer under the
contract, and for any damages sustained on account of any breach thereof. Upon
completion of the work and termination of any liability, the balance remaining
in the deposit shall be refunded to the developer.
      2.   Concurrently with furnishing to the city the irrevocable letter of
credit to ensure the construction of public improvements, the developer shall
furnish to the city a cash escrow to be held by the city as partial security
for the payment of inspection, administrative, legal, public works department,
and engineering costs (collectively, the "city costs") incurred by the city
during the development review process prior to the public dedication of public
improvements and during the warranty period of the improvements. The city
reserves the right to draw, in whole or in part, on any portion of the cash
deposit to recover city costs related to the project. In the event the escrow
is depleted, the developer agrees to post additional sums of money to replenish
the escrow and to cover projected city costs. Upon completion of the work and
termination of any liability, the balance remaining in the escrow shall be
refunded to the developer.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.077 RECORDING.
   (A)   Copies. After approval of the final plat by the City Council, the
developer shall submit three full size mylar copies and three full size paper
copies of the final plat, and one 11 inch x 17 inch reduction of the final plat
and dedication page to city hall for signature.
   (B)   Procedure and time frame.
      1.   Deadline. The developer shall record the approved final plat and
development agreement in the Office of the Ramsey County Recorder within 180
days after the date of city approval. If not recorded within 180 days after the
date of approval, the approval of the final plat shall be considered void
unless the developer requests an extension, in writing, and receives approval
from the City Council.
      2.   Copy to the city. The developer shall, immediately upon receipt of
the recorded document from the County Recorder, furnish the City Clerk with a
print of the final plat showing evidence of the recording.
      3.   Building permit. The city shall not issue any building permits for
the construction of any structure on any lot in the plat until the city has
received evidence of the final plat and, if required, the development agreement
being recorded by the County Recorder unless exceptions have been formally
established by the development agreement.
      4.   The city shall not issue any building permits for construction on
any lot in the subdivision unless the lot is located on a street or highway
giving access thereto that the city has approved and made a part of the street
plan. All such buildings shall conform to the building line established upon
the street or proposed street where it is to be located. If the developer is
installing streets to provide access to lots within the subdivision pursuant to
a development agreement, the city shall not issue any building permits for
construction on any lot in the subdivision until the planned streets are
constructed and accepted by the city, except that the city may issue building
permits after preliminary acceptance of street improvements pending
installation of a final, post-construction wear course of pavement.
   (C)   Transportation departments. When the land for which the final plat
abuts a state highway, county road, or county highway, a certificate or other
evidence showing submission of the preliminary plat to the Minnesota Department
of Transportation and/or Ramsey County Highway Department shall be filed with
the Office of the Ramsey County Recorder, with the final plat.
   (D)   DNR. When the land included in the final plat is located within a
shoreland district or floodplain district, the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources (DNR) shall be notified of the disposition of the final plat as
required by law.
   (E)   Recording final plats of multi-phased plats. Unless otherwise provided
in the development agreement or otherwise approved by the City Council, the
developer must complete the final plat a preliminary plat that will be final
platted in phases into lots and blocks, not outlots, within five years after
the City Council approved the preliminary plat. Any phase of the preliminary
plat that is not final platted within the five-year period shall be void.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.078 DEDICATION.
   The developer shall dedicate to the city outlots within the final plat
designated for parks, drainage, wetland and utility areas, or other public
areas.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.079 RECORD PLANS (AS-BUILT PLANS).
   The design engineer shall complete record plans of the subdivision within 90
days of the installation of the first layer of bituminous on the public
streets. Record plans shall include an as-built grading plan and shall be
approved by the City Engineer. The design engineer shall submit three full size
printed copies and an electronic copy of the record plans to the city after
final approval by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
PARK LAND DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.090 LAND DEDICATION OR CASH CONTRIBUTION.
   (A)   Authority.
      1.   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 2(b), the city has authority to
require a reasonable portion of the buildable land of any proposed subdivision
be dedicated to the public or preserved for public use, including parks,
recreational facilities, playgrounds, trails, wetlands and public open space.
The value and attractiveness of residential and commercial/industrial
developments to landowners, developers, purchasers, employers, and employees is
significantly enhanced by the presence of such parks and open space amenities.
      2.   In the alternative, the city may choose to accept a cash fee for
some or all of the value of the dedication. The City Council shall decide the
form of the contribution (cash or land or any combination thereof) based upon
need and conformance with approved city plans.
   (B)   Purpose.
      1.   The city recognizes the preservation and creation of parks,
recreational facilities, playgrounds, trails, wetlands, and public open space
is essential to maintaining a healthful, safe and desirable community. The city
must not only provide these necessary facilities for the citizens of today, but
also for the future needs of the city as described in the comprehensive plan.
      2.   The city recognizes the demand for parks, recreational facilities,
playgrounds, trails, and public open space within the city is directly related
to the density and intensity of development permitted and allowed within any
area. Greater housing densities mean greater numbers of people and higher
demands for public amenities.
   (C)   Basis. The city shall conduct an individualized determination of the
amount of land needed for the purposes set forth in this chapter and shall
demonstrate an essential nexus between the land dedication or cash fee, and the
purpose sought to be achieved. The dedication or fee shall bear a rough
proportionality to the need created by the proposed subdivision.
   (D)   Property being replatted with the same number of lots and same number
of dwelling units shall be exempt from additional park land dedication
requirements. If the replat increases the number of lots and/or number of
dwelling units, or if land outside the previously recorded plat is added, then
the city will base the parkland dedication on the additional dwelling units
being added.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.091 DEDICATION OF LAND.
   (A)   Proposed public uses. Where a proposed park, playground or other
recreational areas, proposed school site or other public ground that has been
indicated in the official map and/or comprehensive plan is located in whole or
in part within a proposed subdivision, such proposed public site shall be
designated as such in the subdivision and should be dedicated to the city,
school district or other proper governmental unit.
   (B)   The amount of land to be dedicated under this subchapter will
generally follow the schedules below, however the total amount required for
dedication may increase or decrease based on the city's basis analysis pursuant
to § 152.091(C). The city alone shall determine the location and configuration
of any land dedicated, taking into consideration the suitability of the land
for its intended purpose and the city's needs for a park, playground, trail, or
public open space. All land dedication determinations shall be based on the net
area of the property. The net area of the property shall be the gross area of
the property minus the area of wetlands, ponding areas, drainageways, lakes and
streams below the ordinary high-water mark. The land dedicated for public use
shall be in addition to property dedicated for public streets, alleys,
easements, storm water ponding or other public ways.
   (C)   Residential property.
 
Units Per Acre Estimated Percentage of Net Area
1-6            10%
7 or more      10% plus 1% for each additional dwelling unit over 6 units per
               acre
 
   (D)   Non-residential property. An estimated 5% of the net area of the
development site shall be dedicated for public park or open space.
   (E)   Mixed use property. Land contributions shall generally follow the
percentages above and shall be based on the amount of land and number of units
designated to residential use and the amount of land designated to non-
residential uses.
   (F)   These formulas establish the presumptive requirements for land
dedication for public purposes. The applicant may submit evidence to the city
that the proposed development will create less need for public dedication,
which the city shall consider in reaching an individualized determination of
the final dedication requirement.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.092 CASH CONTRIBUTION.
   At the City Council's sole discretion, the city may accept a cash
contribution in whole or in part for the required land dedication under this
chapter. The park land dedication fee guidelines shall be determined by the
City Council on an individualized basis pursuant to City Code § 153.091(C) and
M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 2b(c). The amounts included in the city's fee schedule in
the city code are for use as a general guideline.
   (A)   Mixed use developments. Cash contributions shall be based on the
amount of land and number of units designated to residential use and the amount
of land designated to non-residential uses.
   (B)   Timing of payment. Developers shall pay the city the required cash
contributions prior to the city releasing the final plat for recording and
before the city issues the first building permit in the subdivision.
   (C)   Use of payments. The city shall place cash payments received under
this section in a special fund to be used only for the acquisition and
development or improvement of parks, recreational facilities, playgrounds,
trails, wetlands or public open space based on the city's approved park systems
plan and the comprehensive plan. Cash payments cannot be used for ongoing
operation or maintenance.
   (D)   Determining the amount of a cash contribution or combination cash and
land contribution. In the event the contribution is cash or a combination of
cash and land, the city will first determine the total land dedication required
pursuant to the basis analysis described in § 153.090 and then convert that
total land dedication to its fair market value pursuant to M.S. § 462.358,
Subd. 2b(c). Such fair market value shall be based upon land dedication
requirement multiplied by the average cost per acre by zoning district as
established, from time to time, by the City Council. The subdivider may submit
evidence to the city that the average cost per acre by zoning district is not a
reasonable estimate of the value of the land being subdivided, or that the
specific development requires. The city shall consider this evidence in
reaching an individualized final determination of the total dedication
required. Once the city has determined the total conversion from land to cash,
the fair market value of the land actually dedicated, if any, shall be
subtracted and the remainder shall be the amount due in cash.
   (E)   Trails and sidewalks. The developer or property owner shall be
required to construct trails and sidewalks on the property to be developed in a
manner determined by the city and in accordance with the city's comprehensive
pedestrian, bike and trails map. The city, at its sole discretion, may choose
to collect a cash-in-lieu fee for these improvements and complete them at a
time that coordinates with other public improvements.
   (F)   Transfer or conveyance of property. Prior to the dedication, the
developer or property owner shall deliver to the city a title insurance policy
in favor of the city. The dedicated land shall be conveyed by warranty deed.
Such title shall vest in the city good and marketable title, free and clear of
mortgages, liens, encumbrances, assessments or taxes. The conveyance documents
shall be in a form acceptable to the city. Developer or property owner shall
execute all documents necessary to convey the property and record the warranty
deed.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.093 DISPUTES AND APPEALS.
   Nexus requirement and appeals: as required by law, the city intends the
dedication formulas established in this section to reflect an essential nexus
between the fees or dedication imposed and the city purpose sought to be
achieved by the fee or dedication, and to bear a rough proportionality to the
need created by the proposed subdivision or development. The city shall provide
an applicant an opportunity to present evidence that the city's dedication
requirements lack sufficient nexus or proportionality to their specific project
before the city makes a final determination of the dedication or fees imposed.
Failure to object before the final dedication amount is set in the final plat
approval or development agreement shall waive the applicant's ability to
challenge nexus or proportionality thereafter.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 154.110 LOT SPLITS FOR TWO FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   If the conditions of this section are met, a lot or lots occupied by a
two-family, side-by-side dwelling, or such a dwelling is to be constructed, may
be split along the party wall to allow for individual ownership of each unit.
   (B)   All the following conditions must be met before a lot split described
in divisiom (A) of this section may be approved:
      1.   A survey shall be submitted to the city showing lot dimensions, the
location of the building in relation to all lot lines and the location of the
party wall in relation to all lot lines;
      2.   If split, the two lots shall be substantially equal in size and
dimensions;
      3.   The structure must meet current building code standards for firewall
separation. This may be added to an existing unit.
      4.   The two-family dwelling and lot must conform to all minimum
requirements of the city code and state laws;
      5.   Separate utility services must be provided to each unit;
      6.   Deed restrictions, subject to approval by the City Manager or the
City Attorney, shall be recorded with the deed(s) and shall contain at least
the following provisions:
         (a)   The structure shall always have a uniform exterior appearance in
terms of color, design and maintenance;
         (b)   In case of damage, the dwelling shall either be restored to its
original condition or be removed;
         (c)   A provision for quick resolution of all disputes;
         (d)   The city shall be considered a third-party beneficiary to the
deed restrictions and may enforce the same;
         (e)   All breaches of the deed restrictions shall be considered
nuisances, as that term is used in M.S. § 429.021, as it may be amended from
time to time, and all costs incurred by the city to enforce the deed
restrictions shall be assessable to the offending party or parties as provided
for by state law;
      7.   Such other conditions as the City Manager or City Attorney deems
necessary to assure compatibility with surrounding structures or to assure a
reasonable division of property.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.111 SPECIAL SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS IN MIXED-USE ZONING DISTRICTS.
   This chapter applies to the mixed-use zoning districts unless specified
differently below:
   (A)   Blocks. Maximum block length of 600 feet.
   (B)   Right-of-way width. The width of the public street right-of-ways shall
be determined by the City Engineer or the Public Works Director with final
approval by the City Council.
   (C)   Road pavement widths. The width of the street pavements shall be
determined by the City Engineer or the Public Works Director with final
approval by the City Council.
   (D)   Alleys. Interconnected streets and alleys are strongly encouraged
within the mixed-use zoning districts.
   (E)   Alley right-of-way and pavement widths. All pavement widths must be
adequate for vehicle passing, vehicle loading and unloading and storage of
snow. The width of alley rights-of-way and pavement shall be determined by the
City Engineer or the Public Works Director with final approval by the City
Council.
   (F)   Cul-de-sac. The city prohibits cul-de-sac streets within the mixed-use
zoning districts.
   (G)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks and/or trails are required on both sides of
streets or roads.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.120 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Sale of lots from unrecorded plats. It shall be a misdemeanor to sell,
trade, or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of land as part of, or in
conformity with, any plan, plat or replat of any subdivision or area located
within the jurisdiction of the city, unless the plan, plat or replat shall have
first been recorded in the Office of the County Recorder.
   (B)   Receiving or recording unapproved plats. It shall be unlawful for a
private individual to receive or record in any public office any plans, plats
of land laid out in building lots and streets, alleys, or other portions of the
same intended to be dedicated to public or private use, or for the use of
purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto, and located
within the jurisdiction of this chapter, unless the same shall bear thereon, by
endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   Misrepresentations. It shall be a misdemeanor for any person owning an
addition or subdivision of land within the city to represent that any
improvement upon any of the streets, alleys, or avenues of said addition or
subdivision or any sewer in the addition or subdivision has been constructed
according to the plans and specifications approved by the City Council, or has
been supervised or inspected by the city, when such improvement has not been so
constructed, supervised or inspected.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.121 APPLICATION TO CITY PERSONNEL.
   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any official
duty imposed by this chapter shall not subject the officer or employee to a
penalty imposed for violation unless a penalty is specifically provided for
such failure.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.122 INJUNCTION.
   In the event of a violation or the threatened violation of any provision of
this chapter, or any provision or condition of a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter, the city, in addition to other remedies, may institute appropriate
actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate such violation
or threatened violation.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction may be punished as set forth in the
city code. Each day during which compliance is delayed, or such violation
continues or occurs shall constitute a separate offense and may be prosecuted
as such.
(Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.001   Intent and purpose
   
154.002   Introductory provisions
   
154.003   Definitions
   
154.004   Administration
   
154.005   Zoning districts and provisions
   
154.006   Residential zones
   
154.007   Mixed-use districts
   
154.008   Overlay districts
   
154.009   Nonconformities
   
154.010   General regulations
   
154.011   Reserved
   
154.012   Violations and misdemeanors
   
Appendix A:   Tables
   
Appendix B:   Figures
§ 154.001 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter divides the city into zoning districts, establishes minimum
requirements to achieve its intent and purpose, and establishes regulations
which control the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration and use of
structures and land. The intent and purpose of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of the city;
   (B)   Promote land uses and development patterns that are consistent with
the implementation of goals, policies and plans established in the city's
Comprehensive Plan and officially adopted plans and overlays;
   (C)   Preserve the overall quality of life for residents and visitors;
   (D)   Promote the most appropriate phased and orderly growth and development
of land for residential, commercial, industrial, recreational, and public
areas;
   (E)   Provide adequate light, air, open space and convenience of access to
property;
   (F)   Prevent or limit congestion in the public right-of-way;
   (G)   Promote pedestrian, bicycle and transit use as well as provide for
off-street parking and loading areas;
   (H)   Foster a strong and balanced tax base for the economic vitality of the
city;
   (I)   Protect, stabilize, and enhance the value of land, buildings and
structures throughout the city;
   (J)   Protect and preserve the natural environment and resources of the city
including environmentally sensitive areas, wetlands and shorelands;
   (K)   Protect against fire, natural hazards, flooding, contamination and
other dangers;
   (L)   Encourage the protection, conservation, restoration and enhancement of
historic resources in the city;
   (M)   Encourage energy conservation through the use of renewable and
alternative energy systems;
   (N)   Enhance the aesthetic desirability of the city through the design and
appearance of buildings, compatible land uses, and design and development
standards in relation to surrounding properties;
   (O)   Require developments to have adequate provisions for city water, city
public sanitary sewer, and other public services;
   (P)   Encourage reinvestment in the city's established residential
neighborhoods while protecting their character and creating a sense of place;
   (Q)   Maintain a variety and range of housing and commercial building
options to satisfy the city's social and economic goals;
   (R)   Define the powers and duties of the administrative officers and
bodies, as provided hereinafter; and
   (S)   Provide effective administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 739, passed 8-18-2015; Am. Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 154.002 INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as
the "North St. Paul Zoning Ordinance;" when referred to herein, it shall be
known as "this chapter."
   (B)   Application.
      1.   Interpretation. The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be
the minimum requirements for the promotion and protection of the public health,
safety, morals, and general welfare.
      2.   Scope. When any condition imposed by any provision of this chapter
is either more restrictive or less restrictive than similar conditions imposed
by any provision of any other applicable law, City Code provision, statute,
resolution or regulation of any kind, the more restrictive one which imposes
higher standards or requirements shall prevail. This chapter is not intended to
repeal any easements, restrictions, or covenants relating to the use of land or
imposed on lands within the community by private declaration or agreement.
      3.   Conformity. Except as specifically provided for herein, no structure
or land shall be used for, nor shall any structure be constructed, converted,
enlarged, reconstructed or altered in any manner for any purpose which is not
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. Any existing building or
structure and any existing use of properties not in conformity with the
regulations may be continued, extended or changed, subject to the special
regulations herein provided with respect to nonconforming properties or uses.
   (C)   Rules.
      1.   For the purpose of this chapter, words used in the present tense
shall include the future; words in the singular shall include the plural, and
the plural the singular; the word "building" shall include the word "structure"
the word "lot" shall include the word "plot" and the word "shall" is mandatory
and not discretionary.
      2.   All measured distances shall be to the nearest tenth of a foot.
      3.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this chapter, its meaning shall be as set forth in such definition.
      4.   A use which is not allowed or authorized by this chapter is
prohibited.
   (D)   Zoning coordination. Any zoning district classification change to land
adjacent to or across a public right-of-way from an adjoining county or
community shall be referred to that county/community's governing unit for
review and comment prior to final action by the City Council. A period of at
least ten days shall be provided for receipt of comments; such comments shall
be considered as advisory only.
   (E)   Zoning and the Comprehensive Plan. The North St. Paul Comprehensive
Plan establishes the goals, objectives and strategies that serve as a basis for
this zoning code. All regulations or amendments adopted pursuant to this
chapter shall be generally consistent with the Comprehensive Plan as adopted
and revised or updated. The Comprehensive Plan will be modified and updated
from time to time based on the requirements of state statutes and the rules of
the Metropolitan Council. A plan amendment may be initiated by the City
Council, the Planning Commission or upon application of a property owner. The
process for application, review, and amendment shall be consistent with state
law and with policy adopted by the city.
   (F)   Repeal of conflicting ordinances. All ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict with this zoning ordinance, or inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter, are hereby repealed to the extent necessary to give
this chapter full force and effect.
   (G)   Validity. Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any other
section.
(Ord. 739, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 154.003 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
stated. All measured distances expressed in feet shall be to the nearest tenth
of a foot. In the event of conflicting provisions in this chapter, the more
restrictive shall apply. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ABUT/ABUTTING. Contiguous; having a common boundary, wall, or property line.
   ACCESS. The place, means or way by which pedestrians or vehicles have
ingress or egress to a property or parking area.
   ACCESSORY, STRUCTURE. See 'Building or Structure, Accessory'.
   ACCESSORY USE. See 'Use, Accessory'.
   ADAPTIVE REUSE. Rehabilitation or renovation of existing building(s) or
structures for any use(s) other than the present use(s).
   ADDITION. A part added to a building either by constructing so as to form
one architectural whole, or by joining, as by a passage, so that each is a
necessary adjunct of the other or so that they constitute the same building.
   ADULT DAY CARE. A program operating less than 24 hours per day that provides
functionally impaired adults with an individualized and coordinated set of
services including health services, social services, and nutritional services
that are directed at maintaining or improving the participants' capabilities
for self-care.
   ADULT USES. Any of the activities and businesses described below constitute
ADULT USES which are subject to the regulations of this chapter.
      (1)   ADULT BOOK AND MEDIA STORE. An establishment having a substantial
portion of its stock in trade or stock on display (15% or more) consisting of
books, magazines, films, videotape or other media of which are characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      (2)   ADULT THEATER. An enclosed building with a capacity for seating 50
or more persons used regularly and routinely for presenting live entertainment
or motion pictures, including but not limited to films and videotapes, having
as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas."
      (3)   ADULT MINI THEATER.
         (a)   An enclosed building with a capacity for seating less than 50
persons used for presenting motion pictures, including but not limited to film
and videotape, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
         (b)   Any business or building which presents motion pictures,
including films and videotapes, having as a dominant theme material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas,"
for viewing on the premises, including but not limited to private booths, peep
booths, viewing by means of coin operated or other mechanical devices and the
viewing of excerpts of motion pictures offered for sale or rent.
      (4)   ADULT STORES. An enclosed building where more than 30% of the floor
area devoted to display and sales of merchandise consist of materials,
paraphernalia and games which are intended to be used in conjunction with or
that describe "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
         (a)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES means any of the following:
            1.   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
            2.   Acts or explicit representations of acts or actual or
simulated human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy, bestiality, oral
copulation or flagellation;
            3.   Fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breast;
            4.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any
activities set forth above.
         (b)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS are any of the following:
            1.   Human genitals, pubic region or pubic hair; buttock and female
breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola, which are less
than completely and opaquely covered; and
            2.   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
opaquely covered.
      (5)   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state
of nudity or displays "specified anatomical area" is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculpted, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
      (6)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
         (a)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
         (b)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
      (7)   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
      (8)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
         (a)   Persons who appear seminude or in a state of nudity; or
         (b)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, compact disks,
computer software, digital recordings or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (9)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion between an employee of the
establishment and a customer, if such service is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (10)   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR. A massage parlor which excludes minors by
reason of age, or which provides, for any form of consideration, the rubbing,
stroking, kneading, tapping, or rolling of the body, if the service provided by
the massage parlor is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (11)   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment
in which at least one of the following occurs:
         (a)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of
consideration; provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions,
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign
visible from the public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this
adult type of photographic reproductions; or
         (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is
less than ten hours or an hourly basis; or
         (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub rent the
room for a period of time that is less than ten hours or an hourly basis.
      (12)   ADULT SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or
which provides, for any form of consideration, a steam bath or heated bathing
room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxing, or reducing, utilizing steam or
hot air as a cleaning, relaxing, or reducing agent, if the service provided by
the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (13)   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes,
offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary
business purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING. Housing for which the occupant(s) is/are paying no more
than 30% of his or her income for gross housing costs, including utilities.
   ALLEY. See 'Street-Alley'.
   ALTERATION. Any construction or renovation to an existing structure other
than repair or addition that requires a permit. Also, a change in a mechanical
system that involves an extension, addition or change to the arrangement, type
or purpose of the original installation that requires a permit.
   ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEMS.  
      ACCESSORY. A system designed as a secondary use to existing buildings or
facilities, wherein the power generated is used primarily for on- site
consumption.
      ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEM.  A source of energy such as geothermal, wind
or solar alternative to more traditionally fossil fuels or combustible energy
producers.
      BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of the building, including but not limited to, photovoltaic or hot
water solar systems contained within roofing materials, windows, skylights and
awnings.
      CLOSED LOOP GROUND SOURCE GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM. A system that circulates a
heat transfer fluid, through pipes or coils buried beneath the land surface or
anchored to the bottom in a body of water whereby the temperature of the
surrounding earth or water is transferred to the structure at the ground
surface.
      GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM. A system that uses the relatively constant temperature
of the stored energy of the earth or a body of water to provide heating in the
winter and cooling in the summer. System components include open or closed
loops of pipe, coils or plates; a fluid that absorbs and transfers heat; and a
heat pump unit that processes heat for use or disperses heat for cooling; and
an air distribution system. Also called a ground source heat pump system.
      HEAT TRANSFER FLUID. A non-toxic and food grade fluid such as potable
water, aqueous solutions of propylene glycol not to exceed 20% by weight or
aqueous solutions of potassium acetate not to exceed 20% by weight.
      HORIZONTAL AXIS WIND TURBINE. A wind turbine design in which the rotor
shaft is parallel to the ground and the blades are perpendicular to the ground.
      HORIZONTAL GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM.  A closed loop ground source heat pump
system where the loops or coils are installed horizontally in a trench or
series of trenches no more than 20 feet below the land surface.
      HUB. The center of a wind generator rotor, which holds the blades in
place and attaches to the shaft.
      HUB HEIGHT. The distance measured from natural grade to the center of the
turbine hub.
      HYDRONIC HEATING SYSTEM. A combustible energy system (not an alternative
energy under this section) which uses water to move heat from where it is
produced, typically via a wood fired furnace located exterior to the building
being heated. Heat is distributed via water piped in an enclosed pipe system to
and released into a space by a heat emitter. Also called an outdoor wood
boiler.
      MONOPOLE TOWER. A tower constructed of tapered tubes that fit together
symmetrically and are stacked one section on top of another and bolted to a
concrete foundation without support cables.
      OPEN LOOP GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM. A system that uses ground water as a heat
transfer fluid by drawing ground water from a well whereby the temperature of
the surrounding earth or water is transferred to a heat pump and then
discharging the water over land, directly into a water body or into an
injection well.
      PASSIVE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A system that captures solar light or heat
for use without transforming it first to another form of energy or transferring
that energy via a heat exchanger.
      PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. A solar energy system that converts solar energy
directly into electricity.
      SMALL WIND TURBINE. A wind turbine of 100 kW generating capacity or less.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A device or structural design feature, a substantial
purpose of which is to provide daylight for interior lighting or provide for
the collection, storage and distribution of solar energy for space heating or
cooling, electricity generation or water heating.
      TOTAL HEIGHT, WIND TURBINE. The highest point above natural grade reached
by a rotor tip or any other part of a wind turbine.
      TOWER. A vertical structure that supports an alternative energy system.
      UTILITY WIND TURBINE. A wind turbine of more than 100 kW nameplate
generating capacity.
      VERTICAL AXIS WIND TURBINE. A type of wind turbine where the main rotor
shaft runs vertically.
      VERTICAL GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM. A closed loop ground source heat pump system
where the loops or coils are installed vertically in one or more borings below
the land surface.
      WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. An electrical generating facility that consists of a
wind turbine, feeder line(s), associated controls and may include a tower.
      WIND TURBINE. Any piece of electrical generating equipment that converts
the kinetic energy of blowing wind into electrical energy through the use of
airfoils or similar devices to capture the wind.
   ANIMAL BOARDING FACILITY. Any lot or premises on which dogs, cats, and/or
other household pets are kept, boarded, or raised for sale or adoption. Also
known as 'Animal Day Care', 'Animal Kennel', or 'Animal Shelter.'
   ANIMAL GROOMING. An establishment, public or private, where animals are
bathed, clipped, or combed for the purpose of enhancing their aesthetic value
or health and for which a fee is charged.
   ANIMAL OR VETERINARY HOSPITAL OR CLINIC. An establishment for the routine
examination, medical, or surgical treatment and care of domestic animals,
generally with overnight boarding facilities for animals in care.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designated,
built, rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied, or which is occupied
as the home or residence of three or more families living independently of each
other and doing their own cooking in the building, and shall include buildings
containing three or more flats or apartments.
   APPLICANT. Any person who wishes to obtain a building permit, zoning, or
subdivision approval, or a permit to allow land-distributing activities.
APPLICANT also means that person's agents, employees, and other acting under
this person's direction.
   ARCADE. A continuous, covered passageway parallel and open to a street,
private or public open space, or building, and typically accessible and open to
the public.
   ARTISAN STUDIO or MAKERSPACE. An establishment where hand tools, mechanical
tools and electronic tools are shared or individually used for the manufacture
of artisan finished products or parts including design, processing,
fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of products; as well as the
incidental storage, sales and distribution of such products. Typical artisan
manufacturing uses include, but are not limited to: electronic goods, food and
bakery products; non-alcoholic beverages; printmaking; household appliances;
leather products; jewelry and clothing/apparel; metal work; furniture; glass or
ceramic production; paper manufacturing.
   ASSESSED VALUE. The value of real property as established by the county
assessor.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY AND/OR MEMORY CARE FACILITY. A facility registered
with the Minnesota Department of Health (DOH) where individualized home care
aide services or home management services are provided to residents either by
the management or by providers under contract with the management.
   ATTIC. The unfinished space between the ceiling joists of the top story and
the roof rafters.
   AUTOMOBILE SALES OR RENTAL. Storage and display for sale of more than two
motor vehicles or any type of trailer provided the trailer is unoccupied, and
where repair or body work is incidental to the operation of the new or used
vehicle sales. Motor vehicles sales includes motor vehicle retail, rental, or
wholesale sales.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE OR REPAIR. General repair, rebuilding, or reconditioning
of engines, motor vehicles, or trailers, including body work, framework,
welding, and major painting service.
   AWNING. An architectural projection that provides weather protection,
identity or decoration and is wholly supported by the building to which it is
attached. An awning is comprised of a lightweight, rigid skeleton structure
over which a covering is attached. (See
FIGURE 1)
   BALCONY. A platform area projecting from the exterior of a building,
enclosed by a railing, accessible from above grade and not attached to the
ground.
   BANK or FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. A financial institution, with or without a
drive-up window, for the custody, loan, or exchange of money; for the extension
of credit; and for facilitating the transmission of funds. Does not include
currency exchanges as defined by M.S. § 53A.01, Subd. 1.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the "regional flood." The term "base
flood elevation" is used in the flood insurance survey.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial facility usually with a
private residence therein, providing housing and feeding of transients.
   BERM. A mound of earth with elevation generally above the surrounding area.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets,
shorelines, waterways or boundary lines of the corporate limits of the city.
   BLOCK, FRONT. The distance between intersections along one side of a street.
(see
FIGURE 2)
   BOARD OF APPEALS AND ADJUSTMENT. A board established by the city to hear and
decide appeals regarding zoning and having powers set forth in M.S § 462.357
and M.S § 462.359. The Planning Commission shall serve as the Board of Appeals
and Adjustment.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A lodging house wherein meals are served to tenants.
   BODY ART. The practice of physical body adornment using, but not limited to,
tattooing and body piercing. BODY ART does not include practices and procedures
that are performed by a licensed medical or dental professional if the
procedure is within the professional's scope of practice.
   BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT. A place or premise, permanent in nature and
location, where body art, whether or not for profit, is performed.
   BREWERY, MICRO-BREWERY, MICRO-DISTILLERY, MICRO-WINERY, or TAP ROOM. A small
scaled on or off-sale liquor business, located in a building where the primary
use is for restaurant, retail, or tasting room, and which specializes in
producing limited quantities of wine, beer, or other alcoholic beverages.
   BROWNFIELD. With certain legal exclusions and additions, the term
"brownfield site" means real property, the expansion, redevelopment, or reuse
of which may be complicated by the presence or potential
presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant.
   BUFFER. The use of land, such as: topography (difference in elevation),
space, fences or landscape plantings, to screen or partially screen a use of
property from another use or property, and thus reduce undesirable effects such
as: sight, light, noise, dust and other nuisances. (see
FIGURE 3)
   BUILD-TO-LINE. A line to which the front wall of a building is to be
constructed. The build-to-line runs parallel to the front lot line and is
established to create an even building façade line along a street. (see
FIGURE 4)
   BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining on a parcel after the minimum setback,
drainage provisions, ponding, compensatory storage, soils, open space and other
site constraint requirements and building restriction lines of this chapter
have been met.
   BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any structure for the shelter, housing support or
enclosure for persons, animals, or property of any kind which is permanently
affixed to the ground. When a building is separated by party walls without
openings, each portion of such building so separated shall be deemed a separate
building.
      BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY. A structure detached from a principal
structure, incidental and subordinate to the principal structure or use,
including, but not limited to garages and storage sheds. (see
FIGURE 5)
      BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, CONFORMING. Designates a structure which satisfies
all applicable requirements of this chapter as amended.
      BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, DETACHED. A building that is not connected to
another building.
      BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, NON-CONFORMING. See 'Non-Conforming- Building or
Structure'.
      BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL. A building in which a principal use is
located.
   BUILDING CODE. Minnesota Rules, Chapter 1305, Minnesota Building Code.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. The amount of land covered by building area, usually
measured in terms of lot percentage.
   BUILDING FAÇADE. Any side of a building facing a public way or space and
finished accordingly.
   BUILDING FACE. That portion of the exterior wall of a structure which shall
lie in a vertical plane. One face shall be terminated by an exterior angle of
at least 210 degrees formed by two exterior walls, each being at least 18 feet
in length or a curved portion of such exterior wall which shall have a central
angle of 30 degrees or more.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The facade of a building most nearly parallel to an
abutting public right-of-way which affords principal access.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average grade of a building
line to: the cornice of a flat roof, the deck of a mansard roof, the uppermost
point on a round or other arch-type roof or the mean distance of the highest
gable on a pitched or hip roof.
   BUILDING LINE. The line established by law, beyond which a building shall
not extend, except as specifically provided by law. (see
FIGURE 6)
   BUILDING LINE, SHORELAND. A line measured across the width of a lot where
the main structure is placed in accordance with setback provisions from the
ordinary high-water mark.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The municipal building code administrative authority
certified under M.S. § 16B.65, Subd. 2 and 3.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit required from the responsible governmental agency
before any site
work, construction, or alteration to any structures can be started.
   BUILDING PLAN. A dimensioned plan drawn to scale which includes the general
use and layout of each floor of a building including projections such as
canopies, stacks, chimneys, and exterior equipment, if any.
   BUILDING SERVICE EQUIPMENT. Refers to the plumbing, mechanical, electrical,
and elevator equipment, including piping, wiring, fixtures, and other
accessories, that provides sanitation, lighting, heating, ventilation, cooling,
refrigeration, firefighting, and transportation facilities essential to the
occupancy of the building or structure for its designated use and occupancy.
   BUILT ENVIRONMENT. The sum of the parts of a community's physical
surroundings formed and shaped by human activity, including: buildings,
structures, landscaping, earth mounds, roads, signs, trails, and utilities.
   BULK STORAGE (LIQUID). Bulk storage of flammable or combustible liquids or
gases for use in industrial processes.
   BUSINESS SALES OR SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in rendering
services to other business establishments on a fee or contract basis, such as
advertising and mailing; building maintenance; personnel and employment
services; management and consulting services; protective services; equipment
rental and leasing; photo finishing; copying and printing; travel; office
supply; and similar services.
   CALIPER. A tree trunk diameter measured four and one-half feet from the
ground on trees more than 12 inches in diameter. On trees more than four inches
and up to 12 inches in diameter, caliper is measured 12 inches from the ground.
On trees four inches or less in diameter, caliper is measured six inches from
the ground.
   CANNABIS-RELATED.
      (1)   Unless otherwise defined, cannabis-related terms have the
definition given them in M.S. § 342.01, as amended.
      (2)   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESS. Any cannabis business making retail sales
of cannabis or cannabis products to individual customers, including any
cannabis retailer, cannabis microbusiness with a retail endorsement, cannabis
mezzobusiness with a retail endorsement, medical cannabis retailer, or medical
cannabis combination business.
      (3)   CANNABIS INDUSTRY BUSINESS. Any cannabis business involved in
exclusively non-retail operations, including cannabis cultivation,
transportation, wholesaling, manufacturing, or testing. CANNABIS INDUSTRY
BUSINESS includes both adult use and medical cannabis businesses.
   CANOPY. Any structure, movable or stationary, which is attached to,
supported by and projected from the entrance of a building, designed and
intended for protection from the elements or as a decorative embellishment.
(see
FIGURE 7)
   CAR WASH. An establishment where the principal use includes washing, drying,
polishing, or vacuuming of an automobile or other motor vehicle done by service
personnel, the driver, or by automated machinery.
   CARPORT. An automobile shelter enclosed on not more than two sides. A
carport is not a garage. (see
FIGURE 8)
   CATERING. A facility in which the principal use is the preparation of food
and meals on the premises, and where such food and meals are delivered to
another location for consumption.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partially or wholly underground and
having less than three and one-half feet of its floor to ceiling height above
grade. A CELLAR is not counted as a story for the purpose of height and setback
regulations.
   CEMETERY. Any non-publicly owned parcel of land designed, intended to be
used, or used for the burial of deceased persons or animals. For purposes of
this code, a burial lot and columbarium shall be included in the definition of
cemetery.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. Official certification that a premises conforms to
provisions of this title and other applicable ordinances and may be used or
occupied. A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY is granted upon completion of new
construction or completion of alterations or additions to existing structures.
   CHANGE OF USE. Any alteration in the primary use of a lot for zoning
purposes.
   CHAPTER. When used without clarification means a chapter of the North St.
Paul Zoning Code.
   CHILD. A person who has not reached age 18.
   CITY. The City of North St. Paul, Minnesota.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of North St. Paul, Minnesota.
   CLINIC. An establishment principally engaged in providing therapeutic,
preventative, corrective, healing and health-building treatment services on an
outpatient basis by physicians, dentists and other practitioners with no
overnight boarding. Includes doctor's offices, dental clinics, medical
laboratories, and physical and occupational, and massage therapy facility,
chiropractic care.
   CLUB OR LODGE. An establishment in which a limited group of people are
organized to pursue common social or fraternal goals, interests, or activities,
and usually characterized by certain membership restrictions, payment of fees
or dues, regular meetings and a constitution or bylaws.
   COFFEE SHOP/TEA HOUSE. An establishment engaged principally in the sale of
coffee, tea, and other non-alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises
or for carry out, which may also include the sale of a limited number of food
items.
   COLUMBARIUM. A structure or building substantially exposed above ground
intended to be used for the interment of the cremated remains of a deceased
person or animal.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. An area of land, water or combination thereof planned for
active or passive recreation which is an integral part of a development and is
not owned on an individual basis by each owner of the dwelling unit. COMMON
OPEN SPACE does not include areas utilized for streets, alleys, driveways or
private roads, off-street parking or loading areas, or required yards. The area
of recreational activities such as swimming pools, tennis courts, shuffleboard
courts, etc., may be included as common open space.
   COMMUNICATION STRUCTURE. A structure that is intended to support equipment
used to transmit or receive telecommunications signals. Examples of such towers
include monopoles and lattice steel structures.
   COMMUNITY GARDEN. Any parcel of land, utilizing either individual or shared
lots on private or public land. The land may produce fruit, vegetables, and/or
ornamentals.
   COMPENSATOR STORAGE. Excavated volume of material below the floodplain
elevation required to offset floodplain fill.
   COMPOST FACILITY. A structure or premises designed, intended to be used, or
used for the processing, creation, and open air storage of compost for
subsequent sale or distribution. Compost means the mixture of decaying organic
ingredients and conditioners for use as fertilizer. A location containing pre-
packaged compost or open air compost for use exclusively on the same parcel
shall not be considered a compost facility.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A compilation of policy statements, goals, standards,
and maps, and action programs for guiding the future development of private and
public property. The term includes a plan designating types of uses for the
entire municipality as well as a specialized plan showing specific areas or
specific types of land uses, such as residential, commercial, industrial,
public or semipublic uses or any combination of such uses. A land use plan may
also include the proposed densities for development.
   CONDITIONAL USE. See 'Use, Conditional'.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Disturbance to the land resulting in a change in
topography, existing  soil cover (both vegetative and non-vegetative), or the
existing soil topography resulting in accelerated storm water runoff, leading
to soil erosion and movement of sediment into receiving waters or the city
municipal separate storm sewer system. Construction activity includes a land
disturbance activity greater than or equal to 10,000 square feet.
   CONTRACTOR'S BUSINESS WITH SHOWROOM OR WORKSHOP. An establishment providing
general contracting, building/site maintenance, or building construction
services. Outdoor storage of equipment and materials shall be consistent with
the requirements of this chapter.
   CONTROL MEASURE. A practice or combination of practices to control erosion
and attendant pollution.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A store which sells any one or a combination of the
following: groceries, pharmaceuticals, bakery goods, dairy products, hardware,
and variety store items.
   CONVENTIONAL ENERGY SYSTEM. Any energy system, including supply elements,
furnaces, burners, tanks, boilers, related controls and energy-distribution
components, which uses any source of energy other than solar or windmills.
These sources include but are not limited to gas, oil, coal, and nuclear
materials.
   COOPERATIVE. Real estate owned by an association, each of whose members is
entitled to a proprietary lease in a unit located on the real estate by virtue
of the member's ownership interest in the association.
   COUNTY. Ramsey County, Minnesota.
   COURT. An open, uncovered space bounded on three or more sides by exterior
building walls or other enclosing devices.
   CULTURAL CENTER. A use providing for display, performance, or enjoyment of
heritage, history, or the arts. This use includes but is not limited to:
museums, arts performance venues, cultural centers, or interpretive sites, but
does not include commercially operated theatres.
   CURB LEVEL. The grade elevation established by the city of the curb in front
of the center of a building. Where no curb level has been established, the
engineering staff shall determine a curb level or its equivalent.
   DAYCARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human Services
to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child's own home for
gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A facility which provides one of the following services:
Care of a child outside the child's own home for gain or otherwise, on a
regular basis for any part of a 24-hour day; or care for adults offering a
program less than 24 hours per day  that provides functionally impaired adults
with an individualized and coordinated set of services including health
services, social services, and nutritional services.
   DAY NURSERY. A use, licensed by the state where care is provided for pay for
three or more children under kindergarten age for periods of more than three
but less than 24 hours per day.
   DECIBEL (dBA). The usual unit for measuring the relative loudness of sound.
   DECK. A structure which is either freestanding or attached to a principal or
accessory structure, constructed at grade or above grade, intended or designed
for use as outdoor living space and unenclosed by solid or non-solid walls or a
roof. (see
FIGURE 9)
   DENSITY. A unit of measurement of the number of dwelling units per acre of
land derived by dividing the total number of dwelling units within the
particular project, development or subdivision by the total number of acres
contained in such development or subdivision excluding all dedicated public
streets therein.
   DEPENDENCY LIVING ARRANGEMENT. A living arrangement which permits a person
with a physical or mental disability to live in a temporary separate living
area within a single-family dwelling unit or permits a relative or paid
attendant of a person with such a disability to live in a temporary separate
living area within a single-family dwelling unit. Such living area may include
a separate bath and separate kitchen facilities which permit a degree of
independence. Ingress and egress for such a living area is from within the
principal dwelling unit.
   DEPTH OF REAR YARD. The mean horizontal distance between the rear line of
the building and the nearest right-of-way line of an alley, where an alley
exists; otherwise a rear lot line. (see
FIGURE 10)
   DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. Standards and controls that establish the
maximum size of structures and the buildable area within which structures may
be located, including height, floor area ratio, gross floor area, lot coverage
and yard requirements, but excluding residential density regulation.
   DESIGN REVIEW COMMISSION. An advisory committee established by the City
Council to review design guidelines and standards to determine if such plans
are consistent with design manuals and provisions of this chapter.
   DETENTION BASIN. A facility designed to temporarily store runoff from
rainfall or snow melt, releasing the stored water at a controlled rate until
the basin is empty. The outlet or control structure is located at the bottom of
the facility so that the basin is dry after the runoff event.
   DETENTION FACILITY. A permanent natural or man-made structure, including
wetlands, for the temporary storage of runoff which contains a permanent pool
of water.
   DEVELOPER. A person, firm, corporation, sole proprietorship, partnership,
state agency or political subdivision thereof engaged in a land disturbance
activity.
   DEVELOPMENT. The construction of any public improvement project,
infrastructure, structure, street, or road, or the subdivision of land.
   DISABILITY/HANDICAP. With respect to an individual person, a verifiable
physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of such
person's major life activities and is expected to be long continued and of
indefinite duration.
   DISTRICT. A section or zone of the city for which the regulation governing
the land and building uses, lot area, height of structures and similar
provisions are the same under the provisions of this chapter.
   DORMER. A projection build out from a sloping roof, usually housing a
vertical window or ventilating louver.
   DRIVE/DRIVEWAY. A permanent, durable surface designed to provide vehicular
access from a street to a lot or to provide vehicular access between different
parts of a lot or parking area. A drive that is internal to a parking area is
not the same as an aisle. For a detached home, duplex or townhome, the DRIVEWAY
may serve as part of the front yard parking space subject to setback
requirements.
   DRIVE-IN OR SELF-SERVICE BUSINESS. A facility which accommodates automobiles
and from which the occupants of the automobiles may make purchases or transact
business, including the stacking spaces in which automobiles wait.
   DRY CLEANING ESTABLISHMENT. A use involving the cleaning or dyeing of
fabrics with the use of mechanical appliances.
   DWELLING. A building or one or more portions thereof occupied or intended to
be occupied exclusively for residence purposes, but not including rooms in
motels, hotels, nursing homes, boarding houses, nor trailers, tents, cabins,
trailer coaches, or houseboats.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A dwelling unit which is joined to another dwelling or
building at one or more sides by a party wall or walls.
   DWELLING, COTTAGE. A single-family or two-family dwelling that does not
exceed 1,000 total square feet and is a part of a joint development with other
cottage dwellings.
   DWELLING, LIVE/WORK UNIT. A dwelling unit combining residential use types
with commercial- or limited industrial-use types. This use classification
includes but is not limited to: office, live/work facilities, or other similar
uses.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE FAMILY. A building, or portion thereof, on one lot,
containing three or more dwelling units.(see
FIGURE 11)
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A residence structure that is free-standing
(detached) and designed for or occupied by one family only. (see
FIGURE 12 )
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A one-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of
two or more similar one-family dwelling units, each with a private entrance
that has direct access to the outside, which is part of a structure whose
dwelling units are attached and arranged either horizontally or vertically.
When arranged horizontally, they may span more than one parcel.
   DWELLING, TWO FAMILY. A residence structure located on a single parcel
containing two dwelling units that each have separate housekeeping and cooking
facilities, each of which has direct access to the outside. (see
FIGURE 13)
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooling and sanitation.
   DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY (ADU). Also known as a "granny flat," "mother-in-
law apartment" or "carriage house" - is a self-contained living unit that can
be located within the walls of an existing or newly constructed home, or that
can be an addition to an existing home. It can also be a freestanding structure
on the same lot as the main house or located within/attached to a detached
garage.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the owner of land to the general public or to others
for a specific use of the land.
   EDUCATIONAL SERVICES. A business, professional, or other specialty school.
This term includes, but is not limited to, a school offering instruction in
music, art, dance, martial arts, computer use or programming, and cosmetology.
   ELECTRONIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE OR GAME. A mechanical or electronic amusement
device or machine which, upon the insertion of a coin, token or slug, operates
or may be operated or used for a game, contest or amusement of any description
and which contains no payoff in money, coins, checks or merchandise other than
a free game(s) at the same machine. Said item includes pinball machines;
miniature pool tables; bowling machines; shuffle-boards; electric rifle or gun
games; miniature mechanical or electrical games patterned after baseball,
football, basketball, hockey, soccer or similar games; electric work and test
games; and electric video games of sports, words or aptitude used solely for
amusement and not as gambling devices. This term does not include jukeboxes,
food vending machines or children's amusement devices.
   ENERGY DISSIPATION. Methods employed at pipe outlets or along pipe
alignments to prevent erosion including, but not limited to: concrete aprons,
riprap, collars, splashguards, and gabions.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer of the City of North St. Paul.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   EROSION. Any process that wears away the surface of the land by the action
of water, wind, ice or gravity. Erosion can be accelerated by the activities of
man and nature.
   EROSION CONTROL. Methods employed to prevent erosion. Examples include soil
stabilization  practices, horizontal slope grading, temporary or permanent
cover, and construction phasing.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Overhead or underground electric, gas, steam or water
distribution systems and structures for collection, communication, supply or
disposal systems and structures used by public utilities or governmental
departments or commissions or as are required for the protection of the public
health, safety or general welfare, including towers, poles, wires, mains,
drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fiber alarm boxes, police call boxes
and accessories in connection therewith but not including buildings.
   EXCAVATION. The mechanical removal of earth material.
   EXTERIOR STORAGE. The storage, including open storage, of goods, materials,
equipment, manufactured products, and similar items not fully enclosed by a
building.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, adoption, or marriage,
including foster children and household servants, living and cooking together
as a single housekeeping unit; a number of persons, but not exceeding three,
living together as a single housekeeping unit though not related by blood,
adoption or marriage; or a number of persons, including no more than two
adults, living together as a single housekeeping unit where the minor household
members are the natural, adoptive or foster children of one of the household
members.
   FAMILY DAY CARE. See 'Day Nursery'.
   FARM FENCE. A fence as defined by M.S. § 344.02, Subd. 1(a)-(d). An open
type fence of posts and wire is not considered to be a structure under this
chapter. Fences that have the potential to obstruct flood flows, such as chain
link fences and rigid walls, are regulated as structures under this chapter.
   FARMERS' MARKET. As defined by M.S. § 28A.151, Subd. 1.
   FEEDER LINE. Any power line that carries electrical power from one or more
wind turbines or individual transformers associated with individual  wind
turbines to the point of interconnection with the electric power grid, in the
case of interconnection with the high voltage transmission systems the point of
interconnection shall be the substation serving the wind energy conversion
system.
   FENCE. Any partition, structure, wall or gate erected as a divider, marker,
barrier, or enclosure.
   FENESTRATION. Skylights, roof windows, vertical windows (whether fixed or
moveable); opaque doors; glazed doors; glass block; and combination opaque/
glazed doors.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FINISHED LIVABLE FLOOR AREA. The floor area of all rooms which can be used
for living, eating, sleeping, and recreation including bathrooms, closets and
stairways serving such rooms. Measurements can be made from the exterior wall
line and interior walls of qualifying rooms may be included. Finished means the
area has electrical, lighting, ventilation, heating and surfacing composed of
finished materials.
   FLOOD. A general or temporary conditions of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain outside of the floodway. Flood
fringe is synonymous with the term "floodway fringe" used in the Flood
Insurance Study for Ramsey County, Minnesota (all jurisdictions).
   FLOOD PLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see "Flood").
   FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining flood plain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   FLOOR AREA. The total square footage of each floor of a building measured
from the exterior faces of the exterior walls.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR). The numerical value obtained by dividing the total
square footage of a building or buildings by the total lot or parcel area of
the site. (see
FIGURE 14)
   FLOOR PLAN. A graphic representation of the anticipated utilization of the
floor area within a building or structure but not necessarily as detailed as
construction plans.
   FOOD AND BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENT. A building, structure, enclosure, or any
part of a building, structure or enclosure used as, maintained as, advertised
as, or held out to be an operation that prepares, serves, or otherwise provides
food or beverages, or both, for human consumption.
   FUNERAL HOME. A building used for the preparation of the deceased for burial
and display of the deceased and rituals connected therewith before burial or
cremation. For purposes of this code, a FUNERAL HOME may not include a
crematory but may include a columbarium.
   GABLE. The triangular upper portion of an end wall under a peaked roof.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of the principal
building, including a carport, which is used primarily for storing passenger
vehicles, trailers or one truck of a rated capacity not in excess of one and
one-half tons under the control of and used by the occupants of the principal
building on the site.
   GARDEN MATERIALS SALES. A place of business where retail and wholesale
products and produce are sold to the consumer. These centers, which may include
a nursery and/or greenhouses, import most of the items sold, and may include
plants, plant nursery products and stock, potting soil, hardware, power
equipment and machinery, hoes, rakes, shovels, and other garden and farm
variety tools and utensils.
   GOLF COURSE. A tract of land laid out with at least nine holes for playing a
game of golf and improved with tees, greens, fairways, and hazards. A GOLF
COURSE includes a clubhouse and shelters as accessory uses.
   GRADE, FINISHED. The finished ground level adjoining the building at all
exterior walls.
   GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION). The lowest point of elevation of the
finished ground, paving, or sidewalk surface between the building and the
property line or between the building and a line five feet from the building
when the property line is more than five feet from the building.
   GRADE, NATURAL. The grade of a site before it is modified by moving earth,
adding or removing fill, or installing a berm, retaining wall or other
earthwork feature. Natural grade is determined by reference to a survey, or
other information as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   GRADE, PLANE. A reference plane representing the average of a finished
ground level adjoining the building at exterior walls. Where the finished
ground level slopes away from the exterior walls, the reference plane shall be
established by the lowest points within the area between the building and the
lot line or, where the lot line is more than six feet from the building,
between the building and a point six feet from the building.
   GREENHOUSE. A structure that is constructed primarily of glass, glass-like
or translucent material which is devoted to the protection or cultivation of
food or ornamental crops.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA (GFA). Total gross floor area including exterior building
walls of all floors of a building or structure. Also referred to as 'gross
square feet,' or GSF.
   GROCERY. Stores where most of the floor area is devoted to the sale of food
products for home preparation and consumption, which typically also offer other
home care and personal care products, and which are substantially larger and
carry a broader range of merchandise than convenience stores.
   GROSS LEASABLE AREA (GLA). The portion of GFA that is available for leasing
to a tenant.
   GROUND FLOOR/FIRST FLOOR. The lowest floor of a building having its floor to
ceiling height at or above the grade.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The lot area covered by a building or buildings measured
from the exterior faces of exterior walls but excluding decks and terraces and
detached garages which do not exceed 12 feet in height.
   GROUND FLOOR-AREA RATIO. The numerical value obtained through dividing the
gross ground floor area of a building by the net area of the lot or parcel of
land on which such building is located.
   GROUNDCOVER. Grass or other spreading plant material used to define and
cover the ground surface, less than 12 inches tall.
   GROUP FAMILY DAY CARE. Day care for no more than 14 children at any one
time.
   GROUP HOME. See 'State Licensed Residential Facility'.
   HEIGHT. The vertical distance of a structure measured from the average
elevation of the finished grade lying 15 feet from the structure to: the
highest point of the roof or parapet, for flat roofs; or, the mid-point between
the eaves and the ridge, for sloped roofs.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE (as defined in the Code of Federal Regulations 59.1) are:
      1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district;
      3)   Individually listed on a State Historic Preservation Offices state
inventory of historic places;
      4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places of the
City of North St. Paul under a program overseen by the City Heritage
Preservation Commission.
   HOLDING POND. An area designed or accepted by the City Engineer and approved
by the city to retain water to control the flow of storm water.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation, profession, activity, or use conducted by
the owner, renter or occupant of a residential property for financial gain or
profits on or from the residential property that is clearly incidental and
secondary to the residential use of the dwelling, not including a yard or
garage sale.
   HOSPICE. A facility providing a caring environment for supplying the
physical and emotional needs of the terminally ill.
   HOSPITAL. An establishment where patients are admitted for medical,
surgical, or psychiatric treatment for outpatient and/or inpatient, overnight
accommodation.
   HOT TUB. A tub or small pool, usually made of wood or fiberglass, in which
heated water is maintained for recreational or therapeutic activities,
including, but not limited to Jacuzzis, whirlpools and spas.
   HOTEL. An establishment containing rooming units providing temporary lodging
accommodations to the general public, with rooms having access to the outside
through an interior hallway connected to the main lobby of the building, and
which may provide additional services such as restaurants, meeting rooms,
entertainment, and recreational facilities. A hotel shall not include any use
which could be defined as a motel.
   HYDRIC SOILS. Soils that are saturated, flooded or ponded long enough during
the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part.
   HYDROPHYTIC VEGETATION. Macrophytic plant life growing in water, soil or on
a substrate that is at least periodically deficient in oxygen as a result of
excessive water content.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A constructed hard surface that either prevents or
retards the entry of water into the soil, and causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than existed
prior to development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways,
parking lots, storage areas, and concrete, asphalt, or gravel roads.
   INFILTRATION AREA. A stormwater retention method for the purpose of reducing
the volume of stormwater runoff by transmitting a flow of water into the ground
through the earth's surface.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. The system of public works for a county, state, or
municipality including, but not limited to, structures, roads, bridges,
culverts, sidewalks; stormwater management facilities, conveyance systems and
pipes; pump stations, sanitary sewers and interceptors, hydraulic structures,
permanent erosion control and stream bank protection measures, water lines, gas
lines, electrical lines and associated facilities, and phone lines and
supporting facilities.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which has not been moved for three
months, or does not have current license plates on it, or which cannot be
safely driven without repair.
   INSTITUTION. A use conducted by, or a facility or structure owned or
operated by, a nonprofit, religious, or charitable institution that provides
educational, cultural, recreational, religious, or other similar types of
public services.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row or block.
   INTERIM USE. A temporary use of property until a particular date, until the
occurrence of a particular event, or until zoning regulations no longer permits
it.
   L10. The sound level, expressed in dBA, which is exceeded 10% of the time
for a one hour survey, as measured by test procedures approved by the Director
of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   L50. The sound level, expressed in dBA, which is exceeded 50% of the time
for a one hour survey, as measured by test procedures approved by the Director
of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   LAB, RESEARCH. A building or group of buildings in which are located
facilities for technological or scientific research, investigation, testing, or
experimentation, but not facilities for the manufacture or sale of products,
except as incidental to the main purpose of the laboratory.
   LAND DISTURBING OR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES. Any change of the land surface
including removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, grading, stockpiling
soil, and the construction of any structure that may cause or contribute to
erosion, or the movement of sediment into water bodies. The use of land for new
and continuing agricultural activities shall not constitute a land disturbing
activity under this chapter.
   LANDLOCKED BASIN. A basin that does not have a natural outlet at or below
the existing flood elevation as determined using the simplified hydrologic
yield method or other acceptable hydrologic analysis method identified in the
Comprehensive Surface Water Management Plan, adopted August of 2006, as
amended.
   LANDSCAPE PLAN. A component of a development and/or site plan on which
required information is shown in order for authorized review bodies to make an
informed decision to approve or deny the submission.
   LANDSCAPING. An expanse of scenery including lawns, plants, trees, and other
natural materials, such as rock, stone, wood chips; and decorative features,
including fountains, sculptures, walks, and water features.
   LAUNDROMAT. A facility where patrons wash or dry clothing or other fabrics
in machines operated by the patron and/or a business that provides washing,
drying and ironing for hire by an employee of the facility. Does not include
dry cleaning of clothing or other fabrics onsite.
   LEAST SUSCEPTIBLE WETLAND TYPE. A wetland characterized as a gravel pit,
cultivated hydric soil, dredged material or fill, or material disposal site.
   LIMITED PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING. Small-scale assembly, disassembly,
fabrication, manufacture, cleaning, servicing, packaging, sorting or other
handling of goods or materials, either as an intermediate input for further
production or processing, or for final sale, use or consumption.
   LIQUOR STORE. An establishment that sells alcoholic beverages for off-
premises consumption.
   LOADING SPACE. That portion of a lot or plot designed to serve the purpose
of loading or unloading all types of vehicles.
   LODGING HOUSE. Any dwelling other than a hotel or motel where lodgings are
provided for compensation for one or more persons, not to exceed eight,
pursuant to previous arrangements for definite periods of time.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by plat,
subdivision or as otherwise permitted by law.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by front, rear and side lot
lines, excluding any public ways.
   LOT AREA PER UNIT. The number obtained by dividing the lot area by the
number of dwelling units on or proposed for the property.
   LOT, CONFORMING. A lot or parcel legally existing on the effective date of
this chapter which meets the minimum lot width and lot area requirements of
this chapter.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
continuous street, the interior angle of which does not exceed 135 degrees.
(see
FIGURE 15)
   LOT COVERAGE. The amount of impervious surface on a lot.
   LOT, DEPTH. The distance from the front line to the rear lot line. In the
case of a lot of irregular shape, the mean depth shall be the lot depth.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE/LOT, THROUGH. A lot other than a corner lot which has
a property line abutting on one street and an opposite property line abutting
on another nonintersecting street. (see
FIGURE 15)
   LOT, FLAG. Any lot having less frontage on a public way than is typical for
the block in which the lot is proposed and is configured such that a narrow
access corridor extends from the point of frontage to a larger portion of the
lot (the "rear lot").
   LOT FRONTAGE. The length of the property line of any one premises along an
abutting public right-of-way.
   LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot other than a corner, through or flag lot. (see
FIGURE 15)
   LOT LINE. A line of record bounding a lot that divides one lot from another
lot or from a public or private street or alley or any other public space.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public or private street. In the case of a lot with more than one street
frontage, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be determined by the following
circumstances:
      (1)   The shortest dimension on a public or private street;
      (2)   If the primary entrance of the principal structure is located
facing a frontage other the shortest dimension on a public or private street,
the FRONT LOT LINE may be designated by the Zoning Administrator;
      (3)   If the dimensions of a lot with more than one street frontage are
equal, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be designated by the Zoning Administrator.
   LOT LINE, REAR. That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line.
If the rear lot line is less than ten feet in length, or if the lot forms a
point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be a line ten feet in length within
the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
   LOT LINE, ZERO. The reduction to zero of a side yard setback requirement
permitting the placement of a structure near or adjacent to the side yard lot
line; however, no portion of the structure or accessory appurtenance shall
project over the lot line.
   LOT, NONCONFORMING. See 'Nonconforming - Lot'.
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described, as of the effective date of this chapter, or approved by the city as
a lot subsequent to such date, and which is occupied by or intended for
occupancy by one principal use, together with any accessory buildings or the
open spaces as required by this chapter and having its principal frontage on a
street, or a proposed street approved by the Council.
   LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot, the rear of which abuts the side of
another lot.
   LOT WIDTH. The maximum horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a
lot measured within the first 30 feet of lot depth.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building's lowest floor.
   MAJOR WATERSHED. One of the 87 major watershed units delineated by the map
titled State of Minnesota Watershed Boundaries, 1979, produced by the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources as included in the Wetland Conservation Act
Rules 8420.0549.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, not affixed to or part of real estate,
transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode, is eight
body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected
on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis
and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation
when connected to the  required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating,
air conditioning, and electrical systems contained in it. The term
"manufactured home" does not include the term "recreational vehicle."
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. One or more contiguous parcels of land under a
single management which have been designed and developed in such a manner as to
provide individual manufactured home sites for two or more manufactured homes
and includes any building, structures, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or
intended for use as part of the equipment of the manufactured home park as
defined in M.S. § 327.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SITE. An area of land within a manufactured home park that
is designed and developed in such a manner as to provide a location for one
manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME STAND. That portion of a manufactured home site that is
designed, constructed, and improved in such a manner as to provide a base upon
which a manufactured home shall rest, and which also serves as a base upon
which blocks or other materials are placed to assist in leveling the floor of
the manufactured home and provide a temporary type of foundation.
   MARQUEE. A permanent roofed structure attached to and supported by the
building and projects over property.
   MEDICAL CANNIBAS FACILITY. A facility involved in medical cannabis,
including a medical cannabis manufacturer, medical cannabis distribution
facility, and medical cannabis laboratory.
   MEMBRANE STRUCTURE. A structure lacking a permanent foundation usually
consisting of an aluminum, steel or plastic frame which is covered with
aluminum, steel, plastic, fabric, canvas or similar materials and is used to
provide storage of vehicles, boats, recreational vehicles or other personal
property. The term shall also apply to structures commonly known as carports,
hoop houses, and tent garages and can be fully or partially covered but shall
not apply to boat lifts and canopies which are placed in public water.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings in a controlled-access,
screened, and secured  compound that contains individual compartmentalized and
controlled-access storage spaces of varying sizes which are leased or rented
for storage purposes on an individual basis.
   MINNESOTA POLLUTION CONTROL AGENCY (MPCA). The state organization
responsible for the NPDES/SDS permitting system.
   MODERATELY SUSCEPTIBLE WETLAND TYPE. A wetland characterized as shrub-carr,
alder thicket; fresh wet meadow not dominated by reed canary grass; or shallow
or deep marsh not dominated by reed canary grass, cattail, giant reed, or
purple loosestrife.
   MODULAR BUILDING, INDUSTRIALIZED. A building of closed construction made or
assembled in manufacturing facilities off the building site, for installation,
or assembly and installation, on the building site, and is constructed so that
concealed parts or processes of manufacture cannot be inspected at the site,
without disassembly, damage, destruction. This does not include "manufactured
home" or "prefabricated home", which are each defined separately.
   MOTEL. A building containing rooming units designed primarily for providing
sleeping accommodations for transient lodgers, with rooms having a separate
entrance providing direct access to the outside and with automobile parking
located adjacent to or near sleeping rooms.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM. As defined in City Code §
56.01 .
   NATURAL ENVIRONMENT LAKES. As defined in Minnesota Rule 6120.3000.
   NET FLOOR AREA (NFA). Total floor area, excluding exterior building walls.
   NOISE. Any activity which creates or produces sound regardless of frequency
exceeding the ambient noise levels at the property line of any property (or if
a condominium or apartment house, within any adjoining apartment) above the
ambient noise levels as designated by the NAC noise table at the time and place
and for the duration then mentioned.
   NON-CONFORMING -
      LOT. A lot or parcel legally existing on the effective date of this
chapter which does not meet the minimum lot width or lot area requirements of
this chapter or on the effective date of a new land use regulation.
      SIGN. A sign which lawfully existed at the adoption of this chapter but
does not conform to its requirements.
      STRUCTURE. A structure legally existing on the effective date of this
chapter, or subsequent revisions, which does not comply with the most current
regulations herein governing the zoning district in which such structure is
located.
      USE. A use of land, buildings, or structures legally existing on the
effective date of this chapter or a new land use regulation, which does not
comply with the regulations herein governing the zoning district in which such
use is located. Any use which has been allowed as a conditional use shall not
be considered non-conforming.
   NON-POINT SOURCE. Nutrient and pollution sources not discharged from a
single point, e.g. runoff from agricultural fields, feedlots or urban streets.
   NORMAL WATER LEVEL (NWL). For a reservoir with a fixed overflow, the NWL is
the lowest crest level of that overflow. For a reservoir whose outflow is
controlled wholly or partly by movable gates, siphons or other means, it is the
maximum level to which water may rise under normal operating conditions,
exclusive of any provision for flood storage. For a closed depression wetland,
it is the maximum level to which the water may rise under normal precipitation
conditions exclusive of any provision for flood storage.
   NURP. The Nationwide Urban Runoff Program developed by the Environmental
Protection Agency to study storm water runoff from urban development.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. See 'Day Nursery'.
   NURSING HOME. A licensed facility or part of a licensed facility which
provides nursing care to five or more persons. This does not include a facility
or part of a facility which is a hospital, a hospital with approved swing beds
as defined in M.S. § 144.562, clinic, doctor's office, diagnostic or treatment
center, or a residential program licensed pursuant to M.S. §§ 245A.01 -
245A.16, or M.S. § 252.28 and M.S. § 144A.01 Subd. 5.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse or regulatory flood plain which may impede,
retard or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by
catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
   OCCUPIED SPACE. The total area of all buildings or structures on any lot or
parcel of ground projected on a horizontal plane, excluding permitted
projections as allowed by this code.
   OFF-GRID. An electrical system that cannot be or is not permitted to be
connected to the utility's electric system or to any building or structure that
is connected.
   OFFICE. Administrative, executive, professional, or similar organizations,
providing direct services to consumers provided that no merchandise or
merchandising services are sold on the premises, except such as are incidental
or accessory to the principal permissible use. Examples include, but are not
limited to, firms providing architectural, computer software consulting, data
management, academic instruction, engineering, interior design, graphic design,
or legal services.
   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP. A map adopted in accordance with M.S. § 462.359 and is
the Official Zoning Map for the city.
   ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOODPLAIN. Lands inundated by the "Regional Flood."
   OPEN SPACE. Land preserved apart from development. An open area, including
passive and active recreation, unimproved land, pedestrian plazas, parks,
nature areas, playgrounds and trails, but not including holding ponds.
   ORDINANCE. This Zoning Ordinance, adopted as
Chapter 154 of the City Code, and as subsequently amended.
   ORDINARY HIGH-WATER LEVEL (OHWL). The boundary of public waters and
wetlands, and shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which
has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial.
   OUTDOOR SALES AND DISPLAY. Land devoted to the display of goods, products or
merchandise for sale, rent, lease or trade where such goods are not enclosed
within a building. This can also include the selling of goods or products
outside.
   OUTDOOR SALES EVENT. A seasonal or occasional sale held on the sidewalk or
other location outside a building.
   OUTDOOR SEATING. A commercial seating area for business patrons.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. Permanent storage of goods, materials, equipment, or fleet
or service vehicles outside of an enclosed building.
   OUTLOT. A tract of land identified by a capital letter and is land that is
not part of a block.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A zoning district that encompasses one or more primary
zoning districts or  portions thereof and that imposes additional requirements
or relaxes one or more standards required by the primary zoning district.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity having proprietary interest in the land.
   PARAPET. A low protective wall along the edge of a roof, bridge, or balcony.
   PARCEL. A designated lot, tract or area of land established by plat,
subdivision or as otherwise permitted by law.
   PARK, PUBLIC. A park operated by the City of North St. Paul, including all
park buildings.
   PARKING -
      ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACE. Parking spaces accessible for persons with
disabilities.
      ACCESSORY PARKING. Automobile parking as a subordinate use and of a
nature incidental to but supportive of the principal use, building or
structure. Accessory parking is characterized as a free service for employees
and/or customers of the principal use, building or structure.
      PARKING FACILITY. A commercial parking facility owned and operated by the
city or by a private entity and designed to accommodate the off-street parking
of motor vehicles. Such parking may be located in a structured parking
facility, a surface lot or a combination thereof.
      PARKING LOT. Any off-street area that is one-level, surfaced, open-to-
the-air, and used for parking vehicles.
      PARKING SPACE. A suitably surfaced and permanently maintained area,
either within or outside a building, of sufficient size to store one standard
automobile exclusive of any driveway or other circulation area, accessible from
a street, alley, or maneuvering area.
      PARKING STRUCTURE. Any structure, including multi-level parking, designed
and used for temporary location of vehicles and is commonly called a parking
garage or parking ramp.
      PROOF OF PARKING. An area of a lot other than that area secured for
yards, usable open space or landscaping which is allocated for parking but is
not paved or striped.
   PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION. The Parks and Recreation Commission of the
city, except when otherwise designated.
   PARTY WALL. A wall which divides two adjoining structures and in which each
of the occupants of the structures has rights of enjoinment.
   PATIO. A covered or uncovered, surfaced outdoor living area located at
grade, adjacent to and accessible from a dwelling.
   PAWN SHOP. A facility where money is loaned based on the value of goods
deposited at the facility by the borrower of the money, which goods are held by
the pawnbroker of the money occupying the facility as collateral for the loan.
Items held by the pawnbroker which are not redeemed by a borrower may be put up
for sale at the facility to the general public.
   PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT. Developments that are designed to provide a
safe, comfortable environment for pedestrians. Important elements include
sidewalks that are separated and buffered from vehicular traffic with limited
interruption from driveways; the provision of street trees and appropriate
street furniture; and buildings that visually address the street with visible
entranceways and windows, and, in the case of commercial buildings, may include
awnings or canopies that protect pedestrians from the weather.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD. Regulatory language stating the minimum requirement or
the maximum allowable limit on the effects or characteristics of a use or
structure.
   PERFORMANCE-BASED DESIGN. An engineering approach to design elements of a
building based on agreed upon performance goals and objectives, engineering
analysis, and quantitative assessment of alternatives against the design goals
and objectives, using accepted engineering tools, methodologies, and
performance criteria.
   PERGOLA. An outdoor structure usually consisting of parallel columns
supporting a permanent open roof system of girders and cross rafters that is at
least 50% open to the sky.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, trustee, receiver, assignee, partnership,
unincorporated society  or association, limited liability company, corporation
or any other type of business or association, including respective successors
or assigns.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Establishments providing non-medically-related services,
including salons, spas (with or without massage), barber shops, garment
tailoring or repair, laundry and dry cleaning establishments, body art
establishments, and post offices. These uses may also include accessory retail
sales of products related to the services provided.
   PERVIOUS PAVEMENT OR PAVERS. Pavement or pavers that are designed and
maintained to allow precipitation to infiltrate into the ground, in order to
reduce the volume and velocity of stormwater runoff. Pervious pavement
materials include pervious interlocking concrete paving blocks, concrete grid
pavers, perforated brick pavers, and similar materials determined by the City
Engineer to qualify.
   PHASED DEVELOPMENT. Two or more development projects undertaken or to be
undertaken by the same developer or proposer that the city determines will have
effects on the same geographic area and that are or will be undertaken over a
limited period of time.
   PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED. Having sight disabilities, hearing disabilities,
disabilities of incoordination, disabilities of aging, or other disabilities
that significantly reduce mobility, flexibility, coordination, or
perceptiveness.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A large area of land under unified control
that is planned and developed as a whole through a single development operation
or programmed series of development phases, in accord with the master plan for
the purpose of encouraging design flexibility, mix of land uses, housing types,
density, sustainability and creativity in land planning. The development may
include streets, sidewalks, utilities, buildings, open space and other site
features and improvements.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of North St. Paul
established by the City Council to perform planning pursuant to M.S. § 462.354.
   PLANTING AREA. An unpaved pervious area intended or used for the placement
of a tree or other required landscaping elements.
   PLAT. The drawing or map of a subdivision prepared for filing of record
pursuant to M.S. § 505  and containing all elements and requirements set forth
in applicable local regulations adopted pursuant to M.S. § 462.358 and M.S. §
505.
   PORCH. A covered entrance to a building consisting of a platform area, with
open or enclosed sides, projecting from the wall of a building. (see
FIGURE 16)
   PORTABLE STORAGE UNIT. A non-permanent, non-habitable, self-contained
structure designed for temporary placement on and subsequent removal from a
parcel for the purpose of facilitating off-site storage.
   POTABLE WATER. Water free from impurities present in amounts sufficient to
cause disease or harmful physiological effects and conforming in
bacteriological and chemical quality to the requirements of the public health
authority having jurisdiction.
   PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. Used in connection with the granting of a variance,
means that the property owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable
manner not permitted by the zoning ordinance, the plight of the landowner is
due to circumstances unique to the property not created by the landowner, and
the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the
locality. Economic considerations alone do not constitute practical
difficulties.
   PRE-CUT HOME. A non-mobile housing unit in which the lumber components for
the walls, floors and ceilings, roof and structured member are pre-cut at a
central factory and transported to a building site where final construction is
completed, permanently affixing the unit to the site.
   PREFABRICATED HOME. A single-family or multi-family dwelling unit
constructed of walls, floors, ceilings and other building components that have
been separately constructed off of the building site and are then transported
to the building site for assembly and installation.
   PREMISES. Land together with the buildings and structures thereon.
   PRODUCTION OR PROCESSING. The assembly, disassembly, fabrication,
manufacture, cleaning, servicing, packaging, sorting or other handling of goods
or materials, either as an intermediate input for further production or
processing, or for final sale, use or consumption.
   PROPERTY LINE. The legal boundaries of a parcel of property.
   PUBLIC HEALTH AND GENERAL WELFARE. As defined in M.S. § 103D.011, Subd. 23
and 24.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, street, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, water system, sidewalk, pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-
street parking area, street lights, lot improvement or other facility for which
the city may ultimately assume ownership, responsibility for maintenance and
operation, or which may affect an improvement, for which local government
responsibility is or may be established.
   PUBLIC LAND. Land owned or operated by a municipality, school district,
county, state or other governmental unit.
   PUBLIC NOTICE. A ten days' printed notice of the time, place, and purpose of
a hearing or proceeding.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Open space owned by the city, county, state, school
district or other special district.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Waters of the state as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 15.
   PUBLIC WAY. An alley, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch, easement,
expressway, freeway, highway, lane, parkway, right-of-way, road, sidewalk,
street, subway, tunnel, viaduct, walk or  other way in which a public entity
has a proprietary right, or which is dedicated whether or not it has been
improved.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a reach.
   RECEIVING WATERS. All lakes, ponds, streams, marshes, reservoirs, springs,
wetlands that are not part of the city's municipal separate storm sewer system.
   RECREATION -
      RECREATION, ACTIVE. Refers to a structured individual or team activity
that requires the use of special facilities, courses, fields, or equipment.
Examples of active recreation include: baseball, soccer, tennis, skateboarding,
and hockey.
      RECREATION, INDOOR, COMMERCIAL. A commercial recreational land use
conducted entirely within a building, including arcade, arena, athletic and
health clubs, bowling alley, community center, conference center, exhibit hall,
gymnasium, movie theater, pool or billiard hall, skating rink, swimming pool,
tennis court and the like.
      RECREATION, OUTDOOR, COMMERCIAL. A commercial recreation facility that is
primarily an open air facility, such as baseball fields, swimming pools,
skating rinks, golf driving ranges, or miniature golf facilities.
      RECREATION, PASSIVE. Refers to recreational activities that do not
require prepared facilities like sports fields or pavilions. Passive
recreational activities place minimal stress on a site's resources; as a
result, they can provide ecosystem service benefits and are highly compatible
with natural resource protection. Examples of passive recreation include:
hiking, picnicking, swimming, walking, observing and photographing nature.
      RECREATION, PUBLIC. All uses that are commonly provided at parks,
playgrounds, community centers and other such sites owned and operated by a
unit of government for the purpose of providing recreation to the public.
   RECREATIONAL DEVELOPMENT LAKES. As defined in Minnesota Rule 6120.3000.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type portable structure without permanent
foundation which can be towed, hauled, or driven and primarily designed as
temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping, and travel use, and
including, but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, camping
trailers, and self-propelled motor homes.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which can be expected to occur on an average
frequency in the magnitude of the 1% change or 100-year recurrence interval.
REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term "base flood" used in a flood
insurance study.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEY. A survey map of registered land designed to simplify
a complicated metes and bounds description by designating the same as a tract
or tracts of a registered land survey number.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). An elevation not less than one
foot above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the flood plain that result from
designation of a floodway.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS. A facility where people regularly assemble for
religious worship and any incidental religious education, which is maintained
and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain public worship. For
purposes of this code, a columbarium shall be included in the definition of
religious institution. This term does not include an elementary or secondary
school, a specialty or personal instruction school, or a college. This term is
also known as a place of worship.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building
for the purpose of its maintenance.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average  equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under M.S. § 245.462 Subd. 23 or
a facility licensed under M.S. § 245G.21.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment that involves the preparation of food and
drink, served to and consumed by patrons primarily on the premises or for carry
out.
   RETAIL SALES. A commercial enterprise that provides goods directly to the
consumer, where such goods are available for immediate purchase and removal
from the premises by the purchaser. These uses may also include accessory
service of the types of retail goods sold on the premise.
   RETENTION. The prevention of direct discharge of storm water runoff into
receiving water or conveyance networks; examples include systems that discharge
through percolation, exfiltration, infiltration and evaporation processes that
generally have residence times of less than three days.
   RETENTION FACILITY. A permanent natural or manmade structure that provides
for the storage of storm water runoff by means of a permanent pool of water.
   REZONING. The process whereby the zoning classification or specific
regulations applicable to a property are changed from one district to another,
also referred to as "Zoning Map Amendment."
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land acquired by reservation or dedication intended for public
use and to be occupied by a street, trail, railroad, utility lines, oil or gas
pipeline, water line, sanitary sewer, storm sewer or other similar uses. RIGHT-
OF-WAY includes any "Public Ways."
   ROOF (TYPES). The top covering of a building constructed to shield the area
beneath from the weather.
      ARCH. A curved symmetrical structure supporting the weight of a roof
above.
      FLAT. A roof slope with a two-foot rise over a twelve-foot run or less.
      GABLED. A roof that slopes from both sides of a ridge.
      GAMBREL. A double pitched roof.
      HIPPED. A roof with slopes on all four sides, continuous from peak to
eaves.
      MANSARD. A steep, dual pitched hipped roof allowing a tall attic space;
frequently used to add an upper story.
   ROOF LINE. The highest point of the coping of a flat roof, the lower edge of
the eave of a pitched roof, or the uppermost height of a facade or parapet in
the case of an extended facade or parapet.
   ROOF PITCH. The final exterior slope of a building roof typically but not
exclusively expressed as a ratio of the distance, in inches, of vertical "rise"
to the distance, in inches, of horizontal "run," such as 3:12, 9:12, 12:12.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking and
eating purposes.
   RUNOFF. Rainfall, snowmelt, or irrigation water flowing over the ground
surface.
   RWMWD. Ramsey-Washington Metro Watershed District.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any place where any person who is a junk dealer or salvage
dealer buys, exchanges, collects, receives, stores, accumulates, sells or
otherwise transfers junk or salvaged material.
   SCHOOLS, ELEMENTARY OR SECONDARY. Public or private schools which provide an
educational program for one or more grades between pre-kindergarten and grade
12 and which are commonly known as elementary schools, grade schools, middle
schools, junior high schools, or high schools.
   SCREENING. The use of plant materials, fences or earthen berms to partially
conceal the separate land use from the surrounding land use.
   SECTION (ELEVATION). A view of a building seen from one side, a flat
representation of one façade. This is the most common view used to describe the
external appearance of a building.
   SEDIMENT. Solid mineral or organic material, that in suspension is being
transported or has been moved from its original site by air, water, gravity or
ice, and has been deposited at another location.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process or action of depositing sediment that is
determined to have been caused by erosion.
   SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY. A building or group of buildings in a
controlled-access, screened, and secured compound that contains individual
compartmentalized and controlled-access storage spaces of varying sizes which
are leased or rented for storage purposes on an individual basis.
   SENIOR HOUSING. A residential housing development, excluding nursing homes
and exclusive of any unit occupied by a caretaker, consisting of units meeting
the following requirements:
      1)   The units are designed for occupancy by individuals over 55 years of
age or by a couple with one or both members over 55 years of age;
      2)   The property owner shall record a covenant to run with the land
executed in a form approved by the city which restricts the use of the property
to occupancy by senior citizens;
      3)   Developments which do not consist of townhouses shall provide a
lounge or other inside community rooms equal in aggregate size to a minimum of
15 square feet for each dwelling unit.
   SENIOR HOUSING WITH SERVICES. Nursing home, assisted living, and memory care
for individuals 55 and older, as defined by M.S. § 144(D) and 144(G), as they
may be amended from time to time.
   SETBACK. The minimum required distance between a building or structure and
the property line nearest thereto. (see
FIGURE 17)
      SETBACK, AREA. The required open area on a lot that must remain
unoccupied and unobstructed by a building or structure from its lowest level to
the sky except as permitted by this chapter. The setback area extends along the
lot line at right angles to such lot line to a depth or width specified in the
setback regulations for the zoning district in which the lot is located.
      SETBACK, FRONT. The minimum required distance by which any building or
structure must be separated from the front lot line.
      SETBACK, REAR. The minimum required distance by which any building or
structure must be separated from the rear lot line.
      SETBACK, SHORELAND. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure
and the ordinary high water mark.
      SETBACK, SIDE. The minimum required distance by which any building or
structure must be separated from the side lot line.
   SEWAGE. Any water-carried domestic waste, exclusive of footing drainage and
stormwater runoff, of any residence, industry, agricultural or commercial
establishment, whether treated or untreated, including the liquid wastes
produced by bathing, laundry, or culinary operations, and from toilets and
floor drains.
   SEWAGE, RAW. Sewage which has not been subjected to any treatment process.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments built on a site which
is planned and developed as an operating unit and typically sharing common
space and services such as parking, maintenance and advertising.
   SHORE IMPACT ZONE. All land between the ordinary high or water's edge and a
line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the structure setback, as detailed
below.
 
           Shore Impact Zone
Silver Lake 37.5'
Casey Lake  75'
 
   SHORELAND. Land located within 1,000 feet from the normal high water level
of a lake, pond, or flowage; and land within 300 feet of a river or stream.
   SHORELAND ALTERATION. Grading or filling of shoreland areas or any
alteration of the natural topography where the slope of the land is toward a
public water or a watercourse leading to a public water.
   SHORELAND DISTRICT. Land located within a floodplain, within 1,000 feet of
the OHW of a public water or public waters wetland or within 300 feet of a
stream or river.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. Any dwelling or portion thereof that is available for use
or is used for overnight accommodations or lodging to guests for compensation,
for periods of less than 30 consecutive days.
   SHRUB. A low, usually several stemmed, woody plant.
   SITE. A lot or group of adjacent lots intended, designated, or approved to
function as an integrated unit, that is proposed for development in accord with
the provisions of this chapter and is in a single ownership or has multiple
owners, all of whom execute a joint application for development.
   SITE PLAN. A plan for the development of a tract of land drawn to scale,
including but not limited to identifying the proposed uses; the location and
dimensions of all proposed structures; public and private streets and roadways
on or abutting such tract, parking areas, ground covers; total acreage of the
tract, legal description, number of dwelling units, if any, and number of
bedrooms for each; the gross floor area, the floor area and ground floor area
of all buildings and structures; and the graphic scale to which the plan is
drawn.
   SLOPE. The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal; usually
expressed in percent or degrees.
   SOLAR TYPES -
      SOLAR ACCESS. A view of the sun, from any point on the collector surface
that is not obscured by any vegetation, building, or object located on parcels
of land other than the parcel upon which the solar collector is located,
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. standard time on any day of the
year.
      SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, structure or a part of a device or structure
for which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into
thermal, mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy.
      SOLAR COLLECTOR SURFACE. Any part of a solar collector that absorbs solar
energy for use in the collector's energy transformation process. Collector
surface does not include frames, supports and mounting hardware.
      SOLAR DAYLIGHTING. A device specifically designed to capture and redirect
the visible portion of the solar spectrum, while controlling the infrared
portion, for use in illuminating interior building spaces in lieu of artificial
lighting.
      SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected
in the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
      SOLAR ENERGY DEVICE. A system or series of mechanisms designed primarily
to provide heating, to provide cooling, to produce electrical power, to produce
mechanical power, to provide solar daylighting or to provide any combination of
the foregoing by means of collecting and transferring solar generated energy
into such uses either by active or passive means. Such systems may also have
the capability of storing such energy for future utilization. Passive solar
systems shall clearly be designed as a solar energy device such as a trombe
wall and not merely a part of a normal structure such as a window.
      SOLAR ENERGY EASEMENT. See 'Renewable Energy Easement'.
      SOLAR HEAT EXCHANGER. A component of a solar energy device that is used
to transfer heat from one substance to another, either liquid or gas.
      SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEM. A system that includes a solar collector and a
heat exchanger that heats or preheats water for building heating systems or
other hot water needs, including residential domestic hot water and hot water
for commercial processes.
      SOLAR MOUNTING DEVICES. Devices that allow the mounting of a solar
collector onto a roof surface or the ground.
      SOLAR STORAGE UNIT. A component of a solar energy device that is used to
store solar generated electricity or heat for later use.
      SOLAR SYSTEM, ACTIVE. A solar energy system that transforms solar energy
into another form of energy or transfers heat from a collector to another
medium using mechanical, electrical, or chemical means.
      SOLAR SYSTEM, GRID-INTERTIE. A photovoltaic solar system that is
connected to an electric circuit served by an electric utility company.
      SOLAR SYSTEM, OFF-GRID. A photovoltaic solar system in which the circuits
energized by the solar system are not electrically connected in any way to
electric circuits that are served by an electric utility company.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A term used for flood insurance purposes
synonymous with "one hundred year floodplain."
   SPECIAL INFILL HOUSING. Quality housing which may be suitable in development
or redevelopment of parcels.
   SPORT COURT. An outdoor play surface intended for use in sports. This term
includes outdoor tennis courts, basketball courts, volleyball courts, and
similar uses.
   STANDARD. A preferred or desired level of quantity, quality, or value.
   STATE LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A state-licensed and mandatory
residential facility occupied by persons in need of specialized treatment or
protection and resident staff who live together as a single housekeeping unit,
usually for a limited period of time.
   STOREFRONT. The ground level frontage of a building in which there is
located a single business directly behind the frontage. A building may have
more than one storefront. The length of the storefront is measured from the
outside edge of the exterior walls of the building, or if there are multiple
storefronts located in a single building, from the centerline of the wall that
separates the business from another business, public area, or other area not
occupied by the subject business.
   STORMWATER -
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Erosion and sediment control and water
quality management practices that are effective and practical means of
controlling, preventing and minimizing degradation of surface water, including
avoidance of impacts, construction-phasing, minimizing length of time soil
areas are exposed, prohibitions, and other management practices published by
state or designated area-wide planning agencies. Individual BMPs applicable to
this chapter are described in the current version of the following documents:
      (1)   Minnesota Storm Water Manual, 2005. Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency, 520 Lafayette Road North, St. Paul, MN 55155-4194; and
      (2)   Minnesota Urban Small Sites BMP Manual - Stormwater Best Management
Practices for Cold Climates, 2001. Metropolitan Council Environmental Services,
230 East 5th Street, St. Paul, MN 55101.
      STORMWATER DETENTION POND. Natural or created pond area that provides
temporary storage of excess stormwater for the purpose of attenuating the peak
rate of runoff by controlling the rate of pond discharge. Ponding areas that
drain completely between storm events are dry detention ponds. Ponding areas
that provide temporary storage in combination with a permanent wet pool are wet
detention ponds.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. A plan for the permanent management and
control of runoff prepared and implemented in accordance with the standards set
forth in §
154.010.
      STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan or document
containing the requirements of §
154.010 for storm water discharge that when implemented will decrease soil
erosion on a parcel of land and off-site sediment damages.
      STORMWATER QUALITY POND. A created ponding area per W. W. Walker (1987)
criteria that provides a permanent pool for the purpose of sediment and
pollutant removal to reduce water quality impacts of urban development.
      STORMWATER RETENTION POND. A natural or created ponding area that
provides permanent storage of excess stormwater for the purpose of attenuating
the peak volume of runoff, from which the only release of flow is by
infiltration or evaporation.
      STORMWATER RUNOFF. Water deposited by rain or other precipitation.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it or, if there is no floor above it,
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. That portion of a building under a gable, hip or gambrel roof,
the wall plates of which, on at least two opposite exterior walls, are not more
than two feet above floor of such story.
   STREET (TYPES) -
      ALLEY. A thoroughfare through the middle of a block giving access to the
rear of lots or buildings.
      ARTERIAL. A street, the principal function of which is to provide for
through traffic and which is designed to carry large volumes of traffic.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
      CUL-DE-SAC, TEMPORARY. A temporary turn around whose purpose is to allow
the safe and convenient reversal of traffic, until such time that the street is
extended.
      EYEBROW. A local street with a partial paved circle, usually for the
purpose of providing additional frontage to lots.
      FRONTAGE. A public or private street intended for the collection of
traffic that would otherwise directly access minor or major collectors or
arterial roadways whose function is the provide access to streets of higher
classification.
      HIGHWAY. Any public way designated as a highway by an appropriate local,
state or federal agency.
      LOCAL COLLECTOR. A roadway whose primary function is to provide access to
and from major collectors and local streets.
      LOCAL STREET. A roadway with traffic volumes generally less than 2,500
vehicle trips per day containing one lane of traffic in each direction whose
primary function is to provide access to and from property.
      MAJOR COLLECTOR. A roadway that links residential and commercial uses
with a balance between mobility and access and whose function is to provide
traffic circulation within the city and access to and from minor and major
arterials.
      MINOR ARTERIAL. An interregional road containing one or two lanes in each
direction with limited access and controlled intersections at other arterials
and collector streets. Minor arterials convey traffic between towns, boroughs
or other urban centers. Efficient movement is the primary function of a minor
arterial road.
      PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across a block or within
a block to provide access to be used by pedestrians and others.
      PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A limited access interregional arterial route
containing two or more lanes in each direction. They are designated exclusively
for unrestricted movement, have no private access and intersect only with
selected arterial highways or major streets by means of interchanges engineered
for free-flowing movement.
      PRIVATE STREET. A street serving as vehicular access to two or more
parcels of land which is not dedicated to the public and which is owned,
maintained and repaired by one or more private parties.
      TRAIL. A path with a surface used for travel.
   STREET (ELEMENTS) -
      SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      STREET, RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area owned and maintained by government
jurisdiction, for public street use.
      STREET FURNITURE. Manmade objects, other than buildings, which are part
of the streetscape. Examples include, but are not limited to, benches, litter
containers, planting containers, sculptures, and bus shelters.
      STREET PAVEMENT. The wearing or exposed asphaltic or cementitious surface
materials and underlying aggregate base materials of the roadway used by
vehicular traffic.
      STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the edges of the traveled
roadway if there is no curb, or between the faces of the curb with a minimum of
24 feet, subject to the City Engineer's discretion.
      STREETSCAPE. The aesthetic appearance and nature of a street in a
neighborhood created by elements such as architecture, graphics, and
landscaping.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE. See 'Building or Structure'.
   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided
into two or more lots or parcels, any of which resultant parcels is less than
ten acres in area, for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building
development or, if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel or land.
The term includes resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates
either to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its previous condition before becoming
damaged would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
"start of construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred "substantial damage," regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
"historic structure." For the purpose of this chapter, "historic structure"
shall be as defined in 44 CFR Part 59.1.
   SUBSTATIONS. Any electrical facility designed to convert electricity
produced by wind turbines to a voltage greater than 35,000 KV for
interconnection with high voltage transmission lines shall be located outside
of the road right of way.
   SURFACE WATER. All streams, lakes ponds, marshes, wetlands, reservoirs,
spring, rivers, drainage systems, waterways, watercourses, and irrigation
systems whether nature or artificial, public or private.
   SURFACED. A road, driveway, approach or parking lot which consists of
bituminous material, concrete or other similar material.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any basin or tank, above ground level or below ground level,
containing an artificial body of water sufficiently deep for swimming.
   TERRACE. A level plane or surfaced patio, directly adjacent to the principal
building on the surface of the land or on the roof of a building.
   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste materials including, but not limited to,
poisons, pesticides, herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological wastes,
radioactive materials, flammable or explosive materials and similar harmful
chemicals and wastes which require special handling and must be disposed of in
a manner which conserves the environment and protects the public health and
safety.
   TRAFFIC SIGHT DISTANCE. A triangular area on a corner lot of intersecting
streets which limits the placement of vegetation and other material which can
obstruct the view to oncoming traffic. The vertical area to be protected is
from two and one-half feet above the grade of the street to seven feet above
the grade of the street.
   TRAILER, WEIGHTED. A trailer required by the State of Minnesota to be
registered at over 3,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, that is are not a
recreational trailer or towed as a tractor/semi-trailer combination.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty building for
the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell,
and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property
and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for more than
90 consecutive days. The location of transient merchants shall be regulated by
the zoning regulations.
   TRANSIT STATION. A building or structure used by persons changing
transportation modes to or from transit; includes facilities where several
transit routes converge, designed to accommodate several transit vehicles at
once to permit transfer between transit routes. A TRANSIT STATION shall not
include a transit stop.
   TRANSMISSION LINE. Those electrical power lines that carry voltages of at
least 69,000 volts (69 KV) and are primarily used to carry electric energy over
medium to long distances rather than directly interconnecting and supplying
electric energy to retail customers.
   TRELLIS. A framework over which vines and plants may grow that is not a
pergola. A freestanding trellis or a trellis attached to and supported by a
building extending out from the building more than five feet shall be
considered a fence.
   USABLE OPEN SPACE. A required area on a lot which is graded, developed,
landscaped and equipped, intended and maintained for active and/or passive
recreation, available and accessible to and usable by all persons. Such area
and improvements include: ground areas, terraces, balconies, decks, rooftops,
outdoor swimming pools, outdoor seating areas, patio area, game area,
landscaped and grassy areas, gardens, sculpture gardens, recreational
facilities, pedestrian paths and trails or similar outdoor fixtures or
features, and water. Public parks or plazas within 300 feet of the site may be
used to meet this requirement.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
intended, designated or arranged or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained.
      USE, ACCESSORY. A use subordinate to the principal use on a lot and used
for purposes customarily incidental to those of the principle use.
      USE, CONDITIONAL. A use that may be allowed in a particular zoning
district and compatible with the district's character only if controlled
through additional standards and discretionary review that ensures the
appropriateness of a particular use at a particular location in the district.
      USE, CONFORMING. Designates a use which satisfies all applicable
requirements of this chapter as amended.
      USE, INTERIM. A temporary use of property until a particular date, until
the occurrence of a particular event, or until zoning regulations no longer
permit it.
      USE, NON-CONFORMING. See 'Non-Conforming-- Use'.
      USE, PERMITTED. A use which of itself conforms with the requirements,
regulations and performance standards of the particular zoning district  in
which it is located, in addition to other regulations of this chapter.
      USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or structures, as distinguished from
a subordinate or accessory use.
      USE, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. See 'Adult Use'.
      USE CATEGORY. A class of similar uses grouped together for purposes of
delineating the uses permitted in a zone.
   UTILITIES, MUNICIPAL. City facilities such as electrical, sanitary sewer,
water and storm sewer designed and constructed to City and State Board of
Health standards owned and operated by the city for the public use.
   VACATION. The act of relinquishing a recorded dedication or easement as in a
street right-of-way, utility easement, etc.
   VARIANCE. A modification or variation from the literal provisions of the
chapter where it is determined that their strict enforcement would cause
practical difficulties to a specific piece of property. A variance shall not be
granted allowing a use prohibited in the district in which the structure, use
and lot are located.
   VBWD. Valley Branch Watershed District.
   WALL, RETAINING. A wall not laterally supported at the top, which resists
lateral soil load and other imposed loads.
   WATER BASIN. An enclosed natural depression with definable banks capable of
containing water that may be partly filled with public waters.
   WATER BODY. All surface waters, water basins, watercourse, and wetlands as
defined in this Code.
   WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. A small, above ground
building or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks, and retaining
walls, which, because of the relationship of its use to a surface water
feature, reasonably needs to be located closer to public waters than the normal
structure setback. Examples of such structures and facilities include
boathouses, gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pump houses, saunas, patios,
and detached decks.
   WATERCOURSE. Any natural or improved stream, river, creek, ditch, channel,
culvert, drain, gully, swale, or wash in which waters flow continuously or
intermittently in a definite direction.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   WATERSHED. The area drained by the natural and artificial drainage system,
bounded peripherally by a bridge or stretch of high land dividing drainage
areas.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION PLAN. A document that provides for the protection of a
public water supply, submitted to the Minnesota Department of Health, is
implemented by the public water supplier, and complies with: A) the wellhead
protection elements specified in the 1986 amendments to the Federal Safe
Drinking Water Act, United States Code, Title 42, Chapter 6A, Subchapter XII,
Part C, Section 300h-7 (1986 and as subsequently amended); and B) Minnesota
Rules parts 4720.5200 to 4720.5290.
   WETLAND. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support and that, under
normal circumstances, does support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic
vegetation. Any wetland as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 19.
   WETLAND CONSERVATION ACT (WCA). The Minnesota Wetland Conservation Act of
1991, as amended.
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT. A business establishment engaged primarily in
selling to retailers for resale.
   WIND ENERGY-
      BLADE. The extensions from the hub of a wind energy conversion system
which are designed to catch the wind and turn the motor to generate
electricity.
      HEIGHT, TOTAL SYSTEM. The height above grade of the small wind energy
system, including the generating unit and the highest vertical extension of any
blades or rotors.
      ROTOR. The wind energy conversion system blades and the hub to which they
are attached.
      ROTOR DIAMETER. The diameter of the circle described by the moving rotor
blades.
      SHADOW/FLICKER. The shadows cast from wind energy conversion system which
generally occurs in close proximity to the wind energy conversion system,
although this will vary depending on the time of year, latitude, and turbine
height. Flicker effects can occur when the sun shines through the rotor blades
at certain times of day and results in the temporary blocking of the sun's rays
with each pass of a rotor blade.
      SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, HORIZONTAL AXIS. A small wind energy
system that has blades which rotate through a horizontal plane.
      SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, VERTICAL AXIS. A small wind energy
system that has blades which rotate through a vertical plane.
      SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING-MOUNTED. A small wind energy system
which requires support by a building, and does not connect directly to the
ground. A building mounted system is not a minor projection, as defined in
Section 29.402.
      SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, COLLOCATED. A small wind energy system that is
mounted on a tower or pole structure which serves another primary purpose, such
as a parking lot light or flagpole.
   VEHICLE-
      VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL. Any motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer designed
or used to carry freight, passengers for a fee, or merchandise in the
furtherance of any commercial enterprise and similar vehicles not ordinarily
used for personal transportation having a gross weight of more than 10,000
pounds and/or exceeding 18 feet in length.
      VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL TYPE I. A commercial vehicle less than eight feet,
six inches in height as measured to the top of any attachments or 22 feet in
length as measured to include any attachments to the vehicle.
      VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL TYPE II. A commercial vehicle greater than dimensions
of Type I and less than 15,000 gross vehicle weight rating.
      VEHICLE, LARGE RECREATIONAL. A recreational vehicle over 36 feet in
length or a boat or unoccupied trailer over 25 feet in length.
      VEHICLE, MOTOR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily on highways, and not operated exclusively
upon railroad tracks. Generally, does not include snow mobiles, manufactured
homes or trailers. May include all-terrain vehicles if displaying disability
plates per M.S. § 169.345.
      VEHICLE, PASSENGER. Any motor vehicle designed and used for carrying not
more than 15 individuals, including the driver. Passenger vehicle does not
include buses, school buses, or commuter vans.
      VEHICLE, RECREATIONAL. A vehicular type portable structure without
permanent foundation which can be towed, hauled, or driven and primarily
designed as temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping, and
travel use and including, but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers,
camping trailers, and self-propelled motor homes. Also includes trailers
classified as small utility trailers by the Minnesota Department of Vehicle
Services, receiving permanent registration with a gross vehicle weight of 3,000
pounds or less, and vehicles bearing a State of Minnesota recreational vehicle
license plate required for self-propelled vehicles and trailers equipped as
temporary human living quarters.
   WAREHOUSING. A facility for the storage, packing, and crating of materials
or equipment within an enclosed building or structure awaiting shipment to
other premises.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). An electrical generating facility
comprised of one or more wind turbines and accessory facilities, including but
not limited to: power lines, transformers, substations and metrological towers,
which operate by converting the kinetic energy of wind into electrical energy.
The energy may be used on-site or distributed into the electrical grid.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, COMMERCIAL. A wind energy conversion
system greater than 40 kW in total name plate generating capacity and designed
or operated to provide energy principally to consumers located off the premises
and does not meet the requirements established for a non-commercial wind energy
conversion system.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, FREESTANDING. A wind energy conversion
system other than roof-mounted.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, NON-COMMERCIAL. A wind energy conversion
system consisting of a wind turbine and associated control or conversion
electronics used primarily to reduce on-site consumption of utility power. A
non-commercial wind energy conversion system shall not exceed a rated capacity
of 40 kW in total name plate generating capacity.
      WIND ENERGY SYSTEM (WES). An aggregation of parts including the
foundation, base,  tower, generator, rotor, blades and supports in such
configuration as necessary to convert the power of wind into electrical energy
primarily for on-site use (e.g., wind charger, windmill or wind turbine).
      WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, INTERCONNECTED. A wind energy system which produces
electric power and is capable of connecting with the utility's electric system
or is otherwise capable of distributing surplus electricity to the public or
other properties outside the control of the wind energy system's owner, even if
the system is temporarily or automatically disconnected by a switch or other
mechanical device.
      WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, NON-ELECTRIC. A wind energy system which converts the
power of the wind into a mechanical energy, which is not electrical, and may
otherwise be of a decorative, ornamental or historical nature.
      WIND TURBINE. A wind turbine is any piece of electrical generating
equipment that converts the kinetic energy of blowing wind into electrical
energy through the use of airfoils or similar devices to capture the wind.
      WIND TURBINE GENERATOR. The component of a WES that transforms mechanical
energy from the wind into electrical energy.
   YARD. The open space on a lot inclusive of the required setback areas.
      YARD, CORNER SIDE. A yard located immediately adjacent to and extending
along the corner side lot line between the front yard and the rear lot line.
      YARD, FRONT. That portion of the yard extending along the full width of
the front lot line.
      YARD, INTERIOR SIDE. A yard located immediately adjacent to and extending
along another zoning lot or an alley between the front yard and the rear lot
line.
      YARD, LANDSCAPED. A front, side or rear yard that is required to be
landscaped, as specified in this zoning ordinance.
      YARD, REAR. That portion of the yard on the same lot with the principal
building located between the rear line of the principal building and the rear
lot line and extending the full width of the lot. (see
FIGURE 10)
      YARD, REQUIRED. See 'Setback, Area'.
      YARD, SIDE. That portion of the yard extending along the side lot line.
   YARD SALE. The sale or offering for sale to the general public of over five
items of personal property on any portion of a lot in a residential zoning
district, whether within or outside any building.
   ZONING. A map-based system for guiding land-use development by dividing a
city into land-use zones. An associated zoning code specifies the types of
acceptable land uses, setbacks, lot sizes, and other restrictions for each
zoning classifications and affects what an individual may legally do to develop
and use parcels therein. It is the method by which jurisdictions control the
manner in which areas develop.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The duly appointed person charged with enforcement of
this chapter.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A mapped area or areas as defined by this chapter within
which the regulations and requirements governing the use of property are
uniform.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. See 'Ordinance'.
   ZERO LOT LINE. See 'Lot Line, Zero'.
(Ord. 739, passed 8-18-2015; Am. Ord. 750, passed 3-15-2016; Am. Ord. 753,
passed 7-19-2016; Am. Ord. 760, passed 12-20-2016; Am. Ord. 779, passed 2-19-
2019; Am. Ord. 783, passed 4-16-2019; Am. Ord. 799, passed 7-20-2021; Am. Ord.
806, passed 7-26-2022; Am. Ord. 833, passed 8-20-2024; Am. Ord. 835, passed 12-
17-2024; Am. Ord. 846, passed 8-19-2025; Am. Ord. 848, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 154.004 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Enforcing Officer. The office of the Zoning Administrator is
established, for which the City Council may appoint such employee or employees
of the city as it may deem proper. It shall be the duty of the Zoning
Administrator to enforce this chapter and shall:
      1.   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter including,
but not limited to, maps, amendments, variances and conditional uses;
      2.   Institute in the name of the city, any appropriate action or
proceeding against a violator; and
      3.   Serve as an ex-officio non-voting member of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Advisory bodies. The Planning Commission, Design and Historical Review
Commission, Parks and Recreation Commission, and Board of Appeals and
Adjustments, as established and empowered in
Chapter 32 of this City Code, shall serve as advisory bodies to review and
provide recommendations, as called forth in this section.
   (C)   Requirements for all zoning applications.
      1.   Eligible applicant. Unless otherwise specified, any person, firm,
corporation, organization, or unit of government that has an interest in the
subject property or application. The property owner must be an applicant or co-
applicant to all zoning applications. Eligible applicants may apply for any
zoning application, as outlined in this section.
      2.   Procedure.
         a.   All zoning applications subject to the requirements of M.S. §
15.99 shall be reviewed by the city according to the process required therein.
         b.   All zoning applications outlined in this section shall follow
procedures necessary, as indicated on
Table 1.
         c.   Pre-application meeting. Before an application is filed, the
applicant is strongly encouraged to attend a pre-application meeting with the
Community Development Department. The purpose of the pre-application meeting is
to discuss, in general, the procedures and requirements for an application.
         d.   Application submittal. The applicant shall complete the
appropriate zoning application and pay associated fee, as provided by the
Zoning Administrator. The applicant shall pay all costs incurred by the city
for legal services, engineering services, and services of other persons or
entities employed by the city for, or in any way involved in, the review of an
application. The applicant shall submit an escrow to the city as established by
City Council at the time of application. Under no condition shall the fee be
refunded or waived for failure of the city to approve the application.
         e.   Completeness review. These procedures apply to any application
unless a different procedure is established for the application elsewhere in
this chapter.
         f.   No application is complete unless all of the required information
is included and all application fees have been paid.
         g.   The Zoning Administrator may establish a schedule for filing an
application that requires action by a board, commission or City Council.
Completed applications shall be filed according to any posted schedule of the
Zoning Administrator.
         h.   Public notice. The notice shall include the time, place and
purpose of the hearing. The type of notice required for certain applications is
established below:
            i.   Legal newspaper. Notice of said hearing shall be published in
the official newspaper at least ten days prior to the hearing.
            ii.   Property owners. The City Clerk shall notify all property
owners within the affected zone and within 350 feet of the outer boundaries of
the property in question; however, failure of any property owner to receive
such notification shall not invalidate the proceedings.
         i.   Additional commission review. If necessary, additional City
Commission(s) shall hold a meeting to review the proposal. The Commission(s)
shall make a report to the City Council recommending approval, denial or
approval with conditions. See §
154.004(A).
         j.   Planning Commission. A public hearing shall be held by the
Planning Commission who shall make its report to the City Council following the
hearing recommending approval, denial or approval with conditions.
         k.   City Council Action. The City Council shall take action on the
application referral by the Planning Commission, M.S. § 462.357.
         l.   Notification. Following City Council action, the applicant shall
be notified of the action taken.
         m.   Reapplication. No application shall be resubmitted for a period
of one year from the date of an order of denial unless the new application has
been modified to eliminate the objections to the requested basis for denial or
a change in circumstances warrants it.
      3.   Submittal requirements. Submittal requirements for all zoning
applications are listed in
Table 2.
   (D)   Zoning text and map amendments.
      1.   Purpose.  Zoning text and map amendments are procedures that amend
the written provisions of the ordinances contained within this chapter and the
zoning district boundaries. Amendments shall not be made indiscriminately, but
shall only be used as a means to reflect changes in the goals and policies of
the city as reflected in the Comprehensive Plan, policies, plans or changes in
conditions within the city. The amendments are defined as:
         (a)   Text amendment. Amendments to the text of this chapter.
         (b)   Map amendment. An amendment to the zoning map that changes the
district classification of an area or property.
      2.   Standards. The city may grant a zoning text or map amendment if the
proposed amendment is compliant with the following findings:
         (a)   The proposed amendment is consistent with the general purposes
and intent of the Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect the health,
safety, or general welfare of the city;
         (c)   The proposed amendment is compatible with present and future
land uses in the surrounding area and reasonably related to the overall needs
of the city;
         (d)   The proposed amendment is compatible with adjacent properties;
         (e)   The proposed amendment can be adequately supported by public
urban services including the water supply, transportation system and capacity,
police and fire protection, utilities, and sanitary waste disposal and
stormwater disposal systems; and
         (f)   If applicable, the proposed amendment is consistent with
officially adopted city plans and overlays.
   (E)   Variances.
      1.   Purpose. A variance to the Zoning Code may be granted to allow a
modification or variation from the literal provisions of the chapter where it
is determined that their strict enforcement would cause practical difficulties
to a specific piece of property.
      2.   Standards.
         (a)   The city may grant a variance if the proposed request is
compliant with the following findings: The variance is in harmony and
consistent with the general purposes and intent of the Comprehensive Plan and
this chapter;
         (b)   The variance will not adversely affect the health, safety, or
general welfare of the city;
         (c)   The variance is necessary due to special conditions applying to
the structures or land in question that are particular to the property and do
not apply generally to other land or structures in the district or vicinity in
which the land in located;
         (d)   The variance requested is the minimum variance necessary to
alleviate the practical difficulty;
         (e)   Practical difficulties are caused from the strict application of
the Zoning Code as outlined below:
            i.   The property owner proposes to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by the Zoning Code;
            ii.   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to
the property not created by the landowner; and
            iii.   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality.
            iv.   Economic considerations alone do not constitute practical
difficulties.
            v.   The variance is consistent with officially adopted city plans
and overlays.
      3.   Use variance. The Board of Appeals and Adjustment may not permit, as
a variance, any use that is not allowed under the Zoning Code for property in
the zone where the affected person's land is located.
      4.   Variances may be granted for solar energy access, earth-sheltered
construction, and temporary use of a one-family dwelling as a two-family
dwelling.
      5.   Conditions. In permitting a variance, the City Council may impose,
in addition to the requirements set forth in this chapter, conditions
considered necessary to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
and which are directly related to and bear a rough proportionality to the
impact created by the variance.
      6.   Denial. A variance may be denied by the City Council, such motion
and action shall constitute a finding and determination that the conditions
required for approval do not exist. Procedure as outlined in M.S. § 15.99 shall
be followed.
      7.   Modification of variance. Any change which is not specifically
permitted by the issued variance shall require an amendment. A request for an
amendment shall be administered in the same manner and all procedures shall
apply as if a new variance were being requested.
      8.   Expiration.
         (a)   A variance approved by the city shall expire one year after it
has been issued unless:
            i.   The City Council has set some other time limitation.
            ii.   It has been made use of by the applicant or property owner
within the one year timeframe.
   (F)   Conditional use permits.
      1.   Purpose. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use that may
be allowed in a particular zoning district and compatible with the district's
character only if controlled through additional standards and discretionary
review that ensures the appropriateness of a particular use at a particular
location in the district. Certain uses may have beneficial effects and serve
important public interests. These uses are subject to the conditional use
regulations because they may, but do not necessarily, have significant adverse
effects on the environment, overburden public urban services, change the
desired character of an area, or create major nuisances. A review of these uses
is necessary due to the potential individual or cumulative impacts they may
have on the surrounding area or neighborhood. The conditional use review
provides an opportunity to allow the use when there are minimal impacts, but
impose mitigation measures to address identified concerns, or to deny the use
if the concerns cannot be resolved.
      2.   Standards. The City Council may grant a conditional use permit after
considering the recommendation of the Planning Commission and if the use at the
proposed location is compliant with the following findings:
         i.   The use is consistent with the general purposes and intent of the
Comprehensive Plan;
         ii.   The use will not adversely affect the health, safety, or general
welfare of the city;
         iii.   The use is compatible with present and future land uses in the
surrounding area and reasonably related to the overall needs of the city;
         iv.   The use or appearance of the use is compatible with adjacent
properties;
         v.   The use can be adequately supported by public urban services
including the water supply, transportation system and capacity, police and fire
protection, utilities, and sanitary waste disposal and stormwater disposal
systems;
         vi.   The use will not create an excessive burden on existing parks,
schools, and other public facilities which serve or are proposed to serve the
area;
         vii.   The use will be sufficiently compatible or separated by
distance or screening from adjacent residentially zoned land;
         viii.   The use is in harmony with the general purposes and intent of
this chapter and the zoning district in which the applicant intends to locate
the proposed use;
         ix.   The use will not create an intrusion of excessive noise, glare,
or general unsightliness; and
         x.   If applicable, the proposed use is consistent with officially
adopted city plans and overlays.
      3.   Conditions. In permitting a new conditional use, the City Council
may impose, in addition to the requirements set forth in the chapter,
conditions considered necessary or appropriate to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare of the city.
      4.   Modification of conditional use permit. Any change which involves
structural alteration, enlargement, or intensification of the use or any
similar change not specifically permitted by the issued permit shall require an
amendment to the conditional use permit. A request for an amendment shall be
administered in the same manner and all procedures shall apply as if a new
permit were being requested.
      5.   Review. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record for all
conditional use permits issued, including information on the use, location,
conditions imposed, if any, by the city, time limits, review dates and such
other information as may be appropriate. The Zoning Administrator shall review
each conditional use permit to determine if the development is in conformance
compliance with the terms of such permit and any conditions designated on an
annual basis.
      6.   Duration. A conditional use permit shall remain in effect as long as
the conditions agreed upon are observed, but nothing in this section prohibits
the city from enacting or amending official controls to change the status of
conditional uses.
      7.   Automatic conditional use status. Over time, the zoning regulations
applicable to a specific site may change. This may be a result of changes to
the content of the zoning regulations for a specific zone or from a change to
the zoning map, including annexation and rezonings. After one of these changes,
if an existing use was allowed by right or was a nonconforming use, and is now
listed as a conditional use, the use is considered an approved conditional use
and may continue to operate. Any changes to the use are subject to the
conditional use permit process and the appropriate approval criteria.
      8.   Violation. In the event the applicant violates any of the conditions
set forth in the permit, the Council shall have the authority to revoke said
permit.
   (G)   Interim use permit.
      1.   Purpose. The purpose and intent of allowing interim uses is:
         i.   To allow a use for a limited period of time that reasonably
utilizes the property in the manner not permitted in the applicable zoning
district;
         ii.   To allow a use that is presently acceptable, but not permitted
within the zoning district and, with anticipated development, may not be
acceptable in the future.
         iii.   To allow for a use that is not otherwise identified as a
permitted, accessory, or conditional use, but may be appropriate in a
particular district, is closely related to another permitted or conditional
use, and/or the Zoning Administrator determines the use to be appropriate.
      2.   Standards. The City Council may grant an interim use permit if the
use at the proposed location is compliant with the following:
         i.   The use is consistent with the general purposes and intent of the
Comprehensive Plan;
         ii.   The use will not adversely affect the health, safety, or general
welfare of the city;
         iii.   The use is compatible with present and future land uses in the
surrounding area and reasonably related to the overall needs of the city;
         iv.   The use or appearance of the use is compatible with adjacent
properties;
         v.   The use can be adequately supported by public urban services
including the water supply, transportation system and capacity, police and fire
protection, utilities, and sanitary waste disposal and stormwater disposal
systems;
         vi.   The use will not create an excessive burden on existing parks,
schools, and other public facilities which serve or are proposed to serve the
area;
         vii.   The use will be sufficiently compatible or separated by
distance or screening from adjacent residentially zoned land;
         viii.   The use is in harmony with the general purposes and intent of
this chapter and the zoning district in which the applicant intends to locate
the proposed use;
         ix.   The use will not create an intrusion of excessive noise, glare,
or general unsightliness;
         x.   Will not impose, by agreement, additional costs on the public;
         xi.   Will terminate upon a tangible date or event specified in the
resolution approving said interim use permit; and
         xii.   If applicable, the proposed use is consistent with officially
adopted city plans and overlays.
      3.   Conditions.  In permitting an interim use permit, the City Council
may impose, in addition to the requirements set forth in the chapter,
conditions considered necessary or appropriate to protect the public health,
safety, morals and general welfare of the city and are deemed appropriate for
permission of the use, including a condition that the owner will provide an
appropriate financial surety to cover the cost of removing the interim use and
interim structures upon the expiration of the interim use permit.
      4.   Modification of an interim use permit. Any change which involves
structural alteration, enlargement, or intensification of use or any similar
change not specifically permitted by the issued permit shall require an
amendment to the interim use permit. A request for an amendment shall be
administered in the same manner and all procedures shall apply as if a new
permit were being requested.
      5.   Expiration. An interim use permit shall expire consistent with
conditions in statute.
   (H)   Site Plan Review.
      1.   Purpose. A procedure required for any expansion of 1,000 square feet
or more or any new commercial, industrial, institutional, and multi-family
development projects and to provide regulations pertaining to the enforcement
of site design standards. The site plan review process is intended to, allow
applicants to work in cooperation with the Commissions and City Council to
arrive at a design which protects the integrity of each unique zoning district
and is harmonious with the desired character of the city while maintaining and
improving the city's tax base, preserving and enhancing the built environment,
promoting the orderly and safe flow of traffic, ensuring compatibility with
adjacent developments, proper orderly development, and compliance with this
chapter.
      2.   Standards. The city may grant a site plan approval if the proposal
is compliant with the following:
         (a)   The proposal is consistent with the general purposes and intent
of the Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   The proposal will not adversely affect the health, safety, or
general welfare of the city;
         (c)   The proposal is compatible with present and future land uses in
the surrounding area and reasonably related to the overall needs of the city;
         (d)   The proposal or appearance of the proposal is compatible with
adjacent properties;
         (e)   The proposal can be adequately supported by public urban
services including the water supply, transportation system and capacity, police
and fire protection, utilities, and sanitary waste disposal and stormwater
disposal systems;
         (f)   The proposal will not create an excessive burden on existing
parks, schools, and other public facilities which serve or are proposed to
serve the area;
         (g)   The proposal will be sufficiently compatible or separated by
distance or screening from adjacent residentially zoned land;
         (h)   The proposal is in harmony with the general purposes and intent
of this chapter and the zoning district in which the applicant intends to
locate the proposal; and
         (i)   If applicable, the proposal is consistent with officially
adopted city plans and overlays.
      3.   Minor modifications. In the case of minor modifications of the site
plan, the Zoning Administrator may give approval if the decision does not
modify the overall theme of the development, affect public safety, or result in
the reduction of any minimum standard as provided in the Zoning Code. Nothing
contained herein shall be construed to allow the Zoning Administrator to vary
the provisions of any statute, ordinance, city policy, or previous directives
of the City Council. The Zoning Administrator shall have the discretion to
refer any minor modification requests to the Planning Commission and City
Council for their review and approval. Minor modifications may include, but are
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Lighting location and fixture type;
         (b)   Location, height, and style of fences and walls;
         (c)   Location of trash enclosures;
         (d)   Location and size of building signs and monument signs;
         (e)   Location and construction of on-site sidewalks, except on city
right-of-way;
         (f)   Location, type, and size of plantings, provided the modification
would have the same effective cover and screening;
         (g)   Location and construction of accessory buildings of less than
1,000 square feet;
         (h)   Minor relocation or addition of driveways or parking spaces.
      4.   Site plan amendment. Any modification deemed not to be minor shall
be required to complete a site plan amendment. A site plan amendment is subject
to all conditions and approvals required for a new site plan review.
      5.   Expiration. Unless otherwise specified, the approved site plan shall
become null and void within one year of the date of approval unless the
property owner or applicant received a building permit and commenced
construction of improvements on-site. Extension requests shall be submitted in
writing at least 30 days prior to expiration of the site plan and shall state
facts showing a good faith effort to complete work permitted under the original
approval.
      6.   Financial guarantee. The city may require a performance bond or
escrow in an amount equal to 100% of the estimated cost to complete the public
or private site and landscape plan improvements, exclusive of structures, to be
filed with the city.
   (I)   Design review.
      1.   Purpose. The design review process is intended to ensure the
implementation and vision of the Comprehensive Plan, Architectural Control and
Building Materials section of this chapter and the Downtown Design Manual for
properties located in the MU-1 Downtown Mixed Use District. Design review is
intended to assist in offering solutions which are flexible, allowing
applicants to work in cooperation with the Design and Historical Review
Commission to arrive at a design which protects the integrity of the MU-
1 Downtown Mixed Use District and is harmonious with the desired character of
the Downtown. A design review approval shall be required as a condition to
issuance of a building permit for new building construction, projects in which
the building design or materials of more than 25% of any single exterior
building wall or roof surface is altered, projects which alter the height of an
existing building by more than two feet up or down, or projects which alter the
lot coverage of an existing building by more than 10%.
      2.   Standards. The city may grant a design review approval if the
proposal is compliant with the following:
         (a)   The proposal is consistent with the general purposes and intent
of the Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   The proposal will not adversely affect the health, safety, or
general welfare of the city;
         (c)   The proposal or appearance of the proposal is compatible with
adjacent properties;
         (d)   The proposal is in harmony with the general purposes and intent
of this chapter and the zoning district in which the applicant intends to
locate the proposal; and
         (e)   If applicable, the proposal is consistent with officially
adopted city plans and overlays.
      3.   Minor modifications. In the case of minor modifications of the
design review, the Zoning Administrator may give approval if the decision does
not modify the overall theme of the development, affect public safety, or
result in the reduction of any minimum standard as provided in the Zoning Code.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to allow the Zoning Administrator
to vary the provisions of any statute, ordinance, city policy, or previous
directives of the City Council. The Zoning Administrator shall have the
discretion to refer any minor modification requests to the Design Review
Commission and City Council for their review and approval. Minor modifications
may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Minor exterior alterations to existing building, but which do
not require separate zoning permits.
         (b)   Maintenance of existing buildings requiring a building permit
and replacement of materials consistent with the Downtown Design Manual.
      4.   Design review amendment. Any modification deemed not to be minor
shall be required to complete a design review amendment. A design review
amendment is subject to all conditions and approvals required for a new design
review.
      5.   Expiration. Unless otherwise specified, the approved design review
shall become null and void within one year of the date of approval unless the
property owner or applicant received a building permit and commenced
construction of improvements on-site. Extension requests shall be submitted in
writing at least 30 days prior to expiration of the site plan and shall state
facts showing a good faith effort to complete work permitted under the original
approval.
      6.   Financial guarantee. The city may require a performance bond or
escrow in an amount equal to 100% of the estimated cost to complete the site
and landscape plan improvements, exclusive of structures, to be filed with the
city.
(Ord. 739, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 154.005 ZONING DISTRICTS AND PROVISIONS.
   The zoning districts are designed to assist in carrying out the intent and
purpose of the Comprehensive Plan which is to protect the public health,
safety, convenience, and general welfare.
   (A)   Zoning districts. For the purpose of this chapter, the city is divided
into the following districts:
Zoning District Table
District Abbreviation District Name Primary District Purpose
Zoning District Table
District Abbreviation District Name               Primary District Purpose
Residential Districts
R-1                   Single Family Residential   Low Density Residential
R-2                   Mixed Residential           Medium Density Residential
R-3                   Multiple Family Residential High Density Residential
Mixed-Use Districts
MU-1                  Downtown Mixed-Use          Small-scale mixed-use
MU-2                  Transitional Mixed-Use      Medium-scale mixed-use
MU-3                  Corridor Mixed-Use          Higher intensity mixed-use
                                                  and smaller-scale industrial
Overlay Districts
D-1                   Downtown District Overlay   Dense residential on edges,
                                                  compressed downtown core
S-1                   Shoreland Overlay           Protect the quality of
                                                  surface waters
Special Districts
LID                   Low-Impact Development      Conservations, open space,
                                                  sustainability
PUD                   Planned Unit Development    Integrated, coordinated
                                                  development
Floodplain Districts
F-1                   Floodway District           Provides additional
                                                  floodplain regulations
F-2                   Flood Fringe District       Provides additional
                                                  floodplain regulations
F-3                   General Floodplain District Provides additional
                                                  floodplain regulations
F-4                   Flood Storage District      Provides additional
                                                  floodplain regulations
 
   (B)   Zoning map. The location and boundaries of the districts within the
city are set forth on the official zoning map, titled "North St. Paul Official
Zoning Map." The map and all notations, references and data shown are
incorporated by reference into this chapter It shall be the responsibility of
the Zoning Administrator to maintain said map, and amendments shall be recorded
on said map within 30 days after official publication of amendments. The
Official Zoning Map shall be kept on file in the City Hall.
   (C)   District boundaries.
      1.   District boundary lines as indicated on the zoning map follow lot
lines, the center line of streets or alleys, the center lines of streets or
alleys projected and the center of water courses or the corporate limit lines.
If district boundary lines do not follow any of the above described lines, the
district boundary lines are established as drawn on the zoning map. Where a
district boundary line divides a lot of record in two or more districts, any
portion of such lot within 50 feet on either side of such a dividing district
boundary line may be used for any use of either use district; provided however,
if any portion such lot shall extend beyond the 50 foot limitation, the
district line as shown shall prevail.
      2.   Appeals from the Zoning Administrator's determination and questions
concerning the exact district boundary lines shall be heard by the Planning
Commission and a recommendation made to the City Council.
      3.   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by
official action of the city, the zoning district abutting the center line of
said alley or public way shall not be affected by such proceeding.
(Ord. 739, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 154.006 RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   Purpose. Residential districts are established to create vibrant
neighborhoods that provide for a range of housing types, promote quality
housing design and rehabilitation, and a superior living environment. These
districts are also intended to:
      1.   Ensure that new buildings and additions to existing buildings are
designed with sensitivity to their context in terms of building placement,
architectural materials, height, proportions, garage and driveway placement,
landscaping, and similar design features.
      2.   Maintain and improve the viability of existing housing of all types,
promote reinvestment in existing neighborhoods, and protect property values.
      3.   Maintain or increase compatibility between residential and other
allowed uses, and between different housing types, where permitted, by
maintaining consistent building orientation, parking placement and screening.
      4.   Facilitate preservation, development or redevelopment consistent
with the adopted goals, objectives, policies and recommendations of the
Comprehensive Plan and of adopted neighborhood, corridor or special area plans.
      5.   Foster community through attractive streets and public spaces that
create opportunities for encounters and gatherings.
   (B)   Submittal of plans. In order to review proposals for compliance to
this chapter, the following plans must be submitted to the city site plan,
landscape plan, building plan, and for certain uses, a site analysis plan.
   (C)   Use, lot and design requirements. (see
FIGURE 19)
      1.   Permitted, conditional and interim uses. See
Table 3 for a list of allowed uses within the residential districts. Other uses
may be allowed by the Community Development Department if they are determined
to be of similar scale and impact.
      2.   Accessory uses and structures. See
Table 3 for a list of allowed accessory uses and structures within the
residential districts.
      3.   Lot requirements. See
Table 4 for a list of lot requirements within the residential districts.
      4.   Design requirements. See
Table 5 for a list of design requirements within the residential districts.
   (D)   Single Family Residential District (R-1).
      1.   Purpose.  This district is established to allow, preserve and
protect areas of lower-density residential and development consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan.
   (E)   Mixed Residential District (R-2).
      1.   Purpose.  This district is established to maintain or increase
compatibility of the essential characteristics of varying residential housing
types and development consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (F)   Multiple Family Residential District (R-3).
      1.   Purpose. This district is established to stabilize, protect, and
encourage the essential characteristics of higher density residential and
development consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 739, passed 8-18-2015; Am. Ord. 748, passed 1-19-2016)
§ 154.007 MIXED-USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purpose. Mixed-use districts are established to create a vibrant urban
environment that brings compatible land uses, public amenities and utilities
together at various scales. These districts provide a range of district types,
from the Downtown Core District to the Corridor Highway District, while
fostering high-quality building and site design, enhanced pedestrian, bicycle,
transit and automobile circulation and a sense of community. These districts
are also intended to:
      1.   Encourage a diversification of uses, including residential,
commercial, and civic uses, in order to enhance the vitality and appeal of
these areas.
      2.   Facilitate preservation, development or redevelopment consistent
with the adopted goals, objectives, policies and recommendations of the
Comprehensive Plan and of adopted neighborhood, corridor or special area plans.
      3.   Encourage the development of mixed-use buildings including vertical
and horizontal configurations while maintaining and improving the quality of
the natural landscape.
      4.   Encourage appropriate transitions between lower and higher density
uses within the district.
      5.   Encourage a pedestrian-friendly environment, bicycle and transit use
as a means of accessing and moving through the district and surrounding areas.
   (B)   Submittal of plans. In order to review proposals for compliance to
this chapter, the following plans must be submitted to the city: site plan,
landscape plan, building plan and, for certain uses, a site analysis plan.
   (C)   Use, lot and design requirements.
      1.   Permitted, conditional and interim uses. See
Table 3  for a complete list of allowed uses within the mixed-use districts.
Other uses may be allowed by the Community Development Department if they are
determined to be of similar scale and impact.
      2.   Accessory uses and structures. See
Table 3  for a complete list of allowed accessory uses and structures within
the mixed-use districts.
      3.   Lot requirements. See
Table 7 for a complete list of lot requirements within the mixed-use districts.
Before any building permit is approved, the Zoning Administrator shall
determine whether the proposed use will conform to the requirements. The
applicant or owner shall supply data necessary to demonstrate such conformance.
   (D)   Downtown Mixed-Use District (MU-1).
      1.   Purpose.  This district is established to sustain and enhance the
viability of the Downtown in terms of preserving its small-town and pedestrian-
friendly atmosphere while encouraging development and redevelopment consistent
with the Comprehensive Plan to create a destination. The district is also
intended to:
         (a)   Preserve and enhance the historical character of the Downtown
where appropriate with historic renovations and adaptive reuse of structures.
         (b)   Encourage creating a sense of place within the Downtown through
aesthetics including architectural diversity, façade designs, parking
configurations, pedestrian-scale amenities, streetscape enhancements,
landscaping and the public realm.
         (c)   Encourage vertical mixed-use development in which the lower
floors generally have more public uses, with private uses on the upper levels.
      2.   Downtown Design Manual. Buildings within the MU-1 District shall
give due regard to the standards within the Downtown Design Manual.
   (E)   Transitional Mixed-Use District (MU-2).
      1.   Purpose. This district is established to sustain and enhance the
viability of commercial nodes that serve the needs of residents in adjacent
neighborhoods while encouraging development and redevelopment consistent with
the Comprehensive Plan. The district is also intended to:
         (a)   Encourage appropriate transitions to surrounding land uses
through aesthetics including architectural pedestrian-scale design, parking
configuration, streetscape enhancements, landscaping and screening.
   (F)   Corridor Mixed-use District (MU-3).
      1.   Purpose. This district is established to encourage the development
or redevelopment of mixed-use centers that combine new or existing retail
development with a variety of housing, offices, studios, live-work space, civic
building, employment activities, research, limited industrial and other
complementary uses which combine to create a lively environment consistent with
the Comprehensive Plan. The district is also intended to:
         (a)   Encourage the integration of complementary and related uses in
an aesthetically attractive and functional environment.
         (b)   Encourage building and site design that advances the city's
sustainability goals.
         (c)   Promote desirable economic development activities.
(Ord. 739, passed 8-18-2015; Am. Ord. 748, passed 1-19-2016; Am. Ord. 753,
passed 7-19- 2016)
§ 154.008 OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General provisions for overlay districts.
      1.   General statement of purpose. The requirements of the overlay
districts shall apply to all zoning lots located in such districts in addition
to all requirements in this code that apply to the primary zoning district
classification of those zoning lots. In the event of a conflict between the
provisions of any overlay district and the underlying primary zoning district,
the provisions of the overlay district shall apply, except where otherwise
specified.
   (B)   Downtown Overlay District (D-1).
      1.   Purpose.  This district is established to:
         (a)   Preserve cultural aspects of the Historic Commercial District.
         (b)   Encourage the physical development of the city as intended by
the city's Comprehensive Plan and Downtown Design Manual/Plans.
         (c)   Encourage the harmonious development and appearance of
structures and property within the district.
         (d)   Maintain and improve property values of the district and
throughout the city.
      2.   Lot requirements.  In addition to the lot requirement standards, the
following shall also apply:
         (a)   Front & side yard setback.
            i.   Infill buildings must meet a build to line which shall be
built flush to the sidewalk and flush to adjacent buildings.
            ii.   No side setbacks are allowed unless next to a public
pedestrian way or residential district where setback is required.
         (b)   Rear yard height transition to residential districts. When rear
yards in this district directly abut any residential district the following
rear setbacks are required:
            i.   Where no alley is present a setback of 15 feet is required.
            ii.   Where there is an alley present a setback of ten feet from
the alley is required.
         (c)   Building height.
            i.   Maximum building height is four stories or 50 feet, whichever
is less.
            ii.   Minimum length of building may not be less than 22 feet along
the front façade.
            iii.   No building may be greater than 24 feet higher than an
adjacent building.
      3.   Building orientation.  (see
FIGURE 20)
         (a)   Buildings on 7th Avenue shall have primary entrance onto 7th
Avenue with design elements as indicated in the adopted Downtown Design Manual
indicating entrance location.
         (b)   For businesses which occupy the "back" half of a building on 7th
Avenue, the primary entrance may be on the rear access to the building.
         (c)   For businesses on corner lots, they are encouraged to provide
dual access points as indicated in the adopted Downtown Design Manual.
         (d)   Public rear entrances are allowed which meet the requirements of
the adopted Downtown Design Manual.
      4.   Use. The allowed uses within the Downtown (D-1) overlay district are
the same as the uses listed within the Downtown Mixed-Use (MU-1) zoning
district in Table 3 except that townhouses are not allowed within the D-
1 district.
   (C)   Planned Unit Development District (PUD).
      1.   Purpose.  Planned Unit Developments (or PUDs) are allowed to
encourage innovation in project design that cannot be achieved through
traditional zoning. More specifically, this district is established to:
         (a)   Provide for development as an integrated, coordinated unit as
opposed to parcel-by-parcel, approach to development.
         (b)   Introduce flexibility of site design and architecture for the
conservation of land and open space through clustering of buildings and
activities.
         (c)   Enable development that is characterized by central management,
integrated planning and architecture, joint or common use of parking,
maintenance of open space and other similar facilities, and a harmonious
selection and efficient distribution of uses.
         (d)   Provide flexibility from ordinance requirements and joint
planning between the city and developer to protect other features such as
existing development, planned streets, vegetation, slopes, wetlands, lakes or
streams.
         (e)   Promote more efficient uses of the land while preserving
existing landscape amenities and allowing harmonious development consistent
with the Comprehensive Plan and preserving the health, safety and general
welfare of the community.
      2.   Objectives. The PUD is intended to encourage the efficient use of
land and resources, to promote greater efficiency in public utility services
and encourage innovation in the planning and building of all types of
development. Public benefits to be derived as a result of the PUD include, but
are not limited to:
         (a)   Harmonious mix of land uses, building types, open spaces, and
circulation elements.
         (b)   Concentration of open space into more usable areas.
         (c)   Preserve natural resources of the site including wetlands,
woodlands, steep slopes and scenic areas.
         (d)   Facilitate the economical provision of streets and public
utilities.
         (e)   Preserve and enhance historic and natural resources.
         (f)   Allow more than one principal building on a lot.
         (g)   Provision of a mixture of residential unit types and densities
in an integrated and well-planned area creating a variety of housing types,
consistent with the city's housing goals.
         (h)   Promote energy conservation through the use of more efficient
building designs, sites and clustering of land uses and buildings.
      3.   General requirements and standards.  
         (a)   Eligibility. A site is eligible for PUD designation only if it
meets at least one of the following:
            i.   Has two or more principal uses or structures on a single
parcel of land; this may include a mixture of townhouses, apartment projects
involving more than one building, detached residential structures, or non-
residential buildings.
            ii.   Multi-use structures such as commercial uses in industrial-
type developments, mixed residential and commercial developments, and more than
one principal use in a single building.
         (b)   Ownership. An application for PUD approval must be filed by the
landowner or jointly by all landowners of the property included in a project.
The application and all submissions must be directed to the development of the
property as a unified whole. In the case of multiple ownership, the approval of
the final plat shall be binding on all owners. In absence of an ownership
application, the project developer may submit with the development application
the written consent of all property owners within the proposed PUD. The
financial commitments incurred through any portion of the development shall be
the responsibility of the owner.
         (c)   Consistency with Comprehensive Plan. The proposed PUD shall be
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
         (d)   Permitted uses. All permitted, conditional, and interim uses
contained in the underlying zoning district shall be treated as permitted,
conditional, and interim uses in the PUD Overlay District.
         (e)   Density. Increased density shall be permitted to encourage the
preservation of natural topography and geological features. The city may, but
shall not be required to, provide concessions in setbacks, density, or lot size
to protect waterways or water bodies, steep slopes or other areas which would
normally not be developable. The city will consider allowing an increase in the
allowable density upon proof by the applicant that some of the following are
being provided as part of the proposed development:
            i.   Increased preservation of natural site features, topography,
geological features, wetlands, lowlands, wooded areas, and the like, beyond
what is required by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, by the city
and/or Ramsey County ordinances.
            ii.   Creation of conservation easements due to steep slopes,
wooded areas and/or environmentally sensitive areas, as identified in the
Comprehensive Plan.
            iii.   Creation of park/public areas for active and passive park
uses beyond required standards or other public purposes such as schools, public
buildings, greenways, and the like which meet the intent of the Park and
Recreation goals of the Comprehensive Plan and are consistent with the public
dedication requirements for the proposed development.
            iv.   Installation of public improvements designed to serve areas
beyond the project boundary.
            v.   Housing projects which provide affordable housing options,
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
         (f)   Development density. The minimum lot size requirements of other
sections of this chapter do not apply to a PUD except that the minimum lot size
requirements of the underlying zone shall serve as a guideline to determine the
maximum dwelling unit density of a total development. The maximum dwelling unit
density shall be determined by the area remaining after appropriate space for
street right-of-ways and any other public dedications have been determined and
subtracted from the total PUD area. If the property involved in the PUD
includes land in more than one zoning district, the number of dwelling units or
the square footage of commercial, residential or industrial uses in the PUD
shall be proportional to the amount that would be allowed separately on the
parcels located in each of the underlying zoning districts or as guided by the
Comprehensive Plan. In the Shoreland Overlay District total development density
shall be that of the underlying zone.
         (g)   Flexibility from ordinance requirements. The city may, but shall
not be required to, provide concessions in setbacks, density, lot size,
building height, street width or parking to achieve the purpose and objectives
of the PUD in (C)(1) and (2) herein.
         (h)   Relationship of PUD site to adjacent areas. The design of a PUD
shall take into account the relationship of the site to the surrounding areas.
The perimeter of the PUD shall be so designed as to minimize undesirable impact
of the PUD on adjacent properties and, conversely, to minimize undesirable
impact of adjacent land use and development characteristics on the PUD.
         (i)   Utility requirements. Utilities, including telephone and
electrical systems, installed within a PUD shall be placed underground. Utility
appurtenances which can be effectively screened may be exempt from this
requirement if the city finds that such exemption will be consistent with the
objective of this section and the character of the proposed PUD.
         (j)   Parking. Off-street parking and loading space shall be provided
in each PUD in the same ratios for types of buildings and uses as required in
the underlying zoning district unless the developer can demonstrate, to the
city's satisfaction, that a lesser standard should be permitted on the grounds
of one or more of the following:
            i.   The complementarity of peak parking demands by the uses within
the PUD. The city may require execution of a restrictive covenant limiting
future use of the property to those uses which will continue this parking
complementarity, or which are otherwise approved by the city.
            ii.   Shared parking provided through a non-exclusive agreement
with the owners of property located within 600 feet of the use if the parking
demands of the uses do not coincide.
            iii.   Proximity to mass transit. A 10% reduction may be awarded if
building entrances are located within 300 feet of a transit stop. An additional
reduction may be granted if an adequate sheltered transit stop within the
development is provided.
            vi.   Car ownership characteristics of the anticipated or targeted
residential population.
         (k)   Street width. Requirements outlined in the subdivision ordinance
for street widths may be relaxed depending on the number of off-street parking
locations and the anticipated density in the planned unit development. The
Planning Commission, City Engineer and city's Emergency Services (Fire,
Ambulance and Police) shall review each planned unit development to determine
street width requirements.
         (l)   Landscaping. In any PUD, the developer shall prepare and submit
a landscaping plan as a part of the Final Plan, which shall include a detailed
planting list with sizes and species indicated to be approved by the City
Council. In assessing the landscaping plan, the City Council shall consider the
natural features of the particular site, the architectural characteristics of
the proposed structures and the overall scheme of the PUD plan.
         (m)   Public services. The proposed project shall be served by the
city water and sewer system and fire hydrants shall be installed at such
locations as required by the City Engineer or the Fire Chief to provide fire
protection.
         (n)   Building height. Height limitations shall be the same as imposed
in the respective zoning districts, unless flexibility is granted for building
height per §
154.008 (C)(3)(g).
         (o)   Development agreement. Prior to the issuance of a building
permit as part of the PUD, the permit applicant, builder, or developer shall
execute and deliver to the City Council a development agreement for the PUD.
         (p)   Open space. Common open space shall be either held in common
ownership by all owners in the PUD or dedicated for public use with approval of
the City Council. Whenever possible, common open space shall be linked to the
open space areas of adjoining developments. Common open space shall be of such
size, shape, character, and locations as to be useable for its proposed
purpose.
      4.   Operating and maintenance requirements for PUD common open space and
service facilities.
         (a)   Whenever common open space or service facilities are provided
within the PUD, the PUD plan shall contain provisions to assure the continued
operation and maintenance of such open space and service facilities to a
predetermined reasonable standard.
         (b)   Common open space and service facilities within a PUD shall be
placed under the ownership of one or more of the following or may include a
method deemed most appropriate by the City Council.
            i.   Landlord control, where only use by tenants is anticipated.
            ii.   Property owners association, provided all of the following
conditions are met:
               A.    Prior to the use, occupancy, sale or the execution of
contracts for sale of an individual building unit, parcel, tract, townhouse,
apartment, or common area, a declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions or an equivalent document as specified in M.S. § 515.00, as may be
amended from time to time, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator prior
to the filings of the declaration of documents or floor plans with the Ramsey
County's Recorder's Office.
               B.   The declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions
or equivalent document shall specify that deeds, leases or documents of
conveyance affecting buildings, units, parcels, tracts, townhouses or
apartments shall subject the properties to the terms of the declaration.
               C.   The declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions
shall provide that an owner's association or corporation may be formed, and if
such an association or corporation is formed property owners must be members of
the association or corporation which shall maintain all properties and common
areas in good repair and which shall assess individual property owners
proportionate shares of joint or common costs. This declaration shall be
subject to the review and approval of the City Attorney. The intent of this
requirement is to protect the property values of the individual owner through
establishing effective private control.
               D.   The declaration shall additionally, amongst other things,
provide that in the event the association or corporation fails to maintain
properties in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the city,
or fails to pay taxes or assessments on properties as they become due, and in
the event the city incurs any expenses not immediately reimbursed by the
association or corporation, then the city shall have the right to assess each
property its pro rata share of the expenses. Such assessments, together with
interest thereon and costs of collection, shall be a lien on each property
against which such assessment is made.
               E.    Membership in the association must be mandatory for each
owner and any successive buyer and the association must be responsible for
liability insurance, taxes, and the maintenance of the open space facilities to
be deeded to it. This requirement may be waived by the City Council for
existing units which are being incorporated into a PUD.
               F.   The open space restrictions must be permanent and not for a
given period of years.
               G.    Property owners must pay their pro rata share of the cost
of the association by means of an assessment to be levied by the association
which meets the requirements for becoming a lien on the property in accordance
with state law and the association must be able to adjust the assessment to
meet changing needs.
               H.   The by-laws and rules of the association and all covenants
and restrictions to be recorded must be approved by the City Council prior to
the approval of the final PUD plan. If a final PUD plan is filed in one phase,
with staged final plats, the bylaws, rules of the association and all covenants
and restrictions may be filed with the final plat.
               I.    Staging of common open space. The construction and
provision of all of the common open space and public improvements and
recreational facilities that are shown on the final development plan for a PUD
must proceed at the same rate as the construction of dwelling units or other
private facilities.
      5.   PUD processes.
         (a)   Pre-application meeting. Applicants of a proposed PUD are
encouraged to arrange for and attend an informational meeting with city staff.
At such conference, the applicant shall be prepared to generally describe their
proposal for a PUD. The primary purpose of the meeting shall be to provide the
applicant with an opportunity to gather information and obtain guidance as to
the general suitability of the conformity to the provisions of this Code before
incurring substantial expense in the preparation of detailed plans, surveys,
and other data.
         (b)    Concept PUD plan. Applicants may, at their option, prepare
development sketch plans for review by the city. As far as may be practicable
on the basis of a sketch plan, the city will informally advise the owner as
promptly as possible of the extent to which the proposed plan conforms to the
design standards of this section and discuss possible plan modifications
necessary to secure conformance. The sketch may be reviewed, where applicable,
by the Planning Commission and the Council. Such sketch plans submitted shall
be for informal discussion between the developer and the city. Submission of
sketch plan shall not constitute formal filing of an application.
         (c)   Recommended neighborhood meeting. The applicant is strongly
encouraged to hold a neighborhood meeting. Property owners within 350 feet of
the PUD, or a larger area as determined by the city, should be given notice of
the meeting. The purpose of the meeting is to inform the neighborhood of the
proposal, discuss the concepts and basis for the plan being developed, and to
obtain information and suggestions from the neighborhood.
         (d)   Preliminary PUD plan.
            i.   The developer/owner shall submit an application for
subdivision or preliminary PUD plan at least 30 days prior to the Planning
Commission meeting.
            ii.   The Zoning Administrator shall review the preliminary
application and distribute to appropriate staff and consultants for review. The
Zoning Administrator shall post notice of a public hearing and forward all
comments, along with the application, to the Planning Commission.
            iii.   The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing,
following published notice and mailed notice to property owners within 350 feet
of the proposed PUD. Notice shall occur not less than ten or more than 30 days
prior to the hearing. Failure of a property owner to receive notice shall not
invalidate the process. The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary
PUD plan and submit a written report and recommendation to the City Council.
Such report shall contain the findings and recommendations of the Planning
Commission with respect to the compliance of the preliminary PUD plan with the
provisions of this Code and all other applicable federal, state, and local
codes and ordinances, and the Comprehensive Plan or other relevant plans.
            iv.   Within 60 days of the receipt of a complete application, the
City Council may take action to grant approval, grant conditional approval, or
deny approval of the plan. The city may extend the review period by up to 60
days if it provides the applicant written notice of and reasons for the
extension before the end of the initial 60 days.
            v.   Upon City Council approval, the City Attorney shall draft a
PUD development agreement which stipulates the specific terms and conditions
established and approved by the City Council and accepted by the applicant.
This agreement shall be signed by the Mayor, City Manager, and the applicant.
            vi.   Where the preliminary PUD plan is denied approval, City
Council action shall be by resolution setting forth the reasons for its
actions. A certified copy of the document evidencing said City Council action
shall be delivered to the applicant. The applicant will have 60 days to submit
a revised preliminary PUD plan to the Planning Commission. After the 60 day
period, a revised general concept plan must be submitted to the Planning
Commission unless otherwise arranged with the Zoning Administrator.
            vii.   If subsequent submittals of the preliminary PUD plan are
denied approval two times within one year of the original submission date, the
applicant will be required to submit a revised general concept plan.
            viii.   Limitation on preliminary PUD Plan approval. Unless a final
plan covering the area designated in the first stage of the preliminary PUD
plan has been filed within six months from the date the City Council grants
preliminary PUD plan approval, or in any case where the applicant fails to file
final plans and to proceed with development in accordance with the provisions
of this section and/or an approved preliminary PUD plan, the approval shall
expire. The City Council may, at its discretion, extend for not more than one
additional period of six months the filing deadline for any final plan when,
for good cause, such extension is necessary. In any case where the preliminary
PUD plan approval expires, the City Council shall forthwith adopt a resolution
repealing the general concept plan approval and the preliminary PUD plan
approval for that portion of the PUD that has not received final plan approval,
and re-establish the zoning and other ordinance provisions that would otherwise
be applicable.
            ix.   Review and evaluation criteria. The evaluation of the
proposed preliminary PUD plan shall include, but not be limited to, the
following criteria:
               A.    Adequate property control is provided to protect the
individual owner's rights and property values and the public responsibility for
maintenance and upkeep.
               B.   The interior circulation plan plus access from and onto
public rights-of-way does not create congestion or dangers and is adequate for
the safety of the project resident and the general public.
               C.   A sufficient amount of usable open space is provided.
               D.   The arrangement of buildings, structures, and accessory
uses does not unreasonably disturb the privacy or property values of the
surrounding residential uses.
               E.   The architectural design of the project is visually
compatible with the surrounding area. Architectural style or type of buildings
shall not solely be a basis for denial or approval of the preliminary PUD plan.
However, the overall appearance and compatibility of individual buildings to
other site elements of surrounding development will be given primary
consideration in the review stages of the Planning Commission and City Council.
               F.   The drainage and utility system plans are submitted to the
City Engineer and shall be subject to approval of the City Engineer.
               G.   The development schedule insures a logical development of
the site which will protect the public interest and conserve land.
               H.    Proposed unit and accessory use requirements are in
compliance with the district provisions in which the development is planned.
               I.    Whether the proposed PUD is consistent with the purpose
and objectives of (C)(1) and (2) herein.
         (e)   Final PUD plan. The final plan is to serve as a complete,
thorough and permanent public record of the PUD and the manner in which it is
to be developed. It shall incorporate all prior approved plans and all approved
modifications thereof resulting from the PUD process. It shall serve in
conjunction with other city ordinances as the land use regulation applicable to
the PUD.
            i.   Submission of the final plan. Upon approval of the preliminary
PUD plan, the applicant shall file with the Zoning Administrator a final plan
consisting of the information and submissions required by the final plan stage,
for the entire PUD or for one or more stages. The final plan is intended only
to add detail to, and to put in final form, the information contained in the
general concept plan and the preliminary PUD plan which shall conform to the
preliminary PUD plan in all respects. A final plan of a single-phase proposed
development or a portion of a multiple- phase proposed development may be
submitted simultaneously with the overall preliminary plan for purposes of
expediting the review process.
            ii.   Review and approval of final plan. The Zoning Administrator
shall forward comments of staff and consultants to the Planning Commission, who
shall prepare a recommendation for the City Council. No public hearing shall be
required for approval of the final plan. The City Council may approve the PUD
final plan with a majority vote.
            iii.   Recording of final plat and PUD agreement. Within 180 days
of the Zoning Administrator's notice of approval, the applicant shall record
the final plat and PUD agreement, or such portions thereof as are appropriate,
with the Office of the Ramsey County Recorder.
            iv.   Building and other permits. No building permit shall be
granted on land for which a plan for a PUD is in the process of review or which
does not conform to the approved final plan. Upon receiving notice from the
Zoning Administrator that the approved final plat and agreement has been
recorded and upon appropriate application of the applicant, building and other
permits may be issued to the applicant if the following conditions are met:
               A.    Public open space, if applicable, has been deeded to the
city and officially recorded.
               B.   A development agreement has been approved and executed by
all parties.
               C.   The homeowner's association (if applicable) by-laws,
covenants and deed restrictions have been approved by the City Attorney and
officially recorded.
               D.   The construction plans for proposed structures have been
approved by the Building Official.
               E.   All detailed site plans have been approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
            v.   Limitation of final plan approval. Within one year after the
approval of a final plan for PUD, or such shorter time as may be established by
the appropriate development schedule, construction shall commence in accordance
with such approved plan. Failure to commence construction within such period
shall, unless an extension has been granted as hereinafter provided,
automatically renders void the PUD permit and all approvals of the PUD plan.
The area encompassed within the PUD shall thereafter be subject to those
provisions of the zoning ordinances and other ordinances applicable in the
district in which it is located. In such case, the City Council shall forthwith
adopt a resolution repealing the PUD permit and PUD approvals and re-
establishing the zoning and other ordinance provisions that would otherwise be
applicable.
      6.   PUD data requirements.
         (a)   Concept PUD plan. Prior to preliminary PUD application, owners
of property in the PUD District are invited to prepare, for review by the city,
development sketch plans. Items to be supplied by the applicant include:
            i.   Overall maximum PUD density range.
            ii.   Proposed general development and use.
            iii.   General location of major streets, pedestrian walkways
adjacent to the tract, and scale and tract boundaries and north point.
            iv.   General location and extent of public and/or common open
space, areas to be preserved, significant topographical and physical features.
            v.   Sketch illustrating the general location of residential and
non-residential land uses with approximate intensities of development and any
zoning change requested.
            vi.   Staging and timetable of development.
            vii.   Other special criteria for development.
         (b)   Preliminary PUD plan. An application for approval of a
preliminary PUD plan shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator by the owner
(s) of title of property for which the PUD is proposed. A filing fee, as
established from time to time by City Council ordinance, shall accompany the
preliminary PUD application. The application and accompanying statements shall
be submitted and shall include:
            i.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Zoning Administrator
showing property lines, streets, easements, existing zoning, graphic scale,
north point, date of preparation, and such other items as the Planning
Commission may require to show the relationship of the proposed PUD to the
Comprehensive Plan of the city, to existing schools and other community
facilities and services, and to the surrounding area.
            ii.   Abstractor's certified copy property certificate providing
names and addresses of property owners within 350 feet of the outer boundaries
of the property (one copy).
            iii.   The legal description of the property and lot size.
            iv.   Boundary survey prepared by a registered surveyor, including
the property and 200 feet beyond, which illustrates:
               A.    Existing property lines and dimensions.
               B.    Ownership of all parcels.
               C.    Platting and easements.
               D.    Street and railroad right-of-ways.
               E.    Buildings.
               F.    Utility lines and facilities.
               G.    Public park and open space.
               H.    Private land use, subdivisions, and private property.
            v.   Natural features map(s) illustrating:
               A.    Contour lines at no more than two foot intervals.
               B.    Steep slopes of 18% or more.
               C.    Hydraulic information including drainage patterns,
delineated wetlands and land subject to periodic flooding, floodplain,
watercourses.
               D.   Soil and subsoil conditions.
               E.    Vegetation including classification of tree cover by
species.
            vi.   A preliminary plan of the entire area in such detail as to
show the land uses being requested, the densities being proposed, the proposed
lots and blocks and the off-street parking system or preliminary plat, if
applicable.
            vii.   A written statement explaining in detail, and with
supporting documentation, the specifics of the development plan as it relates
to the type of dwelling units proposed and the resulting population, the extent
and nature of non-residential development and the resulting traffic generated
and parking demands created.
            viii.   The proposed schedule and/or phasing for the development of
the site.
            ix.   The location, shape, size, and character of public or
private/common open space which is suitable for the PUD, in accordance with the
City Code
Chapter 153  requirements for park and open space dedication.
            x.   The location and size of all utilities including telephone,
electricity, gas, cable, water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer.
            xi.   Landscape plan including a detailed planting list.
            xii.   Size and location of all street right-of-ways and proposed
paved widths, and vehicular and pedestrian circulation, in conformance with the
City Code
Chapter 153 .
            xiii.   A statement setting forth the reasons why, in the opinion
of the applicant, the PUD will be in the public interest and consistent with
the objectives specified for PUD's.
            xiv.   Financial capacity of the developer/owner and fiscal
resources available including a FDIC insured letter of credit for 110% of the
estimated cost of public improvements associated with the development.
            xv.   Market area of the project and demand trends within the area.
            xvi.   Other materials as requested by the Planning Commission or
City Council.
         (c)   Final plan data requirements. A final application and its
supporting documentation shall give the same information as is required of
plats under City Code
Chapter 153  in addition to such other information as required by this chapter
and by the Planning Commission as a condition for approval of the preliminary
plan. In addition, the application shall be accompanied by such other
documentation, such as:
            i.   The location, size, use and arrangement, including height in
stories and feet, and total square feet of ground area coverage and floor area,
for proposed building, and existing buildings which will remain, if any.
            ii.   The location, dimensions and number of all driveways,
entrances, curb cuts, parking stalls, loading spaces, access alleys, and all
other circulation elements including bicycle, pedestrian walkways, and the
total site coverage of all circulation elements.
            iii.    Approximate area, and potential floor area, devoted to
commercial or office uses.
            iv.    Approximate area, and potential floor area, devoted to
industrial uses.
            v.   Schedule of construction. When the PUD is to be constructed in
stages during a period of time extending beyond a single construction season
(time period between road restrictions), a schedule for the development of such
stages or units shall be submitted stating the approximate beginning and
completion date for each stage or unit and the proportion of the total PUD
public or common open space and dwelling units to be provided or constructed
during each such stage, and the overall chronology of development to be
followed from stage to stage.
            vi.   Care and maintenance of open spaces or service facilities.
When the proposed PUD includes provisions for public or common open space or
service facilities, a statement describing the provision that is to be made for
the care and maintenance of such open space or service facilities shall be
submitted. If it is proposed that such open space be owned, operated and/or
maintained by any entity other than a governmental authority, copies of the
proposed articles of incorporation and by-laws of such entity shall be
submitted during the preliminary PUD plan stage.
            vii.   Where applicable, a preliminary and final plat prepared by a
land surveyor, duly registered in the state, in accordance with M.S. § 505.00
and City Code
Chapter 153 , as may be amended from time to time, which shall contain a
notarized certification by such surveyor that the plat represents a survey made
by the surveyor and that the monuments shown herein exist as located, and all
dimensions are correct, and a notarized certification by the owner or owners of
the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other public areas
as required.
            viii.   Detailed utility and infrastructure construction plans,
grading plan and drainage plan, approved by the City Engineer.
            ix.   A statement summarizing all changes which have been made to
any document, plan data, or information previously submitted, together with
revised copies of any such document, plan or data.
            x.   Such other and further information as the Zoning
Administrator, City Engineer, Planning Commission or City Council shall find
necessary to a full consideration of the entire proposed PUD or any stage
thereof.
            xi.   Title opinion provided by the developer showing good and
marketable title in the names of the owners of the property. This opinion,
together with an updated abstract, should be submitted to the City Attorney for
review.
            xii.   The Planning Commission may, by a written order, excuse any
applicant from submitting any specific item of information required herein
which it finds to be unnecessary to the consideration of the specific proposal
for PUD approval.
      7.   Amendments and administration.
         (a)   Generally. Amendments may be made in the approved final plan
when they have shown to be required by changes in conditions that have occurred
since the final plan was approved or by changes in the development policy of
the city.
         (b)   Minor changes may be authorized by the Zoning Administrator if
requested, and if caused by unforeseen circumstances and if they are consistent
with the intent and purpose of the final plan and do not increase the size of
any building or structure any more than 10% than originally proposed in the
preliminary PUD plan. Minor changes are:
            i.   Less than a 10% change in the approved separation of buildings
or location in relation to streets or other property lines;
            ii.   Change in the design of 10% or less of any building
elevation;
            iii.   Less than a 10% change in building height;
            iv.    Modification to parking lot configuration provided no
reduction in the number of stalls;
            v.   Engineering details or stormwater functions that do not affect
the layout of the site; or landscaping changes in plant type.
         (c)   All other changes, including but not limited to use,
rearrangement of lots, blocks and open space must be reviewed and approved by
the Planning Commission and City Council under procedures outlined in the
preliminary PUD plan, following a public hearing, with amendments to the
recorded copy of the final plan, following Council approval.
         (d)   Revocation. If the City Council finds that the development has
not occurred according to the establishing development schedule or is not
otherwise reasonable in the view of the City Council, the City Council may
revoke the PUD Overlay District.
   (D)   Shoreland Overlay District (S-1).
      1.   Purpose. 
         (a)   The unregulated use of shorelands in the city affects the public
health, safety and general welfare not only by contributing to pollution of
public waters, but also by impairing the local tax base. Therefore, it is in
the best interests of the public health, safety and welfare to provide for the
wise use and development of shorelands of public waters.
         (b)   Statutory authorization. These shoreland regulations are adopted
pursuant to the authorization and policies contained in M.S. § 103F, Minnesota
Regulations, parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900, and the planning and zoning
enabling legislation in M.S. § 462.
         (c)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this Code shall apply to
shorelands of the public water bodies as classified in §
154.008 (2)(b) of this Code. A body of water created by a private user where
there was no previous shoreland may, at the discretion of the governing body,
be exempt from this Code.
         (d)   Compliance. The use of any shoreland of public waters; the size
and shape of lots; the use, size, type and location of structures on lots; the
grading and filling of any shoreland area; and the cutting of shoreland
vegetation shall be in full compliance with the terms of this Code and other
applicable regulations.
         (e)   District application. The Shoreland Overlay District shall be
superimposed (overlaid) upon all the zoning districts as identified in
Chapter 154  of City Code as existing or amended by the text and map of this
Code. The regulations and requirements imposed by the Shoreland Overlay
District shall be in addition to those established by the base zoning district
which jointly apply. Under joint application of the districts, the more
restrictive requirements shall apply.
         (f)   Exemption. A structure or use which was lawful before adoption
of this chapter, but which is not in conformity with the provisions of the
Shoreland Overlay District, may be continued subject to §
154.008  of this Code.
      2.   Protected waters and classification.
         (a)   District boundaries. The boundaries of the Shoreland Overlay
District within the city shall consist of all lands as described within the
definition of shoreland in §
154.003  of this Code.
         (b)   Waters classifications. The following waters have been given
classifications and are regulated as such under state law.
 
ID       Name        DNR classification       OHWL      Watershed District
62000500 Casey Lake  Natural Environment      926.3 ft  RWMWD
62000100 Silver Lake Recreational Development 989.57 ft VBWD
 
      3.   Administration and permits.
         (a)   Permits required.
            i.   When a building, zoning or conditional use permit is required
for any activity regulated herein, no additional shoreland alteration permit
shall be required. However, the standards for the activity as contained herein
shall be applied to the issuance of that permit.
            ii.   A shoreland alteration permit shall be required for all
construction and development activity regulated within this chapter including
for:
               1.   All grading, filling and excavation activity as regulated
within §
154.008  (D)(8).
               2.   The construction of stairways, lifts, landings, water
oriented accessory structures and retaining walls located within the shore
impact zone (unless a building permit is required and issued).
            iii.   Activity regulated under §
154.008  (D)(7) and other activities specifically exempted within this chapter
shall not require a shoreland alteration permit.
         (b)   DNR notification procedures.
            i.   Notification shall be provided to the DNR Area Hydrologist at
least ten days prior to a public hearing to consider variances, conditional use
permits or plats within the shoreland area or amendments to the shoreland
standards.
            ii.    Notification shall occur ten days after a final decision on
all variances, conditional use permits or plats.
         (c)   Watershed management notification & permits. Additional
requirements of the Valley Branch Watershed District (VBWD) for Silver Lake and
Ramsey-Washington Metro Watershed District (RWMWD) for Casey Lake apply to some
projects.
      4.   Development standards.
         (a)   Lot area and width standards shall be regulated per the
following tables:
            i.    Recreational development lake:
 
Lot Type                Lot Area (sq. ft.) Lot Width (ft.)
Dwelling, Single-Family 7,920              60
Dwelling, Two Family    11,934             120
Dwelling, Townhouse     5,967 per unit     60 per unit
 
            ii.   Natural environment lake:
 
Lot Type                Lot Area (sq. ft.) Lot Width (ft.)
Dwelling, Single-Family 7,920              60
Dwelling, Two Family    11,934             120
Dwelling, Townhouse     5,967 per unit     60 per unit
 
         (b)   Use of the property shall be governed by the underlying zoning
district provisions.
         (c)   Height of structures and other facilities on lots shall be
regulated per the underlying zoning district of the property except for
facilities specified herein.
         (d)   Setback requirements.
            i.   The following setback requirements from the ordinary high
water level (OHWL) shall apply as indicated in the chart below. As an
alternative, the setback distance determined by the average setback of
structures on the two immediately adjoining lots can be used if the proposed
structure is not located in a shore impact zone.
 
Name        One Water Oriented Accessory Principal Structures & All Additional
            Structure per lot            Accessory Buildings
Casey Lake  10 feet                      75 feet
Silver Lake 10 feet                      75 feet
 
            ii.   The following types of structures are exempt from OHWL
setbacks indicated above, but are required to follow the standards contained in
§
154.008 (D) items 5-11:
               A.    Stairways, stairway landings, and pedestrian lifts.
               B.    Watercraft landing lift facilities and docks.
               C.    Decks.
               D.    Public park, beach, and marina facilities and other public
improvements.
      5.   Water oriented accessory structure performance standards. One water
oriented accessory structure is allowed per lot and must meet the following
standards:
         (a)   All structures must be located so as to minimize the impact upon
existing vegetation, and whenever reasonable in the most visually inconspicuous
portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the public waterbody, assuming
summer, leaf-on conditions.
         (b)   The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet in height,
exclusive of safety rails. Detached decks must not exceed eight feet above
grade at any point.
         (c)   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but must not
be enclosed or used as a storage area.
         (d)   Maximum size of structure is:
            i.   Casey Lake 250 square feet.
            ii.   Silver Lake 400 square feet and 20 feet wide.
         (e)   The structure or facility must not be designed or used for human
habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage treatment facilities.
         (f)   The structure must obtain a shoreland alteration permit.
         (g)   The following standards shall apply to attached or detached
decks:
            i.   The deck encroachment toward the OHWL does not exceed 15% of
the existing setback of the principal structure from the OHWL or does not
encroach closer than 30 feet, whichever is more restrictive.
            ii.   The deck is not enclosed, roofed or screened, and does not
result in the creation of an impervious surface.
      6.   Stairways, lifts and landings.
         (a)   Stairways, stairway landings, and pedestrian lifts shall be
located whenever reasonable in the most visually inconspicuous portions of
lots, as viewed from the surface of the public waterbody, assuming summer,
leaf-on conditions.
         (b)   Construction and design.
            i.   Stairways and pedestrian lifts must not exceed four feet in
width on residential lots.
            ii.   Landings for stairways and pedestrian lifts on residential
lots must not exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square
feet may be used for commercial properties and public open-space recreational
properties.
            iii.   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, stairway
landings, or pedestrian lifts.
            iv.   Stairways, stairway landings, and pedestrian lifts may be
either constructed above the ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the
ground, provided they are designed and built in a manner that ensures control
of soil erosion.
      7.   Shoreland vegetation alterations.
         (a)   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore impact zones and
on slopes greater than three to one is not allowed.
         (b)   In shore impact zones and on steep slopes (greater than three to
one), limited clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning, and trimming
of trees is allowed to provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling
site and to accommodate the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas,
access paths, beach and watercraft access areas, and permitted water oriented
accessory structures or facilities provided that:
            i.   The screening of structures, vehicles, or other facilities as
viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not
substantially reduced.
            ii.   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal of
trees, limbs, or branches that are dead, diseased, or pose safety hazards and
the removal of plants deemed noxious under state or local ordinances.
         (c)   Use of fertilizer and pesticides in the Shoreland Overlay
District must be done in such a way as to minimize runoff into the shore impact
zone or public water by the use of earth, vegetation, or both.
         (d)   For Silver Lake, additional vegetation standards are required
per the VBWD.
      8.   Shoreland grading & filling alterations.
         (a)   Grading, filling and excavations necessary for the construction
of structures and driveways under validly issued permits for these facilities
do not require the issuance of a separate shoreland alteration permit however
considerations and conditions stated as follows in §
154.008  (D)(8)(b) and (c) must be adhered to during the issuance of building
permits, grading permits, conditional use permits, variances and subdivision
approvals within the shoreland area.
         (b)   Notwithstanding §
154.008  (D)(8) item (a) (above) the movement of more than ten cubic yards of
material within shore impact zones will require a shoreland alteration permit.
         (c)   Alteration standards & requirements.
            i.   No person may fill, drain, excavate or otherwise alter the
hydrology of a wetland without first obtaining a permit from the Watershed
District.
            ii.   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that
ensures only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest
time possible.
            iii.   Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary,
for temporary bare soil coverage, and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible.
            iv.   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before
they reach any surface water feature must be used.
            v.   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards
consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil and water
conservation districts and the United States Soil Conservation Service.
            vi.   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner
that creates an unstable slope.
            vii.   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes
must be reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and
must create finished slopes of less than 3:1 slope.
            viii. Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public
waters must first be authorized by the commissioner under M.S. § 103G.245.
            ix.   Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or special uses and do not adversely affect adjacent or
nearby properties.
            x.   Placement of natural rock rip rap, including associated
grading of the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the
finished slope does not exceed three feet horizontal to one foot vertical, the
landward extent of the rip rap is within ten feet of the ordinary high water
level, and the height of the rip rap above the ordinary high water level does
not exceed three feet.
      9.   Roads.
         (a)   Public and private roads, driveways, and parking areas must be
designed to take advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve
maximum screening from view from public waters. They must be designed and
constructed to minimize and control erosion to public waters consistent with
the field office technical guides of the local Soil and Water Conservation
District, or other applicable technical materials.
         (b)   Roads, driveways, and parking areas must not be placed within
shore impact zones, when other reasonable and feasible placement alternatives
exist. If no alternatives exist, they may be placed within these areas, and
must be designed to minimize adverse impacts.
      10.   Stormwater management.
         (a)   When possible, existing natural drainage-ways, wetlands, and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter, and retain
stormwater runoff before discharge to public waters.
         (b)   When development density, topographic features, and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle stormwater runoff
using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed facilities
such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes, waterways, and
ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using surface drainage,
vegetation, and infiltration rather than buried pipes and manmade materials and
facilities.
         (c)   When constructed facilities are used for stormwater management,
documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that they are designed
and installed consistent with the local watershed district or of the local soil
and water conservation districts.
         (d)   New constructed stormwater outfall to public waters must provide
for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface debris
before discharge.
         (e)    Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential,
and reduce and delay runoff velocities, erosion potential, and reduce and delay
runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and protected as soon as
possible and facilities or methods used to retain sediment on the site.
         (f)   Additional stormwater management requirements may be required by
the RWMWD and VBWD.
         (g)   Impervious surface coverage shall be limited to amounts allowed
in underlying zoning district standards, except that no impervious surface
shall be allowed in the shore impact zone.
      11.    Sanitary provisions. Publicly owned sewer systems must be used for
all properties in the Shoreland Overlay District.
   (E)   Floodplain.
      1.   Purpose.
         (a)   Purpose. This chapter regulates development in the flood hazard
areas of North St. Paul. These flood hazard areas are subject to periodic
inundation, which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base.
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare by minimizing these losses and disruptions.
         (b)   National Flood Insurance Program Compliance. This chapter is
adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 Code of Federal Regulations Parts 59 -78, as
amended, so as to maintain the community's eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
         (c)   This chapter is also intended to preserve the natural
characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to
moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development.
      2.   Statutory authorization and findings of fact.  The legislature of
the State of Minnesota has, in M.S. § 103F and Chapter 462 delegated the
responsibility to local government units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City Council of North St. Paul,
Minnesota, does ordain as follows:
      3.   General provisions.
         (a)   How to use this chapter. This chapter adopts the floodplain maps
applicable to North St. Paul and includes three floodplain districts: Floodway,
Floodway Fringe, and General Floodplain.
            i.   Where Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts are delineated on
the floodplain maps, the standards in §
154.008  (E) items (4) or (5) will apply, depending on the location of a
property.
            ii.   Locations where Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts are not
delineated on the floodplain maps are considered to fall within the General
Floodplain District. Within the General Floodplain District, the Floodway
District standards in §
154.008  (E)(4) apply unless the floodway boundary is determined, according to
the process outlined in §
154.008  (E)(6). Once the floodway boundary is determined, the Flood Fringe
District standards in § 154.008 (E)(5) may apply outside the floodway.
         (b)   Lands to which chapter applies. This chapter applies to all
lands within the jurisdiction of the city shown on the Official Zoning Map and/
or the attachments thereto as being located within the boundaries of the
Floodway, Flood Fringe, or General Floodplain Districts.
            i.   The Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts
are overlay districts that are superimposed on all existing zoning districts.
The standards imposed in the overlay districts are in addition to any other
requirements in this chapter. In case of a conflict, the more restrictive
standards will apply.
         (c)   Incorporation of maps by reference. The following maps together
with all attached material are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of the Official Zoning Map and this chapter. The attached material
includes the Flood
Insurance Study for Ramsey County, Minnesota, and Incorporated Areas, dated
June 4, 2010 and the Flood Insurance Rate Map panels enumerated below, dated
June 4, 2010, all prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. These
materials are on file in the office of the City Manager and the Zoning
Administrator.
            i.    27123C0044G
            ii.    27123C0065G
            iii.    27123C0110G
            iv.    27123C0130G
         (d)   Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE). The regulatory
flood protection elevation is an elevation no lower than one foot above the
elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.
         (e)   Interpretation. The boundaries of the zoning districts are
determined by scaling distances on the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
            i.   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits
illustrated on the official zoning map and actual field conditions, the flood
elevations shall be the governing factor. The Zoning Administrator must
interpret the boundary location based on the ground elevations that existed ono
the site on the date of the first National Flood Insurance Program map showing
the area within the regulatory floodplain, and other available technical data.
            ii.   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries
will be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Board of
Adjustment and to submit technical evidence.
         (f)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
other private agreements. However, where this chapter imposes greater
restrictions, the provisions of this chapter prevail. All other ordinances
inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the
inconsistency only.
         (g)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This chapter does not imply
that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter does not
create liability on the part of the city or its officers or employees for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
         (h)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of
this chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of law, the
remainder of this chapter shall not be affected and shall remain in full force.
         (i)   Annexations. The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted by
reference into §
154.008  (F)(3)(c) above may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the
corporate boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this chapter. If
any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the city after the date of
adoption of this chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands will be subject to
the provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of annexation.
      4.   Establishment of zoning districts.
         (a)   Districts:
            i.   Floodway District. The Floodway District includes those areas
designated as floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
154.008  (F)(3)(c).
            ii.   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District includes
those areas designated as floodway fringe on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
adopted in §
154.008  (F)(3)(c), as being within Zone AE, but being located outside of the
floodway.
            iii.   General Floodplain District. The General Floodplain District
includes those areas designated as Zone A and Zone AE, without a floodway on
the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
154.008  (F)(3)(c).
         (b)   Compliance. Within the floodplain districts established in this
chapter, the use of any land, the use, size, type and location of structures on
lots, the installation and maintenance of transportation, utility, water supply
and waste treatment facilities, and the subdivision of land must comply with
the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. All uses not listed
as permitted uses or conditional uses in §
154.008  (F)(5) (Flood Way), (6) (Flood Fringe) and (7) (General Floodplain),
respectively, are prohibited. In addition, a caution is provided here that:
            i.   New and replacement manufactured homes and certain
recreational vehicles are subject to the general provisions of this chapter and
specifically §
154.008  (F)(10).
            ii.    Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal
maintenance and repair, or repair after damage to existing nonconforming
structures and nonconforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the
general provisions of this chapter and specifically §
154.008  (F)(12).
            iii.   As-built elevations for elevated or floodproofed structures
must be certified by ground surveys and flood-proofing techniques must be
designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as
specified in the general provisions of this chapter and specifically as stated
in §
154.008  (F)(11) of this chapter.
      5.   Floodway District (FW).
         (a)   Permitted uses. The following uses, subject to the standards set
forth in §
154.008  (F)(5)(b), are permitted uses if otherwise allowed in the underlying
zoning district or any applicable overlay district:
            i.   Pasture land, outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, forestry,
sod farming and wild crop harvesting.
            ii.    Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas and
airport landing strips.
            iii.   Open space uses, including but not limited to private and
public golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic
grounds, boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature
preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves, hunting and fishing
areas, and single or multiple purpose recreational trails.
            iv.   Residential lawns, gardens, parking areas and play areas.
            v.   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and
pipelines, provided that the Department of Natural Resources' Area Hydrologist
is notified at least ten days prior to issuance of any permit, and that the
standards in §
154.009  (F)(5)(d)(i), (ii), and (iii)(a) of this chapter are met.
         (b)   Standards for floodway permitted uses.
            i.   The use must have a low flood damage potential.
            ii.   With the exception of the uses listed in §
154.008  (F)(5)(a)(v), the use must not obstruct flood flows or increase flood
elevations and must not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or
storage of materials or equipment.
            iii.   Any facility that will be used by employees or the general
public must be designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time
for evacuation if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the
depth (in feet) multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a
product of four upon occurrence or the regional (1% chance) flood.
         (c)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed as
conditional uses following the standards and procedures set forth in this
chapter and
further subject to standards if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning
district or any applicable overlay district.
            i.   Structures accessory to the uses listed in §
154.008  (F)(5)(a) above and the uses listed in (ii-vii) below.
            ii.   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel and other materials.
            iii.   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves and water
control structures.
            iv.   Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials.
            v.   Placement of fill or construction of fences that obstruct
flood flows. Farm fences, are permitted uses.
            vi.   Road ready recreational vehicles meeting the exception
standards in §
154.008  (F)(10)(c).
            vii.   Levees or dikes intended to protect agricultural crops for a
frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency flood event.
         (d)   Standards for floodway conditional uses.
            i.   All uses. A conditional use must not cause any increase in the
stage of the 1% chance or regional flood or cause an increase in flood damages
in the reach or reaches affected.
            ii.   Storage of materials and equipment.
               A.   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potential injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
            iii.   Fill.
               A.   Fill, dredge spoil and other similar materials deposited or
stored in the flood plain must be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, riprap or other acceptable method. Permanent sand and gravel
operations and similar uses must be covered by a long-term site development
plan.
               B.    Temporary placement of fill, other materials, or equipment
which would cause an increase to the stage of the 1% chance or regional flood
may only be allowed if the City Council has approved a plan that assures
removal of the materials from the floodway based upon the flood warning time
available.
            iv.   Accessory structures.
               A.    Accessory structures must not be designed for human
habitation.
               B.    Accessory structures, if permitted, must be constructed
and placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the
flow of flood waters.
                  1.    Whenever possible, structures must be constructed with
the longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow; and
                  2.    So far as practicable, structures must be placed
approximately on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
               C.    Accessory structures must be elevated on fill or
structurally dry floodproofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 floodproofing
classifications in the State Building Code. All floodproofed accessory
structures must meet the following additional standards:
                  1.    The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and designed to
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls; and
                  2.    Any mechanical and utility equipment in the structure
must be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or
properly floodproofed.
               D.   As an alternative, an accessory structure may be
internally/wet floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 floodproofing classifications
in the State Building Code, provided the accessory structure constitutes a
minimal investment, does not exceed 576 square feet in size. A detached garage
may only be used for parking of vehicles and limited storage. All structures
must meet the following standards:
                  1.    To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure,
there must be a minimum of two "automatic" openings in the outside walls of the
structure, with a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding; and
                  2.    There must be openings on at least two sides of the
structure and the bottom of all openings must be no higher than one foot above
the lowest adjacent grade to the structure. Using human intervention to open a
garage door prior to flooding will not satisfy this requirement for automatic
openings.
               E.    Structural works for flood control that will change the
course, current or cross section of protected wetlands or public waters shall
be subject to the provisions of M.S. § 103G.245.
               F.   A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in the floodway must
not cause an increase to the 1% chance or regional flood. The technical
analysis must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a
stream.
               G.    Floodway developments must not adversely affect the
hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary
watercourse or drainage system.
      6.   Flood Fringe District (FF).
         (a)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses are those uses of land or
structures allowed in the underlying zoning district(s) that comply with the
standards in §
154.008 (E)(6)(b), which follows.
         (b)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses.
            i.   All structures, including accessory structures, must be
elevated on fill so that the lowest floor, as defined, is at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures must be no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood protection
elevation and the fill must extend at the same elevation at least 15 feet
beyond the outside limits of the structure.
               A.   As an alternative to elevation on fill, an accessory
structure that constitutes a minimal investment and that does not exceed 576
square feet in size may be internally floodproofed in accordance with §
154.008 (E)(5)(d)(iii)(D).
            ii.   The cumulative placement of fill or similar material on a
parcel must not exceed 1,000 cubic yards, unless the fill is specifically
intended to elevate a structure in accordance with §
154.008 (E)(6)(b)(i) of this chapter, or if allowed as a conditional use under
§
154.008 (E)(6)(c) below.
            iii.   The storage of any materials or equipment must be elevated
on fill to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
            iv.   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
            v.   Fill must be properly compacted and the slopes must be
properly protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable
method.
            vi.   All new principal structures must have vehicular access at or
above an elevation not more than two feet below the regulatory flood protection
elevation, or must have a flood warning /emergency evacuation plan acceptable
to the City Council.
            vii.   Accessory uses such as yards, railroad tracks, and parking
lots may be at an elevation lower than the regulatory flood protection
elevation. However, any facilities used by employees or the general public must
be designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time for
evacuation if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth
(in feet) multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a
product of four upon occurrence of the regional (1% chance) flood.
            viii.   Interference with normal manufacturing/industrial plant
operations must be minimized, especially along streams having protracted flood
durations. In considering permit applications, due consideration must be given
to the needs of industries with operations that require a floodplain location.
            ix.   Flood fringe developments must not adversely affect the
hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary
watercourse or drainage system.
            x.    Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles must meet the
standards of §
154.009 (F)(10) of this chapter.
         (c)   Conditional uses. The following uses and activities may be
allowed as conditional uses, if allowed in the underlying zoning district(s) or
any applicable overlay district, following the procedures in §
154.008 (F)(11)(d), Conditional Uses of this chapter. Conditional uses must
meet the standards in §
154.008 (F)(6)(b)(iv) through (b)(x) and §
154.008 (F)(5)(d).
            i.   Any structure that is not elevated on fill or floodproofed in
accordance with §
154.008 (E)(6)(b)(i) of this chapter.
            ii.   Storage of any material or equipment below the regulatory
flood protection elevation.
            iii.   The cumulative placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of
fill when the fill is not being used to elevate a structure in accordance with
§
154.008 (E)(6)(b)(ii) of this chapter.
         (d)   Standards for Flood Fringe Conditional Uses.
            i.   The standards listed in §
154.008 (E)(6)(b)(iv) through (6)(b)(x) apply to all conditional uses.
            ii.   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may
be utilized to elevate a structure's lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of stilts,
pilings, parallel walls, etc., or above-grade, enclosed areas such as crawl
spaces or tuck-under garages. The base or floor of an enclosed area is
considered above-grade and not a structure's basement or lowest floor if: 1)
the enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of the structure; 2) it
is designed to internally flood and is constructed with flood resistant
materials; and 3) it is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage. These alternative elevation methods are subject to the following
additional standards:
               A.    Design and certification. The structure's design and as-
built condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect as being in compliance with the general design standards of the State
Building Code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment, including ductwork, and other service
facilities are placed at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or
are designed to prevent flood water from entering or accumulating within these
components during times of flooding.
               B.    Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed areas. Above-
grade, fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages must be
designed to internally flood. The design plans must stipulate:
                  1.    A minimum area of openings in the walls where internal
flooding is to be used as a floodproofing technique. There must be a minimum of
two openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all
openings must be a maximum of one foot above grade. The automatic openings must
have a net area of at least one square inch for every square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding, unless a registered professional engineer or
architect certifies that a smaller net area would suffice. The automatic
openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or
devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters
without any form of human intervention; and
                  2.    That the enclosed area will be designed of flood
resistant materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the
State Building Code and will be used solely for building access, parking of
vehicles, or storage.
            iii.   Basements are subject to the following:
               A.    Residential basement construction is not allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
               B.    Non-residential basements may be allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation provided the basement is structurally dry
floodproofed in accordance with §
154.008 (E)(6)(d)(iv) of this chapter, which follows.
            iv.   All areas of nonresidential structures, including basements,
to be placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation must be
floodproofed in accordance with the structurally dry floodproofing
classifications in the State Building Code. Structurally dry floodproofing must
meet the FP-1 or FP-2 floodproofing classification in the State Building Code,
which requires making the structure watertight with the walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components capable of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy.
Structures wet floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 classification are not
permitted.
            v.   The placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or other
similar material on a parcel (other than for the purpose of elevating a
structure to the regulatory flood protection elevation) must comply with an
approved erosion/sedimentation control plan.
               A.   The plan must clearly specify methods to be used to
stabilize the fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the regional (1%
chance) flood event.
               B.   The plan must be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to the City
Council.
               C.   The plan may incorporate alternative procedures for removal
of the material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists.
            vi.   Storage of materials and equipment below the regulatory flood
protection elevation must comply with an approved emergency plan providing for
removal of such materials within the time available after a flood warning.
      7.   General Floodplain District (GF).
         (a)   Permitted uses.
            i.   The uses listed in §
154.008 (E)(5)(a) of this chapter, Floodway District Permitted Uses, are
permitted uses.
            ii.   All other uses are subject to the floodway/flood fringe
evaluation criteria specified in §
154.008 (F)(5)(b) below and in §
154.008 (F)(5) applies if the proposed use is determined to be in the Floodway
District in §
154.009 (F)(6) applies if the proposed use is determined to be in the Flood
Fringe District.
         (b)   Procedures for floodway and flood fringe determinations.
            i.   Upon receipt of an application for a permit or other approval
within the General Floodplain District, the Zoning Administrator must obtain,
review and reasonably utilize any regional flood elevation and floodway data
available from a federal, state, or other source.
            ii.   If regional flood elevation and floodway data are not readily
available, the applicant must furnish additional information, as needed, to
determine the regulatory flood protection elevation and whether the proposed
use would fall within the Floodway or Flood Fringe District. Information must
be consistent with accepted hydrological and hydraulic engineering standards
and the standards in § 154.008(E)(5)(c) below.
         (c)   The determination of floodway and flood fringe must include the
following components, as applicable:
            i.   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional (1% chance) flood.
            ii.   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood
based upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas.
            iii.   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the
regional flood without increasing flood stages more than one-half (0.5) foot. A
lesser stage increase than 0.5 foot is required if, as a result of the stage
increase, increased flood damages would result. An equal degree of encroachment
on both sides of the stream within the reach must be assumed in computing
floodway boundaries.
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator will review the submitted information
and assess the technical evaluation and the recommended Floodway and/or Flood
Fringe District boundary. The assessment must include the cumulative effects of
previous floodway encroachments. The Zoning Administrator may seek technical
assistance from a designated engineer or other expert person or agency,
including the Department of Natural Resources. Based on this assessment, the
Zoning Administrator may approve or deny the application.
         (e)   Once the Floodway and Flood Fringe District Boundaries have been
determined, the Zoning Administrator must process the permit application
consistent with the applicable provisions of §
154.008 (F)(5) and (6).
      8.   Land development standards.
         (a)   General. Recognizing that flood prone areas may exist outside of
the designated floodplain districts, the requirements of this section apply to
all land within the City of North Saint Paul.
         (b)   Subdivisions. No land may be subdivided which is unsuitable for
reasons of flooding or inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. Manufactured home parks and recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are considered subdivisions under this chapter.
            i.   All lots within the floodplain districts must be able to
contain a building site outside of the Floodway District at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
            ii.   All subdivisions must have road access both to the
subdivision and to the individual building sites no lower than two feet below
the regulatory flood protection elevation, unless a flood warning emergency
plan for the safe evacuation of all vehicles and people during the regional (1%
chance) flood has been approved by the City Council. The plan must be prepared
by a registered engineer or other qualified individual, and must demonstrate
that adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the evacuation.
            iii.   For all subdivisions in the floodplain, the Floodway and
Flood Fringe District boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and
the required elevation of all access roads must be clearly labeled on all
required subdivision drawings and platting documents.
            iv.   In the General Floodplain District, applicants must provide
the information required in §
154.008 (F)(7)(b) to determine the regional flood elevation, the Floodway and
Flood Fringe District boundaries and the regulatory flood protection elevation
for the subdivision site.
            v.   If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is
in a flood prone area, any such proposal must be reviewed to assure that:
               A.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage within the flood prone area,
               B.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage, and
               C.    Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood
hazard.
            vi.   Building Sites. If a proposed building site is in a flood
prone area, all new construction and substantial improvements (including the
placement of manufactured homes) must be:
               A.    Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
floatation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy,
               B.    Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant
to flood damage,
               C.    Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage, and
               D.    Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding.
      9.   Public utilities, railroads, roads, and bridges.
         (a)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as
gas, electrical, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the
floodplain must be floodproofed in accordance with the State Building Code or
elevated to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (b)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and
bridges to be located within the floodplain must comply with §
154.008 (E)(5) and (6). These transportation facilities must be elevated to the
regulatory flood protection elevation where failure or interruption of these
facilities would result in danger to the public health or safety or where such
facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or
auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where
failure or interruption of transportation services would not endanger the
public health or safety.
         (c)   On-site water supply and sewage treatment systems. Where public
utilities are not provided: 1) On-site water supply systems must be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and 2) New
or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the
systems into flood waters and they must not be subject to impairment or
contamination during times of flooding. Any sewage treatment system designed in
accordance with the state's current statewide standards for on-site sewage
treatment systems is considered to be in compliance with this section.
      10.   Manufactured homes, manufactured home parks, and recreational
vehicles.
         (a)   Manufactured homes. New manufactured home parks, expansions to
existing manufactured home parks, and new or replacement manufactured home
units on lots of record are prohibited in the Floodway District. If allowed in
the Flood Fringe District, these uses are subject to the requirements of §
154.008 (E)(6) and the following standards.
         (b)   Placement of manufactured homes. New and replacement
manufactured homes in the Flood Fringe District must comply with the following
standards:
            i.   New and replacement manufactured homes must be elevated in
compliance with §
154.008 (E)(6) and must be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top
or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable
state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
            ii.   New or replacement manufactured homes in existing
manufactured home parks must meet the vehicular access requirements for
subdivisions in §
154.008 (E)(8)(b)(ii).
         (c)   Recreational vehicles. Placement of recreational vehicles in the
floodplain must meet the exemption criteria below or be treated as new
structures meeting the requirements of this chapter.
            i.    Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter if they are placed in any of the following areas and meet the criteria
listed as follows:
               A.    Individual lots or parcels of record.
               B.    Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds.
               C.    Existing condominium- type associations.
            ii.   Criteria for exempt recreational vehicles.
               A.   The vehicle must have a current license required for
highway use.
               B.   The vehicle must be highway ready, meaning on wheels or the
internal jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks.
               C.   No permanent structural type additions may be attached to
the vehicle.
               D.   The vehicle and associated use must be permissible in any
pre-existing, underlying zoning district.
               E.    Accessory structures are not permitted within the Floodway
District. Any accessory structure in the Flood Fringe District must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials and be securely anchored, meeting the
requirements applicable to manufactured homes in §
154.008 (E)(8)(b).
               F.   An accessory structure must constitute a minimal
investment.
            iii.    Recreational vehicles that are exempt in §
154.008 (E)(8)(c)(ii) lose this exemption when development occurs on the site
that exceeds a minimal investment for an accessory structure such as a garage
or storage building. The recreational vehicle and all accessory structures will
then be treated as new structures subject to the elevation and floodproofing
requirements of this chapter. No development or improvement on the parcel or
attachment to the recreational vehicle is allowed that would hinder the removal
of the vehicle should flooding occur.
            iv.   New commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds,
subdivisions or condominium associations, and the expansion of any similar
existing use exceeding five units or dwelling sites may be allowed subject to
the following:
               A.   On any new or replacement recreational vehicle site in the
Flood Fringe District, the recreational vehicle and its contents must be placed
on fill at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation and adequate road
access to the site must be provided in accordance with §
154.008 (E)(8)(b)(ii) of this chapter.
               B.   Any new or replacement recreational vehicle site located in
the Floodway District or as an alternative to (a) above in the Flood Fringe
District, may be allowed as a conditional use in accordance with the following
provisions and the provisions of §
154.008 (E)(11)(d) of this chapter.
                  1.    The applicant must submit an emergency plan for the
safe evacuation of all vehicles and people acceptable to the City Council, as
specified in §
154.008 (E)(8)(b)(ii). The plan must demonstrate that adequate time and
personnel exist to carry out an evacuation, and that the exemption provisions
of this chapter will be met; and
                  2.    All attendant sewage and water facilities for new or
replacement recreational vehicles must be protected or constructed so as to not
be impaired or contaminated during times of flooding in accordance with §
154.008 (E)(9)(c) of this chapter.
                  3.    Any fill placed in the floodway to meet the
requirements of this section must not increase the flood stage of the regional
(1% chance) flood.
      11.   Administration.
         (a)   Zoning Administrator. A Zoning Administrator or other official
designated by the City Council must administer and enforce this chapter.
         (b)   Permit requirements.
            i.   Permit required. A permit must be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator prior to conducting the following activities:
               A.   The erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation, or
alteration of any building, structure, or portion thereof. Normal maintenance
and repair also requires a permit if such work, separately or in conjunction
with other planned work, constitutes a substantial improvement as defined in
this chapter.
               B.   The use or change of use of a building, structure, or land.
               C.   The construction of a dam, fence, or on-site septic system,
although a permit is not required for a farm fence as defined in this chapter.
               D.   The change or extension of a nonconforming use.
               E.   The repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood,
fire, tornado, or any other source.
               F.   The placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the
storage of materials or equipment within the floodplain.
               G.    Relocation or alteration of a watercourse, unless a public
waters work permit has been issued.
               H.   Any other type of "development" as defined in this chapter.
            ii.   Application for permit. Permit applications must be submitted
to the Zoning Administrator on forms provided by the Zoning Administrator. The
permit application must include the following as applicable:
               A.   A site plan showing all pertinent dimensions, existing or
proposed buildings, structures, and significant natural features having an
influence on the permit.
               B.    Location of fill or storage of materials in relation to
the stream channel.
               C.    Copies of any required municipal, county, state or federal
permits or approvals.
               D.    Other relevant information requested by the Zoning
Administrator as necessary to property evaluate the permit application.
            iii.   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered, or
nonconforming use. No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in
any manner until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the
Zoning Administrator stating that the use of the building or land conforms to
the requirements of this chapter.
            iv.    Certification. The applicant is required to submit
certification by a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or
registered land surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Floodproofing
measures must be certified by a registered professional engineer or registered
architect.
            v.   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning Administrator must
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
floodplain. The Zoning Administrator must also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures and alterations or additions to structures are
floodproofed.
            vi.    Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before
authorizing any alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning
Administrator must notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied
for a permit to work in public waters pursuant to M.S. § 103G.245, this will
suffice as adequate notice. A copy of the notification must also be submitted
to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
            vii.   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or
decrease base flood elevations. As soon as is practicable, but not later than
six months after the date such supporting information becomes available, the
Zoning Administrator must notify FEMA of the changes by submitting a copy of
the relevant technical or scientific data.
         (c)   Variances.
            i.   Variance applications. An application for a variance to the
provisions of this section will be processed and reviewed in accordance with
applicable §
154.004 (D).
            ii.   Adherence to state floodplain management standards. A
variance must not allow a use that is not allowed in that district, permit a
lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood protection elevation
for the particular area, or permit standards lower than those required by state
law.
            iii.   Additional variance criteria. The following additional
variance criteria of the Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied:
               A.    Variances must not be issued by a community within any
designated regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge would result.
               B.    Variances may only be issued upon:
                  1.    A showing of good and sufficient cause.
                  2.    A determination that failure to grant the variance
would result in exceptional practical difficulty to the applicant.
                  3.    A determination that the granting of a variance will
not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
               C.    Variances may only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
            iv.   Flood insurance notice. The Zoning Administrator must notify
the applicant for a variance that:
               A.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below
the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
               B.    Such construction below the base or regional flood level
increases risks to life and property. Such notification must be maintained with
a record of all variance actions.
            v.   General considerations. The community may consider the
following factors in granting variances and imposing conditions on variances
and conditional uses in floodplains:
               A.   The potential danger to life and property due to increased
flood heights or velocities caused by encroachments;
               B.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
               C.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems, if any,
and the ability of these systems to minimize the potential for disease,
contamination and unsanitary conditions;
               D.   The susceptibility of any proposed use and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
               E.   The importance of the services to be provided by the
proposed use to the community;
               F.   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
               G.   The availability of viable alternative locations for the
proposed use that are not subject to flooding;
               H.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
               I.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive
Land Use Plan and flood plain management program for the area;
               J.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
               K.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site.
            vi.   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR). The Zoning Administrator must submit hearing notices for
proposed variances to the DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at least ten
days' notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S.
Mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
            vii.   Submittal of final decisions to the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR). A copy of all decisions granting variances must be forwarded
to the DNR within ten days of such action. The notice may be sent by electronic
mail or U.S. Mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
            viii. Record-keeping. The Zoning Administrator must maintain a
record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and
must report such variances in an annual or biennial report to the Administrator
of the National Flood Insurance Program, when requested by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
         (d)   Conditional uses.
            i.    Administrative review. An application for a conditional use
permit under the provisions of this section will be processed and reviewed in
accordance with §
154.004 (E)(1).
            ii.   Factors used in decision- making. In passing upon conditional
use applications, the City Council must consider all relevant factors specified
in other sections of this chapter, and those factors identified in §
154.008 (E)(8)(e) of this chapter.
            iii.   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. The City
Council may attach such conditions to the granting of conditional use permits
as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. Such conditions
may include, but are not limited to, the following:
               A.    Modification of waste treatment and water supply
facilities.
               B.    Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation.
               C.    Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
               D.    Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees, and other protective measures.
               E.    Floodproofing measures, in accordance with the State
Building Code and this chapter. The applicant must submit a plan or document
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that the
floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
            iv.   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR). The (designated body/community official) must submit hearing
notices for proposed conditional uses to the DNR sufficiently in advance to
provide at least ten days' notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by
electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
            v.   Submittal of final decisions to the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR). A copy of all decisions granting conditional uses must be
forwarded to the DNR within ten days of such action. The notice may be sent by
electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
      12.   Nonconformities; continuance of nonconformities. A use, structure,
or occupancy of land which was lawful before the passage or amendment of this
chapter but which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter may
be continued subject to the following conditions. Historic structures, as
defined in §
154.003  are subject to the provisions of items (a)-(e) as follows:
         (a)   A nonconforming use, structure, or occupancy must not be
expanded, changed, enlarged, or altered in a way that increases its
nonconformity. Expansion or enlargement of uses, structures or occupancies
within the Floodway District is prohibited.
         (b)   Any structural alteration or addition to a nonconforming
structure or nonconforming use which would result in increasing the flood
damage potential of that structure or use must be protected to the regulatory
flood protection elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or
floodproofing techniques (i.e., FP-1 thru FP-4 floodproofing classifications)
allowable in the State Building Code, except as further restricted in (c) - (g)
as follows.
         (c)   The cost of all structural alterations or additions to any
nonconforming structure over the life of the structure may not exceed 50% of
the market value of the structure unless the conditions of this section are
satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and additions must include
all costs such as construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all
manpower or labor. If the cost of all previous and proposed alterations and
additions exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure, then the structure
must meet the standards of §
154.008 (E)(8) of this chapter for new structures depending upon whether the
structure is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively.
         (d)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming
structure, is discontinued for more than one year, any future use of the
premises must conform to this chapter. The assessor must notify the Zoning
Administrator of instances of nonconformities that have been discontinued for a
period of more than one year.
         (e)   If any nonconformity is substantially damaged, as defined in §
154.003 , it may not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new uses or new
structures in §
154.008 (E)(5) or (6) will apply depending upon whether the use or structure is
in the Floodway or Flood Fringe, respectively.
         (f)   If any nonconforming use or structure experiences a repetitive
loss, as defined in §
154.003 , it must not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter.
         (g)   Any substantial improvement to a nonconforming structure
requires that the existing structure and any additions must meet the
requirements of §
154.008 (E)(5) or (6) of this chapter for new structures, depending upon
whether the structure is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District.
      13.   Penalties and enforcement.
         (a)   Violation constitutes a misdemeanor. Violation of the provisions
of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants
of variances or conditional uses) constitute a misdemeanor and will be
punishable as defined by law.
         (b)   Other lawful action. Nothing in this chapter restricts the City
of North Saint Paul from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation. If the responsible party does not
appropriately respond to the Zoning Administrator within the specified period
of time, each additional day that lapses will constitute an additional
violation of this chapter and will be prosecuted accordingly.
         (c)   Enforcement. Violations of the provisions of this chapter will
be investigated and resolved in accordance with the provisions of section(s)
(list relevant sections) of the zoning ordinance/code of the City of North
Saint Paul. In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning
Administrator and City Council may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including but not limited to prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The City of North Saint Paul must act in good
faith to enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to
the extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National
Flood Insurance Program.
      14.   Amendments.
         (a)   Floodplain designation; restrictions on removal. The floodplain
designation on the Official Zoning Map must not be removed from floodplain
areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error or that the area
has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special exceptions
to this rule may be permitted by the Commissioner of the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR) if the Commissioner determines that, through other measures,
lands are adequately protected for the intended use.
         (b)   Amendments require DNR approval. All amendments to this chapter
must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of the Department of
Natural Resources (DNR) prior to adoption. The Commissioner must approve the
amendment prior to community approval.
         (c)   Map revisions require ordinance amendments. The floodplain
district regulations must be amended to incorporate any revisions by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency to the floodplain maps adopted in §
154.008 (E)(3)(c).
(Ord. 739, passed 8-18-2015; Am. Ord. 745, passed 12-15-2015; Am. Ord. 799,
passed 7-20-2021; Am. Ord. 807, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 154.009 NONCONFORMITIES.
   This section does not prohibit the City of North St. Paul from enforcing an
ordinance that applies to adults-only bookstores, adults-only theaters, or
similar adults-only businesses.
   (A)   Continuation of legal non-conformities.  Except as otherwise provided
by law, any nonconformity may be continued per the following standards
including non-conforming uses (the lawful use or occupation of land or
premises), non-conforming structures, and non-conforming lots (as defined in
154.003). Non-conformities may not continue through expansion (except as in
division (C) "MU-3 zone expansion exception" which follows) but may be
continued through repair, replacement, restoration, maintenance, or
improvement, unless:
      1.   The nonconformity or occupancy is discontinued for a period of more
than one year; or
      2.   The nonconforming use is destroyed by fire or other peril to the
extent of greater than 50% of its estimated market value, as indicated in the
records of the county assessor at the time of damage and no building permit has
been applied for within 180 days of when the property is damaged. In this case:
         (a)   A municipality may impose reasonable conditions upon a zoning or
building permit in order to mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent
property or water body; and
         (b)   When a nonconforming structure in the Shoreland District with
less than 50% of the required setback from the water is destroyed by fire or
other peril to greater than 50% of its estimated market value, as indicated in
the records of the county assessor at the time of damage, the structure setback
may be increased if practicable and reasonable conditions are placed upon a
zoning or building permit to mitigate created impacts on the adjacent property
or water body.
   (B)   Subsequent use or occupancy. Any subsequent use or occupancy of the
land or premises shall be a conforming use or occupancy.
   (C)   MU-3 Zone Expansion exception. A building permit may be granted to a
nonconforming use in the MU-3 zone if all of the following are met:
      1.   The expansion of the use involves an expansion of no more than 10%
of the gross floor area of the building;
      2.   The modification of the use consists of an expansion amounting to no
more than 10% of the approved gross floor area;
      3.   When the expansion of the use is otherwise consistent with all other
sections of this chapter;
      4.   And, when such expansion of the use eliminates an adverse effect or
condition which is inconsistent with the MU-3 District or the approved plan for
the area, and/or when such modification is determined to result in an
improvement consistent with the objectives of the area and the total use of the
site, and/or when such modification would lead to a more rapid implementation
of the Comprehensive Plan and MU-3 District objectives while providing good
aesthetics and functionality during the interim (time period between the
nonconforming use and a conforming use of the property).
   (D)   Nuisances. In order to reasonably prevent and abate nuisances and to
protect the public health, welfare, or safety, nothing in this chapter shall
prevent the placing of a structure in safe conditions when said structure is
declared unsafe by the building codes and standards of the city.
   (E)   Non-conforming building or structure.
      1.   Non-conformities. Except as provided in this subsection, a non-
conforming building or structure shall not be added to, enlarged, or expanded
in any manner unless such additions and enlargements are made to conform with
all the requirements of the zoning district in which such a building or
structure is located.
      2.   Additions to an existing single-family or two-family dwelling with a
non- conforming front, side or rear lot line setback. An addition to a single-
family or two-family dwelling with a non-conforming front, side or rear
property line setback may be built with the same or reduced (smaller) non-
conforming setback without city approval of a variance provided:
         (a)   The building addition does not encroach further into the
required setback than the existing structure and the addition would have at
least a three-foot setback from the property line.
         (b)   The building addition's footprint must not exceed 50% of the
footprint of the principal structure in order to be approved administratively.
The city may approve an addition with a footprint that exceeds 50% of the
footprint of the principal structure by conditional use permit.
         (c)   The building addition meets all other applicable city code and
building code requirements.
(Ord. 739, passed 8-18-2015; Am. Ord. 848, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 154.010 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Development standards.  Development standards are established to
encourage a high standard of development by providing assurance that land uses
will be compatible. The standards are intended to prevent and eliminate
conditions which depreciate property values, which cause blight or are
detrimental to the environment. Before any building permit is approved, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the proposed use will conform to
the design and performance standards. The applicant or owner shall supply data
necessary to demonstrate such conformance. In order to assure compliance, the
city may require the owner or operator of any permitted use to have made such
investigations and/or tests as may be required to show adherence to the
performance standards.
      1.   Lot coverage and building setback. The maximum lot coverage shall be
determined by the design and development standards, including required open
space/plaza areas, traffic sight distance, buffering/berming features and
similar requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Residential setback averaging, front setback. Where at least 50% of
the front footage of any block is built up with principal structures, the
minimum front yard setback for new structures shall be the average setback of
the existing principal structures on the block face or the normal setback
requirement in the district, whichever is less, but no less than 20 feet.
      3.   Association and covenants.  A neighborhood association may be
required for some developments. Bylaws and covenants shall be provided as
required by this chapter. The association and covenants shall provide for use,
upkeep, maintenance and insurance for the common area and recreational
facilities, private streets (including snow plowing, sweeping and resurfacing
and associated lighting), monument sign and preservation of the open space.
      4.   Yard measurements and regulations.  Measurements shall be taken from
the nearest point of the building wall to the lot line in question.
      5.   Non-encroachments. The following shall not be encroachments on yard
setback requirements:
         (a)   Cornices, canopies, chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders,
sills, pilasters, lintels, ornamental features, eaves, gutters and the like,
provided they do not extend more than two feet into a yard, except awnings and
canopies, if located within the boundaries of the Downtown Design Manual, are
subject to the provisions of the Downtown Design Manual.
         (b)   Bays and bay windows not to exceed an area of more than 20
square feet may extend into a front or rear yard four and one-half feet and
into a side yard no more than two feet, provided the encroachment is no closer
than four feet from all lot lines.
         (c)   In rear yards: balconies, breezeways, and detached outdoor
recreation shelters.
         (d)   In all zoning districts:
            i.   Decks, terraces, steps, stoops, and landings. Decks, terraces,
steps, stoops and exterior landings are permitted in a front, side or rear
yard, provided they meet the following do not extend more than six feet into a
yard setback, are no closer than four feet to a property line and meeting all
building code requirements. The building code may require additional setbacks
for steps, stoops, and landings if they are built out of combustible materials.
            ii.   Ramps and other devices in compliance with the ADA. Uncovered
ramps and other devices for access to buildings and sites by disabled persons
in compliance with the American Disabilities Act (ADA) may encroach into any
required front, side or rear setback provided all building code requirements
are met. Ramps over 30 inches in height and/or physically attached to a
structure require a building permit issued by the city. The Building Code may
require additional setbacks for ramps that are built out of combustible
materials. Ramps under 30 inches in height and not attached to a structure only
require a zoning permit issued by the city. All such access ramps are not
permitted to cross property lines and may not be placed in public rights-of-
ways or in drainage and utility easements.
            iii.   Window wells. Egress window wells may encroach up to three
feet into a required or actual front, side or rear yard setback, subject to
review and approval by the Building Official. Window wells are not permitted to
cross property lines and may not be placed in public drainage and utility
easements.
         (e)   In the R-1, R-2 and R-3 Residential zoning districts:
            i.   Patios. Patios are paved outdoor areas of the ground usually
adjoining a dwelling designed, established and/or installed to provide a space
for outdoor living. Uncovered concrete and paver patios built flush at grade
level shall have at least a three-foot setback from the side or rear property
line and shall be built to ensure that drainage is directed to a public way
(toward the street or alley) and so the drainage does not adversely affect a
neighboring property. In no instance shall a patio cover more than one-half of
the rear yard. Uncovered concrete and paver patios that are built flush at
grade also may encroach up to six feet into any required or actual front yard.
            ii.   Awnings. Fixed or permanent awnings attached to a structure
may encroach three feet into a required front, side or rear setback, provided
the front and rear setbacks of not less than 22 feet and a side setback of not
less than three feet are maintained. An awning may encroach up to six feet into
a required front or rear setback and up to three feet into a required side
setback when placed over steps, stoops or an exterior landing, provided the
encroachment shall not exceed eight feet in width along the wall plane and the
front and rear setbacks of not less than 20 feet and a side setback of not less
than three feet shall be maintained.
            iii.   Arbors and trellises. Arbors, trellises or other growing
support structures that do not exceed 20 square feet in area may be located in
a required setback area or in actual front, side or rear yard. Such
encroachments shall not exceed nine feet in height. Both the sides and the roof
of these structures must be at least 50% open, or, if latticework is used,
shall be less than 60% opaque. Such structures shall not be constructed out of
a razor wire, chain link, chicken wire, railroad ties, utility poles, plywood,
or other similar materials. Detached arbors and trellises larger than what are
described above must comply with the setback and height requirements for a
detached accessory building.
            iv.    Permanently installed outdoor fireplaces, grills and
barbeques. Permanently installed outdoor fireplaces, grills and barbeques are
not permitted within the front yard and shall be located only in side and rear
yards. Such features shall not encroach into the required side setbacks and may
encroach up to ten feet into the required rear setback provided that a rear
setback of not less than 15 feet shall be maintained. In instances where the
side or rear yard abuts a public street or alley, outdoor fireplaces, grills
and barbeques shall maintain a setback of not less than the required front yard
setback. In all cases, fireplaces, grills and barbeques are not permitted to
cross property lines and may not be placed in public drainage and utility
easements.
            v.   Air conditioning equipment. Air conditioning equipment may
encroach up to five feet into a required or actual side or rear yard provided
it does not cross the property line, may not be placed in public drainage and
utility easements and if the placement will not negatively affect grading and
drainage. Air conditioning equipment may encroach five feet into any required
front yard, provided a front setback of not less than 15 feet is maintained.
The owner shall screen from view from the public street air conditioning
equipment encroaching into a front yard setback with the use of landscaping, a
fence, or a wall.
            vi.   Standby or permanent generators. Property owners may locate
standby or permanent generators only in side or rear yards subject to the
following conditions:
               A.   The units must be kept at least five feet away from
property lines, buildings and designated means egress systems (stairs, ramps,
window wells).
               B.   The installation shall meet all NFPA 110 and NFPA 37
(National Fire Prevention Association) requirements, as may be amended.
               C.   The placement of the generator shall verify that all
potential sources of water intrusion such as sprinklers, roof run-off, down
spouts and sump pump discharge is directed away from the generator.
               D.   The placement of the generator shall take into
consideration the location of doors, windows and other openings on adjoining
properties so as to not create a nuisance from noise and exhaust.
               E.   The installation of a standby or permanent generator
requires an electrical permit and a mechanical permit.
            vii.   Covered but open porches. Covered but open porches without
walls, doors, windows or screens may encroach six feet into any required front
setback, provided that a front setback of not less than 15 feet is maintained.
No covered but open porch shall encroach into a required side or rear yard
setback. Permitted encroachments under this section shall be constructed with
high-quality durable materials that are consistent with the materials on the
front of the principal structure and shall be consistent with the zoning
regulations for the district. If unfinished wood components are used to
construct the open porch, the owner or contractor must stain, paint, or seal
all exposed wood surfaces.
      6.   Residential enclosed pet area. A fenced-in area "kennel" for a pet
shall not be located between a house and an interior side lot line.
      7.   Outdoor lighting. All outdoor lighting shall be directed away from
adjoining property and from the street unless globe lighting is used. Bare
incandescent light bulbs shall not be permitted in view of adjacent property or
the public right-of-way, except decorative holiday lights having 7.5 watts or
less. No exterior lighting shall exceed 0.4 foot candles at the lot line. Yard
lights shall not be closer than five feet from the property line, provided the
direct source of light is not visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent
residential property.
      8.   Public waters. No public water shall be used, filled, partially
filled, dredged, altered, graded or otherwise disturbed without a permit from
the city, watershed district and the state as may be required.
      9.   Utility installations. All on site utility installations shall be
placed underground.
      10.   Grading. The moving of soil in an area in excess of 5,000 square
feet or an amount in excess of 50 cubic yards requires a grading permit unless
such activity is part of an approved building permit.
      11.   Fences and walls.
         (a)   Regulations applicable to all fences.
            i.   Permit required.
               A.   A fence permit shall be obtained prior to the erection,
construction, alteration, or moving of a fence within the city.
               B.   A contractor shall be considered the agent of the owner of
the property on which the contractor erects, alters, or moves a fence.
               C.   A permit shall not be required for athletic field fencing
on city-owned parkland.
            ii.   Fence height. Fence height shall be measured from the normal
grade adjacent to the fence line to the highest point of the tallest fence
panel.
            iii.   Location.
               A.    Fences and walls may be erected, placed, or maintained in
any yard along or adjacent to a lot line in accordance with the requirements of
this section. The owner shall be responsible for properly locating all property
lines before construction of any fence.
               B.   A three-foot clear space shall be maintained around the
circumference of fire hydrants, except as otherwise required or approved.
Unobstructed access to fire hydrants shall be maintained at all times.
               C.   A three-foot clear space shall be maintained around utility
boxes, except as otherwise required or approved. In certain circumstances, a
radius of up to eight feet may be required around utility boxes as determined
by the Utility Director.
               D.    Fences and walls shall comply with the vision clearance
triangle requirements of § 154.010(F)(8)(a).
            iv.   Utilities and easements.
               A.   The property owner is responsible for verifying that no
conflicts exist with utilities prior to installation of fencing.
               B.   All fences located in recorded easements are the sole risk
of the property owner. The cost of any removal, relocation, or replacement of
said structures caused by any activity permitted in said easements is the sole
responsibility of the property owner.
               C.   If located within a drainage easement, the fence shall not
obstruct the free flow of water.
            v.    Construction and maintenance. Every fence shall be
constructed in a workmanlike manner of substantial materials widely accepted in
the fencing industry and reasonably suited for the purpose for which the fence
is intended.
         (b)   Regulations for residential fences.
            i.   Height.
               A.    Fences and walls shall not exceed a height of seven feet
in rear or side yards.
               B.    Fences and walls within the front yard shall not exceed a
height of four feet. For the purpose of fencing, the front yard shall extend
from the closest point of the principal structure toward the front property
line, or shall extend from a 25-foot front setback line toward the front
property line, whichever is the shorter distance.
            ii.   Materials.
               A.    Prohibited materials include chicken wire, barbed wire,
plastic webbing or netting, fences made of makeshift, flimsy materials or other
materials which are made from paper, twine, rope, tin, and the like.
               B.    Fences must be installed so that the more finished side
faces the adjacent property. If the fence has posts on one side, the posts
shall be placed on the inside side of the fence.
            iii.    Construction and maintenance.
               A.   No fence may be connected to that of a neighbor’s unless
the owner of the adjoining property agrees, in writing, that the fence may be
connected. This agreement shall be submitted at the time of zoning permit
application.
               B.   All fences must be kept in good repair and appearance on
both sides of the fence by its owner.
               C.   The property owner is responsible for maintaining the area
between the property line and the owner’s fence.
         (c)   Regulations for non-residential fences.
            i.   Height.
               A.    Fences and walls shall not exceed a height of eight feet
without approval by the Zoning Administrator. Fences taller than eight feet may
only be permitted for the purpose of screening or security as determined by the
Zoning Administrator and shall be limited to ten feet in height. The intent of
such screening fence is to block the view of non-residential site elements
(such as mechanical equipment, outdoor storage, and the like) from residential
property.
            ii.   Materials.
               A.    Prohibited materials include chicken wire, plastic webbing
or netting, fences made of makeshift, flimsy materials or other materials which
are made from paper, twine, rope, tin, and the like.
               B.   No fence shall be designed to electrically shock.
               C.    Barbed wire may be installed on nonresidential property in
the MU-3 district if the devices securing the barbed wire to the fence are
eight feet above the ground and project toward the fenced property and away
from any public area.
         (d)   Temporary or seasonal fences. Temporary or seasonal fences, such
as snow fences, erosion control fences, fences to protect newly seeded areas,
and the like, are allowed without a permit provided:
            i.   No such fence may be left in place for more than six months
without written city approval.
            ii.   Any such fence must be removed within 15 days of the city
providing written notice to the landowner that the city has determined the
fence no longer serves its originally intended, temporary or seasonal purpose.
         (e)   Nonconforming fences. Any fence existing on the effective date
of this chapter and not in conformance with this section may be maintained, but
no alteration, modification, or improvement of said fence shall occur, unless
installed in conformance with this section.
      12.   Storage of trash.
         (a)   Residential uses. There shall be no front yard storage of trash
or trash containers except in the 24 hour period prior to a scheduled pickup in
residential districts.
         (b)   Nonresidential uses. Storage of trash in a principal building or
in an accessory building shall be allowed.
      13.   Noise. The source sound level requirements shall apply at the
property or zoning lines. Measurements may be made at any location for
evaluation purposes.
         (a)   The source sound levels as stated below shall be the highest
source levels permitted, whether or not such sound source is in the zoning
district in question.
            i.   Day (7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.) - an L50 of 60 dBA and an L10 of
65 dBA.
            ii.   Night (10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.) - an L50 of 50 dBA and an L10
of 55 dBA.
         (b)   All sound levels originating in any development or property
which contains one or more buildings and which is without property lines for
each building shall not exceed the source requirements measured at the area of
human activity, or if this is ill-defined, at any point on a line, all of whose
points are equidistant from any two buildings.
         (c)   Noise sources shall reduce sound levels of noise in proportion
to their contribution when the cumulative effect results in a violation and no
specific noise source can be identified as a violation.
         (d)   Sound levels resulting from travel of motor vehicles on state
and county highways and transit vehicles are exempt from these noise source
requirements but no other sections of the city code relating to motor vehicles
and similar sources.
      14.   Odors. Odors which are associated with toxic air pollution are
regulated by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. Other odors are subject to
the nuisance provisions of the city's code.
      15.   Smoke, fumes, gases, dust and other emissions. Such emissions must
meet the regulations of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. Limits on the
emission of dust must meet state and federal regulations. Avoidable amounts of
dust to become airborne is not allowed.
      16.   Hazards. Every operation shall be carried on with reasonable
precautions against fire and explosion hazards.
      17.   Glare. Glare, whether direct or reflected, such as from floodlights
or high temperature processes and as differentiated from general illumination
shall not be visible at any property line.
      18.   Vibration. Vibration shall not be discernible at any property line
to the human sense of feeling. Additionally, no one shall produce light glare,
noise, odor or vibration that will in any way have an objectionable effect upon
adjacent or nearby residential properties.
      19.   Inoperable vehicles or motor vehicle parts. No inoperable motor
vehicle, or motor vehicle parts, shall be kept on any lot or yard for a period
longer than one week without a permit from the City Manager.
      20.   Pedestrian circulation. Sidewalks or other designated pedestrian
ways shall be clearly indicated and provided for the safety of pedestrians
within nonresidential and mixed-use districts.
      21.   Sidewalks and trails. Complete plans shall be provided for proposed
sidewalks and trails to serve parking, recreation and service areas within
developments and to link to the city's system.
      22.   Underground parking. When appropriate, buildings are encouraged to
provide for inside, usually underground, parking at a ratio of at least one
space per dwelling unit within mixed-use districts.
      23.   Bicycle storage. When appropriate, buildings are encouraged to
provide for bicycle storage in the building storage room or similar place of at
least a ratio of one space per dwelling unit within mixed-use districts.
      24.   Transit. Developments are to take into account the needs for
transit and the transit rider and related pedestrian ways. Development of
transit facilities and transit plazas are to be furnished on a cooperative
basis with participation from property owners, the city and metro transit. New
express transit is proposed on Highway 36 with on-line stop(s) with the
possibility of a transit station between/near Margaret Street and McKnight
Road.
      25.   Loading docks. All loading docks shall be screened from view of
adjacent property where abutting property is used or intended to be used for
commercial or residential purposes. Access to such loading areas shall be
adequate to provide proper maneuverability of the anticipated traffic, and such
access shall not conflict with pedestrian circulation patterns and other uses
of the property in the area. New loading docks shall be enclosed.
   (B)   Usable open space.
      1.   Residential.
         (a)   Apartment. Each lot shall contain at least 250 square feet for
each apartment unit.
         (b)   Multiple family. Each lot shall contain at least 250 square feet
of usable open space shall be provided for each unit.
         (c)   Senior housing. Each lot shall contain at least 150 square feet
of usable open space per resident.
         (d)   Townhouse. Each lot shall contain at least 25% of each
individual lot area as usable open space.
         (e)   Cottage developments. Twenty-five percent of the site within a
minimum of one contiguous area at least 3,000 square feet in size is required.
      2.   Nonresidential.
         (a)   Day nurseries and nursery schools. Shall provide 40 square feet
of outside play space per pupil and such space shall be adequately fenced
according to the provisions of § 154.010(A)(11).
         (b)    Office/commercial/industrial. Each lot shall contain usable
open space/plazas and shall not be less than 5% of the total lot area.
   (C)   Density transfer. Transferring density may be allowed when the purpose
and result provide:
      1.   Preservation of natural features and site amenities, such as wooded
areas, slopes, prairie vegetation and protection of desirable views;
      2.   Dedication of more than 11% of the land for usable public park or
public sites, excluding wetlands;
      3.   Dedication to the city, or a public trust acceptable to the city, of
land designated as park or preservation consistent with the city's
Comprehensive Plan or approved area plans;
      4.   Such transfer shall be guaranteed through execution of appropriate
covenants approved by the City Council, which shall specify the density allowed
to be transferred and the conditions under which the transfer is being allowed.
   (D)   Supplemental regulations. Supplemental regulations are established to
address the unique characteristics of certain land uses. The standards and
conditions listed for land uses in this chapter are applicable to permitted,
conditional, and interim use permits, as specified for each zoning district,
unless otherwise noted.
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures.
         (a)   Size. The total square feet of an accessory building shall not
exceed 10% of the lot area, and in no case shall it exceed 1,000 square feet of
gross floor area. The sum of all square footage for attached garages and
detached garages shall not equal or exceed the finished livable floor area of
the footprint (ground floor) of the principal structure to which it is an
accessory.
         (b)   Height. Accessory buildings shall not exceed the height of the
principal building. In no case, shall an accessory building exceed 15 feet in
height or in the case of an accessory dwelling unit, then 20 feet shall be the
maximum height allowed.
         (c)   Location. A detached garage or other accessory buildings shall
be located in the side or rear yard.
         (d)   Setbacks. Detached garages or other accessory buildings,
including storage sheds, shall be setback a minimum of three feet from side and
rear property lines or up to an easement line, but not on it, whichever is
greater; and six feet from the principal structure. An accessory building shall
be considered as part of a principal building if it is located less than six
feet from the principal building and must meet the setbacks of the principal
building.
         (e)   Corner lot. A detached garage or other accessory buildings shall
not be located closer than 20 feet to the side lot line adjacent to the street.
         (f)   Number of structures. No more than two accessory buildings shall
be constructed on a lot. The second accessory building shall not exceed 200
square feet. On lots with a detached garage, two additional accessory buildings
are permitted, neither of which exceed 200 square feet, subject to the
district’s lot coverage requirements.
         (g)   Time of construction. No accessory building or structure shall
be constructed on any lot prior to the time of construction of the principal
building to which it is accessory.
         (h)   Design. The design shall be consistent with the primary
building; exterior materials shall be a product that is similar, but not
limited to identical product, in terms of appearance, color, and durability.
         (i)   Multi-family uses. Common walls for accessory buildings may be
required where common walls will eliminate unsightly and hazardous areas.
      2.   Accessory dwelling unit.
         (a)   No more than one accessory dwelling unit may be located on a
lot. No accessory dwelling unit shall be located on an R-1 zoned lot containing
a two-family dwelling.
         (b)   The lot shall have a minimum area of 5,000 square feet.
         (c)   The lot shall have a minimum width equal to the underlying
zoning district requirement.
         (d)   An attached accessory dwelling unit shall be part of the
principal dwelling on the same lot for the purpose of the bulk requirements of
the district. Any secondary dwelling unit connected to the principal dwelling
is considered attached. An attached accessory dwelling unit must meet the
following:
            i.   The associated principal dwelling unit must continue to meet
minimum floor area requirements.
            ii.   Minimum size of the accessory dwelling unit shall be 300
square feet with a maximum size of 900 square feet.
         (e)   A detached accessory dwelling unit shall be located within a
freestanding structure or above a detached garage of the principal dwelling on
the same lot. The minimum size of the detached accessory dwelling unit shall be
300 square feet with a maximum size of 900 square feet.
         (f)   A detached accessory dwelling unit shall be setback a minimum of
ten feet from side and rear property lines or up to an easement line, but not
on it whichever is greater.
         (g)   The entryway to the accessory dwelling unit shall be connected
by a paved route, to include driveways or sidewalks, to a street frontage .
         (h)   The accessory dwelling unit shall have a separate entrance from
the principal dwelling.
         (i)   Home occupations. Level 1 and Level 2 home occupations are
allowed within an accessory dwelling unit subject to provisions of § 154.010
(D)19., provided the home occupation is incidental and secondary to the
accessory dwelling unit. The home occupation within the accessory dwelling unit
shall not be in addition to more than one home occupation within the principal
dwelling. Level 3 home occupations are not allowed within accessory dwelling
units.
      3.   Adult uses.
         (a)   Such establishments shall be licensed.
         (b)   An adult use shall not be allowed within 1,000 feet of another
existing adult use.
         (c)   An adult use shall not be located within 500 feet of any
residential district or property in a PUD that is or projected to include
residential uses.
         (d)   An adult use shall not be located within 600 feet from the
building to an existing school, religious institution, group day care facility
or nursery school.
         (e)   An adult use shall not sell or dispense 3.2% malt liquor or
intoxicating liquors, nor shall it be located within 400 feet of a building,
which contains a business that sells or dispenses 3.2% malt liquor or
intoxicating liquors.
         (f)   No adult use establishment shall engage in any activity or
conduct or permit any other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or
about the adult use establishment which is prohibited by any ordinance of the
City of North St. Paul, the laws of the State of Minnesota or the United States
of America. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize or permit
conduct which is prohibited or regulated by other statutes or ordinances,
including but not limited to statutes or ordinances prohibiting the exhibition,
sale or distribution of obscene material generally or the exhibition, sale or
distribution of specified material to minors.
         (g)   No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits
persons on outside property not approved for adult use to perceive or observe
any materials depicting, describing or related to "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas" by any visual or auditory media, including
displays, decorations, signs, show windows, sound transmissions or other means;
         (h)   All adult uses shall prominently display a sign located within
two feet of the door-opening device at the entrance of the adult-use
establishment or section of the establishment devoted to adult books or
materials which states: "This business sells or displays material containing
adult themes. Persons under 18 years of age shall not enter." Said sign shall
have letters at least one inch and no more than two inches high;
         (i)   No person under the age of 18 shall be permitted access to
material displayed or offered for sale or rent by an adult-use establishment;
         (j)   Adult mini-theaters are prohibited.
         (k)   The distance requirement shall be measured along a straight line
from the nearest property lines of each use.
      4.   Animal: boarding facility, kennel, shelter, day care, and grooming
(commercial).
         (a)   Outdoor dog runs or exercise pens shall be located at least 200
feet from a residential use or district.
         (b)   Any outdoor portion of an animal boarding facility, kennel,
shelter, daycare, or grooming facility shall be screened from view from
adjacent property by a solid fence, hedge or similar plant material not to
exceed seven feet in height. Fences shall adhere to the provisions of § 154.010
(A)(11).
         (c)   Facility owners shall submit written operating procedures, such
as those recommended by the American Boarding and Kennel Association (ABKA) or
the American Kennel Club (AKC). Such procedures, which shall be followed for
the life of the business, must address the identification and correction of
animal behavior that impacts surrounding uses, including excessive barking.
      5.   Assisted living facility and/or memory care facility.
         (a)   An appropriate transition area between the use and adjacent
property may be required, using landscaping, screening, and other site
improvements consistent with the character of the neighborhood. The owner shall
submit a Management Plan for the facility and a floor plan showing sleeping
areas, emergency exits and bathrooms.
      6.   Automobile body shop or automobile repair station.
         (a)   Oils and grease. Make adequate provision for inside storage of
all new and used petroleum products and other products, liquids or chemicals
used in the operation.
         (b)   Inoperable vehicles. No inoperable vehicle shall be kept on the
site longer than 45 days.
         (c)   Vehicle sales. The site shall not be used to sell vehicles
unless a conditional use permit authorizing such use/sales has been granted.
         (d)   Fencing. Fencing may be required along with additional
landscaping to screen the view of the use from adjacent properties.
      7.   Automobile sales and rental.
         (a)   The use shall not sell or trade exclusively in used merchandise,
but shall have on the site at least 20% of its stock in new, unused vehicles.
         (b)   The sales lot and principal building shall be on one contiguous
site.
         (c)   A solid fence or wall and hedges or similar plant type of seven
feet in height shall be erected and at least a five foot wide landscaped strip
shall be provided along all property lines of the site to be used for the sales
lot which abut residential districts. Fences shall adhere to the provisions of
§ 154.010(A)(11).
         (d)   All paved areas shall be separated from all landscaped areas by
concrete box curbs extending at least six inches in height above and below
grade.
         (e)   The outside sales and display area shall not exceed four square
feet for every one square foot of the principal building on the site.
      8.   Automotive service station/convenience store.
         (a)   Lot size. A service station lot size site shall have a minimum
of 35,000 square feet, and the street footage shall be not less than 100 feet.
         (b)   Setbacks. No building, structure, canopy, gasoline pump, or
storage tank shall be located within 25 feet of a residential zoning district.
         (c)   Pump islands. All pump islands, air dispensers and other service
devices shall be installed at least 12 feet from the required setback yard
line, and no display, servicing of vehicles, parking or dispensing of gasoline
shall take place within the required yard setback. On sites where pump islands
have been constructed at the required yard line, a landscaped area of eight
feet will be installed in the required yard.
         (d)   Curbs. A concrete box curb extending not less than six inches
above and below grade shall be located along all lot lines abutting a street
and along the setback lines, except at approved ingress and egress points and
along the outside edge of all driveways.
         (e)   Drainage. There shall be adequate drainage of the surface of the
parking or paved area to a public storm sewer or to other approved storm water
facilities. Plans for surfacing and drainage of all parking lots for 20 spaces
or more or paved areas of 6,000 square feet or more shall be approved by the
city.
         (f)   Fence. If the property abuts a residential use, a fence that is
at least 90% opaque shall be constructed in accordance with the regulations of
§ 154.010(A)(11). Application of this provision shall not require a fence
within the required front yard.
         (g)   Entire site surfaces. The entire site other than that taken up
by structure or landscaping
and shall be surfaced with a dustless all weather material capable of carrying
a load of 2,000 pounds per square foot. (Normally a two inch blacktop surfacing
on a four inch base or five inches or Portland cement will meet this
requirement.)
         (h)   Outside sale or display. No outside sale or display shall be
permitted except gasoline and other goods consumed in the normal operation of a
car limited to the following kinds of products: oil, gasoline and oil
additives, windshield cleaner, windshield wipers, tires and batteries. No
products shall be sold or displayed in any required yard, nor shall the total
display area occupy more than 150 square feet in area or be more than five feet
in height. No other vehicular parts and non-automobile oriented goods shall be
displayed or sold outside, nor shall any automotive service station site be
used for the storage and sale or rental of automobiles, trucks, campers, boats,
trailers, unlicensed or partially dismantled vehicles or similar vehicles and
products, unless a permit under this chapter is approved.
         (i)   Canopies. Any canopy and canopy support system shall be
constructed using architectural design and materials that are compatible with
the principal structure.
         (j)   Public address system. No public address system shall be audible
from any property located in a residential district.
         (k)   Trash or junk materials. No trash or junk materials shall be
stored outside unless completely screened from view and stored in a closed
metal container; however, such storage shall not take place within the required
setback area.
      9.   Bank, financial institutions.
         (a)   The drive-in service shall be completely integrated into the
principal building, shall not be an appendage to it and shall use the same
quality materials as the principal building.
         (b)   Stacking area for the drive-in shall be subordinate to the
primary access for vehicles and pedestrians.
      10.   Bed and breakfast establishment.
         (a)   A maximum of four rooms shall be rented.
         (b)   The establishment shall have a valid permit from the Health
Department.
         (c)   The only meal that may be served is breakfast to registered
guests.
         (d)   No establishment within a residential district shall be located
within 500 feet of any other such establishment, measured along a straight line
from the nearest property lines of each use.
         (e)   Length of stay shall not exceed 21 consecutive days for each
registered guest.
      11.   Bulk storage (liquid). 
         (a)   If allowed as an accessory use to a principal use, all existing
above ground liquid (oil, gasoline, fertilizer, chemicals and similar
materials) storage tanks or structures having a capacity in excess of 300
gallons shall be inspected by the city. The Council may require diking around
said tanks or structures, suitably sealed to hold a leakage capacity equal to
115% of the capacity of the tank or structure. Any existing tank or structure
that, in the opinion of the city, constitutes a hazard to the public health or
safety shall discontinue operations, and if said conditions or structures
hereafter erected, constructed or stored shall be inspected by the city in
order to assure against fire, explosion, water contamination and other hazards.
Special requirements may be required by the city in the case of storage of
mobile tanks containing such liquids.
      12.   Car wash.
         (a)   Parking. A minimum 35 foot wide landscaped yard shall be
required and maintained between any public street right-of-way and stacking
areas or parking lots (including maneuvering area). A
minimum side and rear landscaped yard of 15 feet shall be maintained between
the parking lot and any lot line adjacent to commercial, industrial, or
residential use.
         (b)   Screening. Solid screening shall be erected and maintained
alongside rear yards. If the property abuts a residential use, a fence shall be
constructed in accordance with the regulations of § 154.010(A)(11). The
screening required by this section shall consist of a solid fence or wall
adhering to the provisions of § 154.010(A)(11), or equivalent visual barrier,
including plantings, as required and approved by the city. Vacuuming facilities
shall not be located along public streets and shall be completely screened from
adjacent residential property.
         (c)   Curbs. Interior curbs shall be constructed within the property
lines to separate driving and parking surfaces from landscaped areas. Interior
curbs required by this section shall be a normal box curb extending six inches
above and below the grade.
         (d)   Surfacing. The entire site on which the car wash is located
other than devoted to buildings and structures and landscaped areas shall be
paved, blacktopped or dustless material and maintained to control dust,
drainage and such paving or blacktopping shall be subject to approval by the
city.
      13.   Communication structures.
         (a)   Residential districts. Satellite dishes, antennae and similar
devices over three feet in width, length or diameter shall not be allowed in
the required front yard nor within 12 feet of the side lot line or rear lot
line. Amateur radio support structures (towers) shall not exceed a height above
ground level of 70 feet. They shall be mounted on the roof of a dwelling or
other building located in the rear yard unless there is not sufficient space to
erect them in those locations. They shall be installed in accordance with the
instructions furnished by the manufacturer of that tower model. Because of the
experimental nature of the amateur radio service, antennas mounted on a tower
may be modified and changed at any time so long as the published allowable load
on the tower is not exceeded and the structure of the tower remains in
accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
         (b)   Mixed-use districts.
            i.   Location.
               A.   The site shall be screened from the public by visual/
physical barriers: berms, trees and the like so as to be visually unobtrusive.
               B.   Not located closer than 250 feet from residential
structures.
               C.   The tower on any antenna shall not be located closer than a
minimum of one and one-half times its collapse radius from all property lines
of the site on which it is located.
               D.   No freestanding tower or antenna shall be closer than one
and one-half mile from another free- standing tower or antenna.
            ii.   Guy wires. Guy wires are prohibited.
            iii.   Height. The height shall not exceed 100 feet.
            iv.   Structure. All buildings shall meet architectural control
provisions.
            v.    Noninterference. The facility and operator of the facility
shall not interfere with local television, local radio or other forms of local
communication. A noninterference agreement shall be required as a condition of
approval.
            vi.   Signs. Signs are not allowed on the tower or antenna, except
information signs required by the state or federal government.
            vii.   Lighting. Lighting of the tower or antenna is prohibited
except that which is required to meet a Federal Aviation Agency or state
requirement.
            viii.   Design. Towers and antennae may be allowed on buildings if
integrated into the design of the building, or, if less than 20 feet high, they
may be located on a rooftop having parapets or other features which screen a
portion of the line of site view of the tower or the antenna. An antenna may be
located inside a belfry, cupola or similar structure. Freestanding towers or
antennae must be a monopole design.
            ix.   Structural standards. The structural integrity of the
facility must be approved by a licensed and qualified structural engineer, and
it must meet all structural standards of the Uniform Building Code and
standards of all other agencies having review power for the structure.
            x.    Cooperative or joint use.
               A.   To reduce clutter and to protect community aesthetics, an
applicant must:
                  1.    Use an existing tower, antenna or structure that can
reasonably serve as a site/facility for the applicant or provide full
documentation as to why such other facilities cannot be used.
                  2.    Allow the requested facility to be a co-location and
enter into an agreement with the city allowing such use.
               B.   For joint use, the facility shall be designed structurally,
electrically and in all other respects to accommodate other comparable
facilities for at least two other users.
            xi.   Removal. Co-location agreements shall provide for removal of
unused or obsolete facilities no less than six months after being discontinued
unless the facility is on city property, in which case the facilities and all
its appurtenances shall be removed in accordance with the provisions of the
lease.
            xii.   City property facilities. The city may consider allowing its
property and structures to be used for communication towers and antennae, but
only when:
               A.   The use will not result in the increase of risk of
denigrating the city's facility or the service provided at the facility, for
example, supply residents and businesses with electricity, water, police and
fire protection, park open space and recreation or other services.
               B.    There is sufficient room on an existing structure or on
ground to accommodate the facility.
               C.   The facility will not be harmful to those working or
present in the area.
               D.   The use and facilities are compatible with the city's use
and use of adjacent property.
               E.   The tower or antenna will not increase the city
maintenance, operating or capital cost, nor will it increase the city's risk of
liability.
               F.   The tower and antenna will not have an adverse impact on
the surrounding property.
               G.   The proponent/applicant is willing to enter into a lease
agreement with the city which is at least equitable for the city, considering
comparable rates, risks, potential expenses, nuisance factors and other
relevant consideration.
               H.   The applicant provides the city with liability insurance in
an amount specified by the city and a letter of credit or other security deemed
appropriate by the city to cover site landscaping and related improvements and
removal of the tower and antenna.
               I.   Any violation of this section or the agreement that could
endanger the health or safety of the public is cause for the city to take
action to remedy the condition.
      14.   Day care center, day nursery.
         (a)   If the property abuts a residential use, a fence shall be
constructed in accordance with the regulations of § 154.010(A)(11).
      15.   Drive-in or self-service business. 
         (a)   Any drive-in or self-service type business serving food or
beverages shall also provide, in addition to vehicular service areas, in-door
food and beverage service seating area.
         (b)   The hours of operation shall be a condition for the granting of
any drive-in business use.
      16.   Essential service structure, including but not limited to buildings
such as telephone exchange substations, booster or pressure regulating
stations, wells and pumping stations and elevated tanks.
         (a)   To the extent appropriate and possible the site and building
shall meet the standards for a single-family detached dwelling.
      17.   Garden center or greenhouse, nursery.
         (a)   In the MU-1 District, there shall be no exterior storage of bulk
materials such as dirt, sand, gravel and building materials.
         (b)   In all other districts, bulk materials shall not be stored
within the front yard setback and shall meet standards for outdoor storage and
display.
      18.   Golf course.
         (a)   Club houses and maintenance buildings shall be located a minimum
of 300 feet from any residential district.
      19.   Home occupation.
         (a)   Purpose. The city establishes the standards and procedures
herein for home occupations to permit the conduct of home occupation activities
while preserving the character of residential neighborhoods, protecting the
property rights of neighbors, promoting small businesses, and protecting the
health, safety, and welfare of those neighborhoods.
         (b)   A property owner may only establish and conduct a home
occupation in accordance with this division.
         (c)   Level 1 home occupations.Level 1 home occupations are those that
have no visible neighborhood impacts, such as signage, no customers or clients
coming to the home and no external building or site alterations. Level 1 home
occupations are permitted by right and do not require a home occupation permit
and are subject to all performance standards listed in this ordinance. Level 1
home occupations may include:
            i.    Professionals that work from home.
         (d)   Level 2 home occupations. Level 2 home occupations are those
that have no potential neighborhood impacts except for signage, customer visits
and parking areas in conformance with the standards listed in division (D)19.
(g) below. Level 2 home occupations are a permitted use that require the
issuance of an administrative home occupation permit by the city. The city
shall issue these permits subject to no more than two customers on site at any
one time and the business operator following the standards in division (D)1.9
(g) below. Level 2 home occupations may include, but are not strictly limited
to:
            i.    Dressmaking and tailoring;
            ii.   Barber shops;
            iii.   Beauty shops;
            iv.    Professional offices such as legal, accounting, insurance or
computer technician; and
            v.   Tutoring, musical, dance, voice and other instructions that
consist of no more than two unrelated pupils at a time.
            vi.   Cottage food producers, subject to their registration with
the Minnesota Department of Agriculture.
         (e)   Level 3 home occupations. Level 3 home occupations are those
that have the potential to impact neighboring properties. A Level 3 home
occupation requires City Council approval of an interim use permit. Level 3
home occupations also shall be subject to the standards for home occupations
listed in division (D)19.(g) below. Level 3 home occupations may include, but
are not strictly limited to:
            i.   Small engine repair;
            ii.   Small equipment repair;
            iii.   Building trades; and
            iv.   Heating, plumbing, electrical or air-conditioning services.
         (f)   Determination. In cases where it is unclear whether a home
occupation should be classified as Level 1, Level 2, or Level 3, the Zoning
Administrator or the Community Development Director shall make such a
determination. An owner or operator of a home occupation may appeal to the
Planning Commission the city staff decision about the level of the home
occupation.
         (g)    General provisions. All home occupations shall be subject to
the following standards:
            i.   A home occupation required to have a state or federal license
or registration shall show proof of this license or registration to the city at
the time of permit application.
            ii.   A home occupation shall result in no incompatibility or
disturbance to the surrounding residential uses.
            iii.   All home occupations must be clearly incidental and
secondary to the residential use of the property, shall not change the
residential character of the property, shall not occupy more than 25% of the
gross floor area of the dwelling (excluding garages and detached accessory
buildings), and must be conducted by a person or persons who reside full-time
in the dwelling.
            iv.   All home occupations shall meet all applicable fire and
building codes, as well as any other city, county, state or federal
regulations.
            v.   Home occupations shall not create parking and loading demands
in excess of that which can be accommodated in an existing driveway. Such an
occupation shall not generate more than two additional motor vehicles at one
time. Parking facilities required to serve the home occupation shall be
provided on the property, but no such parking facilities shall be located
within any required front or side yard, expect upon an established driveway.
            vi.   No exterior alterations to the structure shall be permitted
and no permanent alterations to the residence shall be permitted that are not
customarily found in a residence.
            vii.   No home occupation shall produce light, glare, noise, odor,
water, smoke, gasses, heat, dust or vibration discernable beyond the property
line that will in any way have an objectionable effect upon adjacent or nearby
property.
            viii.   The operator shall not use any equipment in the home
occupation that will create electrical interference to surrounding properties.
            ix.   The city does not permit the installation or use of any
mechanical or electrical equipment requiring more than 240 volts single phase
to conduct a home occupation.
            x.   There shall be no exterior storage visible from a public
street of equipment, products or materials used in the home occupation, except
that functioning, personal motor vehicles used by the owner or residents of the
property of the home occupation may be parked on the site.
            xi.   All activities related to a home occupation must be conducted
within a fully enclosed building. The growing of food or ornamental crops, to
be sold or donated off-site, shall be exempt from this provision provided the
plants and related materials are maintained in a clean and orderly manner and
that waste is disposed of appropriately. Food or ornamental crops may only be
made available for on-site pick-up, if they are grown on-site, if they are
distributed through a community supported agriculture (CSA) model. For purposes
of this subdivision, the cannabis plant and hemp plant, as defined in M.S. §
342.01 are not a food or ornamental crop.
            xii.   Regular retail sales or distribution of products on the
premises are prohibited. Occasional sales of products or other articles on-site
are permitted where the dwelling serves as an office for a person regularly
engaged in retail sales outside the dwelling, or where such occasional sales
are incidental to and not the primary purpose of the home occupation. The city
allows the on-site sale of products related to the home occupation with the
following conditions:
               A.    Products are shipped to and/or from the premises; or
               B.    Product sales occur off-site at other locations; or
               C.    Customers visit the premises by appointment only; or
               D.    Products are sold on the premises at garage or yard sales
as regulated by the City Code.
            xiii.   The hours of operation for any home occupation shall be
limited to between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
            xiv.   The following uses and activities are not allowed as home
occupations:
               A.   The service and repair, whether for consideration or not,
of motor vehicles that are not registered to a resident of the dwelling on the
property where the repair is made, or to a son or daughter, sibling, parent,
grandparent, or grandchild of a resident of the property;
               B.    Motor vehicle body repair and painting;
               C.    Motor vehicle sales;
               D.    Sexually-orientated use or adult use businesses and
activities regulated under Chapter 120 and § 154.010 of the City Code;
               E.   The practice of medical, dental, chiropractic, psychiatric,
or other similar treatment or therapy, including acupuncture, where the person
(s) providing such treatment or therapy is not licensed by the State of
Minnesota to administer such treatment or therapy; or in the case of massage
therapy, where the person(s) providing such treatment is not certified by the
"National Certification Board for Therapy Massage and Bodywork" or by the
"Massage and Bodywork Licensing Examination;"
               F.    Businesses, educational programs, or similar gatherings
that meet on a regular basis, having more than six non-resident adults in
attendance at one time;
               G.    Veterinary services;
               H.    Unlicensed firearm or ammunition sales/repair;
               I.    Music instruction, unless conducted within a single-family
(detached) dwelling;
               J.    Tattoo and body-art businesses;
               K.   All cannabis businesses;
               L.    Restaurant;
               M.    Currency exchange; and
               N.    Payday loan agency.
         (h)   Existing nonconforming home occupations. Existing home
occupations lawfully existing on the effective date of this section may
continue as non-conforming uses. Any existing home occupation that is
discontinued for a period of more than one year shall be brought into
conformity with the provisions of this section prior to re-institution. See
also § 154.009 pertaining to non-conformities.
         (i)   Inspection. The city hereby reserves the right to inspect the
premises for which the city has granted a home occupation permit to ensure
compliance and the provisions of this section or any conditions additionally
imposed.
         (j)   Violations. Any home occupation found to be in violation of this
section shall be served with a notice from the Zoning Administrator or
Community Development Director. If the owner or operator of the home occupation
does not correct the violation within 30 days, the city shall revoke the
approval for the home occupation.
         (k)   Regulations. All occupations conducted in the home shall comply
with the provisions of this section, as well as applicable local, state, and
federal laws as well as § 98.18 Nuisances Affecting Peace and Safety.
      20.   Hospital.
         (a)   An appropriate transition area between the use and adjacent
property may be required, using landscaping, screening, and other site
improvements consistent with the character of the neighborhood.
      21.   Indoor recreation.
         (a)   The facility shall be located at least 50 feet from the boundary
of any residential use or district.
      22.   Institutions.
         (a)   No structure shall be located within 50 feet of an adjacent lot
located in a residential district.
         (b)   No parking lot of six or more spaces shall be located within 20
feet of an adjacent lot located in a residential district.
         (c)   No access shall be located within 30 feet of a corner.
      23.   Limited production and processing.
         (a)   Odors, noise, vibration, light, glare and other potential side
effects of manufacturing processes shall not be discernable beyond the property
line.
      24.   Live/work unit.
         (a)   The work space component shall be located on the first floor or
basement of the building, with an entrance facing the primary abutting public
street.
         (b)   The dwelling unit component shall be located above or behind the
work space, and maintain a separate entrance located on the front or side
façade and accessible from the primary abutting public street.
         (c)   The office or business component of the unit shall not exceed
50% of the total gross floor area of the unit.
         (d)   The size and nature of the work space shall be limited so that
the building type is governed by residential building codes.
         (e)   The business component of the building may include offices,
small service establishments, homecrafts which are typically considered
accessory to a dwelling unit, or limited retailing associated with fine arts,
crafts, or personal services. The business component shall be limited to those
uses otherwise permitted in the district, which do not require a separation
from residentially zoned or occupied property, or other protected use. It shall
not include a wholesale business, a manufacturing business, a commercial food
service requiring a license or auto service or repair for any vehicles other
than those registered to residents of the property.
      25.   Lodge, private club, reception hall.
         (a)   Service of food and liquor allowed when licensed.
      26.   Municipal administrative building, fire station or other public
safety or service facilities.
         (a)   To the extent appropriate and possible, the site and building
plans shall meet the standards for an office as provided in this chapter.
      27.   Multiple family dwelling.
         (a)   Access. No access shall be located within 50 feet of a public
street corner.
         (b)   Drainage. Drainage shall be provided as required consistent with
the city and Watershed District requirements. Any required NURP ponds shall be
integrated into the overall plan and proper easement and maintenance agreements
shall be provided.
         (c)   Projecting air conditioning and heating units. Air conditioning
or heating units shall not project through exterior walls or windows unless
located behind a balcony and screened from view.
         (d)   Transformers. If located outside, shall be screened from view.
         (e)   Utilities. Building utility services and structures such as
meters, transformers, refuse containers, including dumpsters, ancillary
equipment and the like shall be either located inside the principal building,
inside an accessory building, or, where allowed, be outside and entirely
screened from off-site views. For new buildings, all utilities shall be
underground.
         (f)   Compliance. No permit shall be issued allowing construction of a
new building, the moving of an existing building into the city, nor shall any
existing building be expanded more than 2,000 square feet or significantly
structurally altered on the exterior unless it meets the requirements of this
chapter and is approved.
      28.   Office.
         (a)   Landscaping. All areas within 24 feet of the building shall be
landscaped except for driveways, connecting walks and plazas. Off-street
parking shall be separated by a landscaped strip where it abuts a lot line,
except along an alley where a reduction may be allowed.
      29.   Outdoor sales and display.
         (a)   Limitation. No open sales lot shall exist unless the same use
occupies space in a principal building on the same lot.
         (b)   Size. The size of the open sales lot shall not be greater than
four times the square footage the use has within the building on the same
property.
         (c)   Screening. The site of the open sales lot must be adequately
screened to minimize impact on adjacent properties.
      30.   Outdoor recreation, commercial.
         (a)   A minimum of 25 feet setback landscaped area shall be provided
along the perimeter of the site wherever it abuts a residential district.
         (b)   If the use will be available to the general public, an arterial
or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic that the
use will generate shall serve the site. Ease of access to the site by vehicles,
transit, bicycles, and pedestrians shall be considered.
         (c)   The site shall be designed in such a way as to minimize the
effects of lighting and noise on surrounding properties. Hours of operation may
be restricted and noise and lighting limits imposed.
         (d)   An appropriate transition area between the use and adjacent
properties may be required, using landscaping, screening, and other site
improvements.
      31.   Outdoor seating, commercial.
         (a)   Primary access to the area shall be from within the
establishment.
         (b)   Hours of operation may be restricted and noise and lighting
limits imposed.
         (c)   An appropriate transition area between the use and adjacent
properties may be required, using landscaping, screening, and other site
improvements.
      32.   Outdoor storage.
         (a)   Outdoor storage shall be located outside of the front yard
setback and shall not be placed between the principal building and the abutting
street.
         (b)   Outdoor storage shall be completely screened from any adjacent
street, sidewalk, public walkway, or public park.
         (c)   Outdoor storage shall be screened from abutting residential uses
with a wall, solid fencing, evergreen hedge, or equivalent material. All
screening shall be six feet in height. Screening along district boundaries,
where present, may provide all or part of the required screening.
      33.   Pawn shop. Individual pawn shops are regulated and licensed under
Title XI Business Regulations, Chapter 124: Pawn Shops. Pawn shops may be
allowed by conditional use permit in the MU-3 District. While a pawn shop
business is licensed and regulated under Chapter 124, any pawn shop shall
comply with the provisions of Chapter 154 and an approved conditional use
permit. The City Council may impose conditions on approval of such a
conditional use permit in order to regulate the effects on the city's ability
to provide public urban services, changes to the desired character of an area,
or the creation of major nuisances.
      34.   Portable storage units.
         (a)   A maximum of two portable storage units, not exceeding a
cumulative gross floor area of 250 square feet shall be allowed for up to 90
consecutive days within a calendar year when part of an active building permit.
         (b)   When not part of an active building permit, such use is allowed
for no more than 30 days per calendar year.
         (c)   The portable storage unit(s) may not be located within the front
or side yard setbacks unless located in a driveway.
         (d)   This use is allowed for temporary storage of household goods in
residential areas.
      35.   Rain garden.
         (a)   Purpose. Rain gardens are an effective mechanism for stormwater
management. Rain gardens facilitate the infiltration of stormwater into the
ground thereby reducing the flow of stormwater into storm drains and
maintaining supplies for drinking water, irrigation, and dry-weather flow to
streams, wetlands and ponds. The infiltration process removes pollutants from
the stormwater and contributes to the health of the city's lakes, streams,
ponds and wetlands. A number of benefits are associated with the use of rain
gardens, many of which are tied to established community goals involving the
promotion of ecological health, public safety, quality of life and responsible
resource management, and include:
            i.   Increased habitat for beneficial insects, butterflies and
birds.
            ii.   Reduced risk of flooding.
            iii.   Provision of aesthetically pleasing landscapes.
            iv.   Alleviation of the burden placed on existing and costly
stormwater infrastructure.
         (b)   Eligibility.
            i.   Zoning district. Rain gardens shall be allowed in all zoning
districts.
            ii.   Suitability. All parcels may not be suitable for a rain
garden due to varying soil composition and parcel elevations within the city.
         (c)   Construction, maintenance and functionality.
            i.    Construction. Proper construction is essential to the
effectiveness of the rain garden as a mechanism for stormwater management.
            ii.    Maintenance. To ensure the parcel and the city continue to
receive the benefits provided by rain gardens, regular maintenance is required.
Maintenance is defined as removal of all non-approved vegetation and lack of
visible sedimentation.
            iii.    Functionality. A properly constructed, well maintained rain
garden is expected to function as intended. Functionality is defined by the
absence of standing water in the rain garden within 48 hours of a rain event.
         (d)   Permit. To ensure the initial construction and ongoing
maintenance of the rain garden is performed satisfactorily, a permit shall be
required for the operation of rain gardens located in the right-of-way and on
private property.
            i.   Permit requirements. The rain garden permit application shall
consist of the following:
               A.    Documentation. Correspondence with and funds received from
the Watershed District(s) to support the construction of the rain garden shall
be documented.
               B.    Construction plan. An annotated illustration including the
following shall be provided:
                  1.    Context map. Depiction of the site in proximity to
surrounding features.
                  2.    Right-of-way. If the proposed rain garden is located in
the right-of way, the context map shall illustrate the site relative to the
street, sidewalk and curb, and the lot owned by the applicant.
                  3.    Private property. If the proposed rain garden is
located on private property, the context map shall illustrate the site relative
to the principal structure on the lot and other impervious surfaces.
                  4.    The proposed dimensions of the rain garden including
length, width and depth.
                  5.    The existing slope of the site.
                  6.    The location of above ground and/or underground public
and/or private utilities.
               C.    Plant species. A list of all plant species proposed for
the rain garden.
               D.   A permit will not be required if the rain garden is under
ten square feet and the applicant has coordinated with the Watershed District.
            ii.    Maintenance plan. Documentation of how and by whom the rain
garden will be maintained.
            iii.   Fees. The applicant shall pay all costs incurred by the city
for the review of an application. The applicant shall submit an escrow to the
city as established by City Council at the time of application. Under no
condition shall the fee be refunded or waived for failure of the city to
approve the application.
            iv.    Right-of-way permit. Rain gardens within the right-of-way
shall require a right-of-way permit (See Chapter 94, Streets and Sidewalks,
Right-of-Way Management).
         (e)   Process.
            i.   Submittals. The applicant shall submit a completed permit
application to the city for review.
            ii.    Completeness review. No application is complete unless all
of the required information is included and all application fees have been
paid. The city may refuse to accept an incomplete application.
            iii.    Notification. The city shall notify the applicant of their
determination upon review.
               A.    Approval. The applicant may commence construction upon
receipt of permit approval.
               B.    Denial. The applicant may be eligible to reapply upon
receipt of permit denial.
            iv.   Compliant. Construction of the rain garden must comply with
the approved permit when required.
            v.    Construction. The applicant shall notify the city upon
completion of construction.
            vi.   Site visit. City staff shall perform an inspection of the
rain garden upon completion of construction to ensure compliance with the
permit.
            vii.   Violation. In the event the applicant violates any of the
agreement or conditions set forth in the permit the city shall have the
authority to revoke said permit. In the event of a rain garden nuisance, the
city shall have the authority to repair the rain garden at the owner's expense.
            viii.   Duration. A rain garden permit shall remain in effect as
long as the conditions agreed upon are observed.
            ix.    Reapplication. If necessary, the applicant may be eligible
to resubmit an application.
      36.   Residential pools and spas.
         (a)   A site plan indicating the following: location, type and size of
the proposed pool, location of fencing, house, garage and other improvements on
the lot; location of structures on all adjacent lots; location of filter unit,
pump and wiring indicating the type of such units; location of back- flush and
drainage outlets; grading plan, finished elevations and final treatment
(decking, landscaping and the like) around the pool or spa; location of
existing overhead or underground wiring, utility easements, trees and similar
features; location of any water heating unit.
         (b)   Pools and spas shall not be located within ten feet of any side
or rear lot nor within six feet of any principal structure or frost footing.
Pools shall not be located within any required front yard.
         (c)   Pools and spas shall not be located beneath overhead utility
lines nor over underground utility lines of any type.
         (d)   Pools and spas shall not be located within any private or public
utility, walkway, drainage or other easement.
         (e)   The filter unit, pump, heating unit and any other noise-making
mechanical equipment shall be located at least 20 feet from any adjacent or
nearby residential structure and not closer than ten feet to any lot line.
         (f)   To the extent feasible, back flush water or water from pool or
spa drainage shall be directed onto the owner's property or into approved
public drainage ways. Water shall not drain onto adjacent or nearby private
land or into sanitary sewer.
         (g)   A structure or safety fence at least five feet in height shall
completely enclose the pool. Said fence shall adhere to the following
provisions as well as those listed in §
154.010(A)(11).
            i.   Be equipped with self-closing, self-latching gates capable of
being locked.
            ii.   Not have any opening greater than four inches.
            iii.   Not have any opening greater than two inches below the
fences.
            iv.   Not be a readily climbable design.
         (h)   In the case of in ground pools, the necessary precautions shall
be taken during the construction to:
            i.   Avoid damage, hazards or inconvenience to adjacent or nearby
property.
            ii.   Take proper care in stockpiling excavated material to avoid
erosion, dust or other infringements upon adjacent property.
         (i)   All access for construction shall be over the owner's land, and
due care shall be taken to avoid damage to public streets and adjacent private
or public property.
         (j)   All wiring, installation of heating units and pipes, grading,
and all other installations and construction shall be subject to inspection.
         (k)   Nuisances such as undue noise, spillover lighting on adjacent
property, health and safety hazards, damage to nearby vegetation and the like
shall not be permitted.
         (l)   Water in the pool shall be maintained in a suitable manner to
avoid health hazards of any type. Such water shall be subject to periodic
inspection.
      37.   Retail sales and service uses.
         (a)   Landscaping. All areas within 24 feet of the building shall be
landscaped except for driveways, connecting walks and plazas. Off-street
parking shall be separated by a landscaped strip where it abuts a lot line,
except along an alley where a reduction may be allowed.
         (b)   Parking. No off-street parking shall be located within 12 feet
of a front, rear or corner lot line nor within six feet of an interior side lot
line.
      38.   Schools, public and private.
         (a)   A transition area between the use and adjacent properties may be
required, using landscaping, screening, and other site improvements.
      39.   Senior housing/senior housing with services.
         (a)   Access. No access shall be located within 50 feet of a public
street corner.
         (b)   Drainage. Drainage shall be provided as required consistent with
the city and watershed district requirements. Any required NURP
ponds shall be integrated into the overall plan and proper easement and
maintenance agreements shall be provided.
         (c)   Projecting air conditioning and heating units. Air conditioning
or heating units shall not project through exterior walls or windows unless
located behind a balcony and screened from view.
         (d)   Transformers. If located outside, shall be screened from view.
         (e)   Utilities. Building utility services and structures such as
meters, transformers, refuse containers, including dumpsters, ancillary
equipment and the like shall be either located inside the principal building,
inside an accessory building, or, where allowed, be outside and entirely
screened from off-site views. For new buildings, all utilities shall be
underground.
         (f)   Compliance. No permit shall be issued allowing construction of a
new building, the moving of an existing building into the city, nor shall any
existing building be expanded more than 2,000 square feet or significantly
structurally altered on the exterior unless it meets the requirements of this
chapter and is approved.
         (g)   Affordability and senior citizen housing. If a portion or all of
the units are proposed as affordable housing or senior citizen housing, as
defined in this chapter, and considerations are made for this by the city in
the review and approval process, the developer (proponent for the development)
must provide a guarantee through covenants and association documents which
guarantee such use to the satisfaction of the city. The city shall be a third
party to the covenant, if the city so desires. Such covenants shall be for a
minimum of 25 years, or the term of the mortgage, whichever is longer.
      40.   Solar energy systems.
         (a)   A plan shall be submitted showing the proposed location of the
solar or wind energy system on the lot, the design of the solar or wind energy
system, the location of improvements on adjoining lots, as well as landscaping
on the lot and adjoining lots that impacts the location of the solar or wind
energy system. Additional materials may be required.
         (b)   The plan shall be approved by the Community Development
Department prior to the installation of the energy system. Any conditions or
restrictions placed on the energy system shall be limited to those that serve
to preserve or protect the public health, safety, or do not significantly
increase the cost, or decrease the efficiency of the system. Conditions or
restrictions that allow for an alternative system of comparable cost and
efficiency may also be imposed.
      41.   Special infill housing.
         (a)   The parcel must be within 10% of meeting the conventional
minimum lot width and lot area of the zoning district.
         (b)   Proposed houses must be of quality design, utilize high quality
materials and are governed by a superior development plan with respect to
design, orientation and location of the house and any accessory garages and
building, the location of the driveway, required parking, landscaping,
accessory buildings, if any, and other factors and features relevant to the
site development and adjacent property.
         (c)   Due regard has been given to adjacent property.
         (d)   The first floor or main floor area for a proposed house shall be
a minimum of 600 square feet.
      42.   State licensed residential facility (six or fewer persons).
         (a)   The design and development standards for this use are the same
as single-family detached dwellings.
      43.   Temporary buildings for storage of construction materials and
equipment.
         (a)   Buildings must be located on the same zoning lot as the project
under construction, and shall be removed within 30 days following completion of
construction.
      44.   Temporary outdoor events.
         (a)   Events include, but not limited to: Christmas tree sales,
pumpkin sales, church, neighborhood or community events, traveling carnivals,
and promotional events.
         (b)   No event shall last more than 180 days per calendar year.
         (c)   Any event that lasts for more than 45 days requires a
conditional use permit.
      45.   Townhouse dwelling.
         (a)   Access. Each townhouse unit shall have direct vehicle access
from the garage and driveway to a public road or to an improved private road
meeting the requirements of the city.
         (b)   Drainage. Drainage shall be provided as required consistent with
the city and Watershed District requirements. Any required NURP ponds shall be
integrated into the overall plan and proper easement and maintenance agreements
shall be provided.
         (c)   Projecting air conditioning and heating units. Air conditioning
or heating units shall not project through exterior walls or windows unless
located behind a balcony and screened from view as viewed from public and
private streets, or internal circulation driveways in developments with
multiple buildings.
         (d)   Utilities. Building utility services and structures such as
meters, transformers, refuse containers, including dumpsters, ancillary
equipment and the like shall be either located inside the principal building,
inside an accessory building, or, where allowed, be outside and entirely
screened from off-site views. For new buildings, all utilities shall be
underground.
         (e)   Density. Townhouses within the Mixed-Use Districts shall be
developed in accordance with the density as guided by the Comprehensive Plan.
         (f)   Public roads. Each townhouse development shall have direct
vehicle access to a public road.
         (g)   Guest parking. Off-street parking areas for guests must be
considered for each development. In instances where the length and width of the
driveway and the street are not adequate for parking, a separate parking bay or
parking lot might be required.
         (h)   Compliance. No permit shall be issued allowing construction of a
new building, the moving of an existing building into the city, nor shall any
existing building be expanded more than 2,000 square feet or significantly
structurally altered on the exterior unless it meets the requirements of this
chapter and is approved.
      46.   Veterinary clinic, animal hospital.
         (a)   All activity shall take place within completely enclosed
buildings with soundproofing and odor control.
      47.   Warehousing/storage.
         (a)   Space shall not exceed more than 60% of principal building.
      48.   Wind energy systems.
         (a)   A plan shall be submitted showing the proposed location of the
solar or wind energy system on the lot, the design of the solar or wind energy
system, the location of improvements on adjoining lots, as well as landscaping
on the lot and adjoining lots that impacts the location of the solar or wind
energy system. Additional materials may be required.
         (b)   The plan shall be approved by the Community Development
Department prior to the installation of the energy system. Any conditions or
restrictions placed on the energy system shall be limited to those that serve
to preserve or protect the public health, safety, or do not significantly
increase the cost, or decrease the efficiency of the system. Conditions or
restrictions that allow for an alternative system of comparable cost and
efficiency may also be imposed.
      49.   Yard sales.
         (a)   A yard sale shall not exceed four days in duration, and no more
than one sale shall be held in any three month period.
      50.   Body art establishment.
         (a)   No person shall own or operate a body art establishment without
a state license under M.S. Chapter 146B and city license under City Code
Chapters 110 and
125.
      51.   Cottage developments.
         (a)   Density and minimum lot area.
            i.   In cottage developments the permitted density shall not exceed
the density permitted in the underlying zoning district.
            ii.   The minimum total lot area for a cottage development shall be
0.5 acres.
            iii.   On a lot to be used for a cottage development, an existing
detached single-family residential or two-family dwelling, which may be
nonconforming with respect to the standards of this section, shall be permitted
to remain, but the extent of the nonconformity may not be increased.
         (b)   Height limit and roof pitch.
            i.   The height limit permitted for structures in cottage
developments shall be 18 feet.
            ii.   The ridge of pitched roofs with a minimum slope of six to 12
may extend up to 25 feet. All parts of the roof above 18 feet shall be pitched.
         (c)   Lot coverage and floor area.
            i.   The maximum lot coverage permitted for principal and accessory
structures in a cottage development shall not exceed 40%.
            ii.   The first floor or main floor area for an individual
principal structure in a cottage development shall be a minimum of 600 square
feet and shall not exceed 1,000 square feet.
            iii.   The total floor area of each cottage shall not exceed either
one and one-half times the area of the main level or 1,000 square feet,
whichever is less.
         (d)   Setbacks. The setbacks required in the underlying zoning
district shall apply from adjacent property lines along the perimeter of the
cottage development site to structures, but not internally within the site.
         (e)   Required open space. At least 50% of the cottage unit shall abut
the common open space, all of the cottage units shall be within 60 feet walking
distance of the common open space, and the common open space shall have
cottages abutting at least two sides.
         (f)   Parking location. Parking shall be on the cottage development
property and may be in or under a structure or outside a structure, provided
that:
            i.   The parking shall be screened from direct street view by one
or more street facades, by garage doors, or by a fence and landscaping.
            ii.   Parking between structures is only allowed when it is located
toward the rear of the principal structure and is served by an alley or private
driveway.
            iii.   Parking may not be located in the front yard.
            iv.   Parking may be located between any structure and the rear lot
line of the lot or between any structure and a side lot line, which is not a
street side lot line.
         (g)   Porches. Each unit in the cottage development shall have a front
porch at least 80 square feet in size and facing a street or common open space.
      52.   Two-family dwelling.
         (a)   Because groupings of two-family dwellings have higher levels of
neighborhood impact than standalone, infill two-family dwellings, approval of
groupings of two-family dwellings warrants a higher level of review and
discretion. Plans for groupings of two-family dwellings within the R-1 District
may only be approved when a planned unit development overlay zoning district
has first been approved by the City Council. Two-family dwellings qualify as a
grouping when the parcel on which a two-family dwelling is proposed within 500
feet of a parcel occupied by an existing or proposed two-family dwelling,
measured along existing or proposed public streets.
         (b)   Attachment required. The two units in a two-family dwelling must
have a common wall of at least ten feet in length or be oriented in an over/
under relationship.
      53.   Cannabis businesses.
         (a)   Buffer.
            i.   A cannabis business shall not operate within 750 feet of a
school, or within 500 feet of a daycare, residential treatment facility, or
attraction within a public park regularly used by minors.
            ii.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an active cannabis
business or a cannabis business seeking registration from continuing operation
at the same site if a school, daycare, residential treatment facility, or
attraction within a public park regularly used by minors moves within the
minimum buffer zone.
         (b)   Cannabis retail business.
            i.   Hours of operation. The hours of operation of any cannabis
retail business shall be limited to 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Monday-Saturday,
10:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Sunday.
            ii.   Retail registration required. No cannabis retail business may
operate without active registration under §
126.04 .
            iii.   On-site consumption limited. No cannabis retail business may
allow the on-site consumption of cannabis, cannabis products, or lower-potency
hemp edibles unless specifically permitted by state license or endorsement.
This includes both indoor and outdoor consumption.
         (c)   Cannabis industry business.
            i.   Odor management. All cannabis industry businesses shall have
air filtration and treatment sufficient to ensure that no odor of cannabis is
detectable by a person with a normal sense of smell at the property line.
         (d)   Cannabis events.
            i.   Special event permit required. Cannabis events require a
special event permit pursuant to Chapter 122, in addition to meeting all state
licensing requirements and regulations.
            ii.   On-site consumption prohibited. No temporary cannabis event
may permit the on-site consumption of cannabis, cannabis products, or lower-
potency hemp edibles.
         (e)   Compliance with laws. All cannabis businesses must comply with
all applicable state and local laws and regulations, specifically including any
restrictions or requirements of a state cannabis business license issued by the
Office of Cannabis Management and any cannabis business requirements found in
Chapter 126 .
      54.   Pergolas.
         (a)   Attached pergolas shall be subject to the same setback
requirements as attached decks. The city shall consider detached pergolas as
detached accessory structures when determining their height and setback
requirements.
         (b)   A detached pergola shall not count towards the total limit on
the number of detached accessory structures that are permitted on a property.
         (c)   Pergolas do count towards total lot coverage.
   (E)   Architectural requirements.
      1.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect and preserve
property values and the city's tax base, provide for the general welfare of the
city and establish reasonable development standards for functional and
aesthetic aspects of buildings and structures. Buildings shall be designed and
consist of materials to ensure compatibility and architectural quality within
their setting and to enhance the community appeal and image. All buildings and
structures and remodeling of either existing or new buildings shall take into
account compatibility related to architectural quality and mass of the
structures to be constructed. Elements of compatibility include, but are not
limited to: building form, mass, height and bulk; fenestration, exterior
materials and their appearance, color and durability; setbacks; landscaping,
exterior lighting and site improvements.
      2.   Applicability.
         (a)   Nonresidential and mixed-use development. No permit shall be
issued allowing construction of a new building, the moving of an existing
building into the city, nor shall any existing building be expanded more than
1,000 square feet or significantly structurally altered on the exterior unless
it meets the requirements of this section and is approved.
         (b)   Residential development. No permit shall be issued allowing
construction of a new building, the moving of an existing building into the
city, nor shall any existing building be expanded more than 300 square feet or
significantly structurally altered on the exterior unless it meets the
requirements of this chapter.
      3.    General requirements.  In all districts, buildings and structures
must comply with the following:
         (a)   Equipment and service area screening. If an outdoor storage,
service or loading area is visible from adjacent residential uses or an
abutting public street or public walkway, it shall be screened by a decorative
fence, wall or screening of plant material at least six feet in height. Fences
and walls shall be architecturally compatible with the primary structure.
         (b)   Utilities. Building utility services and structures such as
meters, transformers, refuse containers, including dumpsters, ancillary
equipment and the like shall be either located inside the principal building,
inside an accessory building, or, where outside be entirely screened from off-
site views. For new buildings, all utilities shall be underground.
         (c)   Screening of rooftop equipment. All rooftop equipment, with the
exception of solar and wind equipment, shall be screened from view from
adjacent streets and public rights-of-way. Rooftop equipment shall be screened
from view from adjacent buildings to the extent possible.
            i.   The equipment shall be within an enclosure. This structure
shall be set back a distance of one and one-half times its height from any
primary façade fronting a public street.
               A.    Screens shall be of durable, permanent materials (not
including wood) that are compatible with the primary building materials.
               B.    Screening shall be constructed to a height of at least one
foot above the height of the equipment.
            ii.   Exterior. Exterior mechanical equipment such as ductwork
shall not be located on primary building facades.
         (d)   Accessory buildings. Exterior building finishes and
architectural design of accessory buildings, if allowed, shall be similar to
the principal building.
         (e)   Pedestrian ways. Buildings shall be designed with proper
provision and orientation for a pedestrian system to serve and link
development.
         (f)   Pedestrian-oriented design. Building designs are encouraged to
make the street enjoyable, visually interesting and comfortable. Individual
buildings should be integrated with the streetscape to bring activity in the
building in direct contact with the people on the street.
         (g)   Protection of views. Buildings shall be designed and oriented so
as not to detract from one another or to unduly restrict views to open spaces,
plazas and vistas.
      4.   Architectural control. In all districts, buildings and structures
must comply with the following:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling.
            i.   Shall be designed to consist of exterior materials compatible
with residential development in the area with due regard to architectural
quality and the massing of structures.
         (b)   Townhouse dwelling and modular housing.
            i.   Shall be designed to consist of exterior materials compatible
with residential development in the area with due regard to architectural
quality and the massing of structures.
            ii.   Variation of exterior walls. No more than two adjacent
townhouse units may have front facades in the same vertical plane. Where a
variation in front façade plane is required, the variation shall be a minimum
of three feet. For purposes of this section adjacent townhouse units refer to
those physically attached or units located within 15 feet, if not physically
attached.
            iii.   Design features. At least two of the following design
features shall be provided for visual relief along all facades of each townhome
structure:
               (a)    Roof dormers;
               (b)    Gables;
               (c)    Recessed entries;
               (d)    Covered porches;
               (e)   Bay windows;
               (f)    Eaves of at least 12 inches beyond the building wall or a
parapet wall with an articulated design (decorative cornice, etc.);
               (g)    Recesses/shadow lines.
            iv.   Garage frontage. Townhouse dwelling unit garage doors facing
a public or private street are limited to 40% of the structure width facing the
same street.
            v.   Equipment. All building equipment shall be hidden from view.
Building vents and chimneys shall consist of similar materials to the building
roof and the sides of the building.
         (c)   Multiple family dwelling.
            i.   Shall be designed to consist of exterior materials compatible
with residential development in the area with due regard to architectural
quality and the massing of structures, and shall be designed with suitable
fenestration.
            ii.   Roof type. Roof style shall be gable or hip roof. Flat roofs
are discouraged and may not be appropriate.
         (d)   Nonresidential and mixed-use buildings. The following standards
are applicable after the effective date of this chapter to all new buildings
and major expansions (50% or more of the building floor area). These standards
shall apply only to the portion of the building or site that is undergoing
alteration. Although, all buildings and structures and remodeling of either
existing or new buildings shall take into account compatibility related to
architectural quality and mass of the structures to be constructed.
            i.   Primary building entrances on all new buildings are encouraged
to be oriented to the primary abutting public street. The entrance shall have a
functional door. Additional secondary entrances may be oriented to a secondary
street or parking area. Entries shall be clearly visible and identifiable from
the street, and delineated with elements such as roof overhangs, recessed
entries, landscaping, or similar design features. Barrier-free entrances are
required.
            ii.   Façade articulation. Consistent with the design of
traditional storefront buildings, new buildings of more than 40 feet in width
shall be divided into smaller increments, through articulation of the façade.
This can be achieved through combinations of the following techniques, and
others that may meet the intent of this section.
               A.    Façade modulation. Stepping back or extending forward a
portion of the façade.
               B.    Vertical divisions using different textures or materials
(although materials shall be drawn from a common palette).
               C.    Division into storefronts, with separate display windows
and entrances.
               D.    Variation in roof lines by alternating dormers, stepped
roofs, gables, or other roof elements to reinforce the modulation or
articulation interval. (see FIGURE 21)
               E.    Arcades, awnings, and window bays at intervals equal to
the articulation interval. (see FIGURE 22)
            iii.   Design of street-facing facades. No blank walls shall be
permitted to face the public street, sidewalks, or other public spaces such as
plazas. Elements such as windows, doors, columns, changes in material, and
similar details shall be used to add visual interest.
            iv.   Door and/or window openings.
               A.   For all buildings.
                  1.    Glass on windows and doors shall be clear or slightly
tinted, allowing views into and out of the interior. Spandrel glass may be used
on service areas of the building.
                  2.    Displays may be placed within windows. Equipment within
buildings shall be placed a minimum of five feet behind windows. To preserve
views, within three feet of any window, not more than 30% of the view through
the windows shall be blocked by merchandise, displays, shelving, or other
obstructions.
                  3.    Window shape, size and patterns shall emphasize the
intended organization of the façade and the definition of the building.
            v.    Compatibility with traditional buildings. New development
shall relate to the design of traditional buildings adjacent to the site, where
present, in scale and character. This can be achieved by maintaining similar
façade divisions, roof lines, rhythm, and proportions of openings, building
materials and colors. Historic architectural styles are encouraged, but need
not be replicated.
            vi.   Building alignment. Buildings shall be aligned with facades
parallel with the street to create a well-defined street edge. (see FIGURE 4)
            vii.   Building articulation. Buildings shall have horizontal and
vertical articulation, which may include dormers, cornice detailing, recesses
and projections, step-backs of upper stories, changes in roof types and planes,
building materials, and window patterns. The base of a building shall relate to
the human scale, including doors and windows, texture, projections, awnings,
canopies, and similar features.
            viii.    Ground-floor residential uses. Ground-floor residential
uses fronting a public street or walkway, where present, may be separated from
the street by landscaping, steps, porches, grade changes, and low ornamental
fences or walls in order to create a private yard between the sidewalk and the
front door.
         (e)   MU-1 District. In addition to the standards (e) i-x above, the
following shall apply to non-residential and mixed use buildings in the MU-
1 District.
            i.   New construction. Maintain the scale and character of present
buildings. New structures shall provide height, massing, setbacks, materials
and rhythm compatibility to surrounding structures, streetscape and signing
system.
            ii.   Infill buildings.
               A.    Proportion. Infill buildings should be in proportion to
adjacent and nearby buildings.
               B.    Windows. Window and door frames should be wood,
appropriately colored or bronze-tone aluminum or bronze-tone vinyl clad.
               C.    Roofs. Infill building roofs shall be flat or gently
pitched and hidden behind flat parapet walls. Roof edges should be related in
size and proportion to adjacent buildings. (Authentic designs which emulate the
roof line and/or cupola of the post office will be considered.)
               D.    Detailing. Infill architecture should reflect some of the
detailing of surrounding buildings in window shape, cornice lines and brick
work. Building alterations should restore architectural details of cornices,
lintels, area arches, chimneys and iron work of the original building as
appropriate and feasible.
            iii.   Restoration and rehabilitation. All work should be of a
character and quality that maintains the distinguishing features of the
building and environment. The removal of architectural features is not
permitted.
               A.    Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired
rather than replaced.
               B.    Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled
craftsmanship characteristics are to be preserved. If changes in use of a
building are contemplated, changes should be accomplished with minimum
alteration to the structure.
               C.   It is expected that buildings will be restored to their
original appearance; however, restoration to an "original" appearance may not
always be desirable or possible.
            iv.   Trademark building design. Trademark buildings that will
adapt to the area and the requirements of this chapter may be allowed.
            v.   Arcades. Arcades adjacent to sidewalks are encouraged to
increase the effective width of the narrow sidewalks and provide a sheltered
pedestrian path along store display windows. No side setbacks are allowed
unless next to a public pedestrian way.
            vi.   Ground floor. The overall look at the ground floor should be
a "store front" appearance.
            vii.   Rear entrances. Rear entrances to buildings should be
provided in order to develop double street frontages. The rear entrance should
present a welcome appearance. A small sign, awnings, display windows and
planter boxes can be used to improve the appearance of the rear facade and
entrance.
            viii.   Awnings. Awnings add color and shade to a building facade
as well as provide an area for signage. Only awnings which complement the
building shape and color will be permitted.
            ix.   Facade openings. The size and proportion of windows and door
openings (fenestration) of an infill building should be similar to those on the
adjacent facades.
            x.   Storefront restoration. Storefronts are encouraged to return
the facade to its original character as appropriate.
            xi.   Blank walls. Blank walls are prohibited to prevent the
disruption of existing patterns and to avoid an uninviting street environment.
Street facades can be enhanced with detailing, artwork, landscaping or other
visually interesting features.
            xii.   Lighting. Lighting adds special character to the downtown's
nighttime appearance. It can illuminate building entrances, pedestrian
walkways, advertising or floodlight special buildings.
               A.   A coordinated lighting plan shall be submitted for review
with building plans. Lighting fixtures shall be concealed or integrated into
the overall design of the project. Colored lighting should be added to achieve
harmony with downtown street lighting.
               B.   All outdoor lighting shall be directed away from adjoining
property and from the street unless globe lighting is used.
            xiii.   Exterior surfaces. The use of decorative surface treatments
for walkways, entrances and patios shall be a design feature of the building.
            xiv.   Building materials. In all districts, buildings and
structures must comply with the following:
               A.    Nonresidential buildings and mixed-use buildings. These
buildings shall be constructed of durable, high-quality materials such as
brick, stone, textured cast stone, or tinted masonry units. Table 9 lists
allowable building materials. When applying these requirements, consideration
shall be given to the use, amount, placement and relationship of each material
as part of a comprehensive palette of building materials. All building facades
visible from a public street or public walkway should employ materials and
design features similar to or complementary to those of the front façade.
         (f)   Two-family dwelling.
            i.   Shall be designed to consist of exterior materials compatible
with residential development in the area with due regard to architectural
quality and the massing of structures.
            ii.   Garage frontage. Two-family dwelling garage doors facing a
public or private street are limited to 40% of the structure width facing the
same street.
   (F)   Landscaping and screening.
      1.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish requirements
that are intended to contribute to the aesthetic environment of the city,
enhance livability and foster economic development by providing an attractive
urban setting. This section is also intended to:
         (a)   Protect, restore, preserve and maintain the natural environment
throughout the development process.
         (b)   Enhance the appearance, character, health, safety and welfare of
the community.
         (c)   Provide green spaces that can support the urban citywide tree
canopy, wildlife, such as birds, in the urban environment.
         (d)   Increase the compatibility of adjacent uses, minimize adverse
impacts of noise, dust, debris, artificial light intrusions, activities or
impacts to adjacent or surrounding uses.
         (e)   Contribute to the green infrastructure of the city to reduce air
pollutants, mitigate the urban heat island effect and stormwater run-off
issues.
      2.   Applicability.
         (a)   Landscaping shall be provided consistent with this section for
all new development, including structures, parking lots or site improvements,
as well as alterations to existing development. The entire development site
must be brought into compliance with this section unless the value of the
alteration is less than 50% of the value of the existing development or
structure. If the value is less than 50% of the value of the existing
development or structure, then only the affected areas need to be brought up to
compliance or approval may be given for the landscape treatment (limited in
size and scope to the new area) to be spread over the entire property to avoid
an uneven appearance.
         (b)   The following requirement shall be enforced with the exception
of when the review authority determines that the amount and/or locations of
plantings pose a risk of overcrowding of plant materials.
      3.   Tree requirements.
         (a)   Number of trees. Trees must be planted within the property lines
and in a location as not to interfere with sight line visibility at maturity.
Trees shall not be planted in drainage and utility easements. The minimum
number of trees of any given site shall be as follows:
            i.   Single- and two-family uses. A minimum of one tree per parcel.
            ii.   Townhouse and multiple family uses. Residential structures
containing two or more units shall contain as a minimum: one tree per dwelling
unit.
            iii.   MU-2 and MU-3 Districts. Whichever is greater: one tree per
1,000 square feet of gross building floor area or one tree per 50 lineal feet
of site perimeter.
      4.   Landscape coverage.  All residential district properties are
encouraged to have diversified landscaping in addition to the landscaping
required in setback areas for free-standing, detached structures. All
landscaped areas are encouraged to be developed with live deciduous and
coniferous plants, grass, trees, and shrubs which provide a variety of color,
texture, height, and forms consistent with the needs of the site and other
elements of the plan. The landscaped areas may contain, but not limited to,
some decorative stones, wood, patio blocks, sculptures, and other appropriate
ornamental features. Overall composition and location of landscaped areas shall
complement the scale of the development and its surroundings. In general,
larger, well-placed contiguous planting areas shall be preferred to smaller,
disconnected areas. The following zoning classifications will have the
following percentage of the lot landscaped:
         (a)   R-1 District. All areas, except for buildings, driveways and
approved parking areas, shall be landscaped as described above. Landscaping may
include retaining the natural landscape where appropriate. At least 60% of the
front yard must be landscaped.
         (b)   R-2 District. All areas, except for buildings, driveways and
approved parking areas, shall be landscaped as described above. Landscaping may
include retaining the natural landscape where appropriate. At least 50% of the
front yard must be landscaped.
         (c)   R-3 District. All areas, except for buildings, driveways and
approved parking areas, shall be landscaped as described above. This includes
retaining the natural landscape where appropriate. Screening shall be provided
and established to protect and screen potential functional, use or density
incompatibilities, including those related to streets, county, state roads and
parking lots.
         (d)   MU-1 District. Landscaping treatment shall be provided to
enhance architectural features, strengthen vistas, screen utility areas and
enhance streetscape treatments. Where possible, a minimum of 2% of the site may
provide for diversified landscaping that allows infiltration of stormwater.
Screening shall be provided and established to protect and screen abutting
residential districts.
         (e)   MU-2 and MU-3 Districts. All areas, except for buildings,
driveways and approved parking areas, shall be landscaped as described above.
Where possible, a minimum of 2% of the site may provide for diversified
landscaping that allows infiltration of stormwater. Screening shall be provided
and established to protect and screen abutting residential districts.
      5.   Required yards and setbacks.
         (a)   All developed uses shall consist of, but not limited to, a
landscaped yard, including grass, plantings, decorative stones, trees and
shrubs, along all streets.
         (b)   Except for driveways, the yard shall extend along the entire
frontage of the lot, and along both streets in the case of a corner lot, such
yard shall have a depth of at least ten feet.
         (c)   Required yards and setback areas, except driveways and areas
used for accessory structures, shall be graded to final elevations and sodded
or seeded and landscaped with grass, plantings, decorative stones, trees and
shrubs.
      6.   Interior parking landscaping.  The purpose of interior parking lot
landscaping is to improve the appearance of parking lots, provide shade, and
improve stormwater infiltration. The following standards apply to those lots
with seven or more spaces:
         (a)   A planting island with a minimum of one tree shall be installed
for every 12 parking spaces.
         (b)   The primary plant material shall be shade trees with at least
one deciduous canopy tree for every 200 square feet of required landscaped
area.
         (c)   Islands may be curbed or may be designed as uncurbed bio-
retention areas as part of an approved low impact stormwater management design
as approved by the City Engineer.
      7.   Screening. Screening shall be provided along the side and rear of
property boundaries between commercial, mixed-use, or industrial districts and
residential districts. Screening shall consist of:
         (a)   A solid wall, solid fence, or hedge with year-round foliage six
and one-half feet in height, except that within the front yard setback,
screening shall not exceed three and one-half feet.
         (b)   Height of the screening shall be measured from natural or
approved grade.
         (c)   Berms and retaining walls shall not be used to increase grade
relative to screening height.
      8.   Traffic visibility. In order to provide a clear view of intersecting
streets to motorists, a triangular area of clear vision formed by the two
intersecting streets and driveways and a line connecting said centerlines,
shall be kept clear of visual obstruction, as specified below. (see FIGURE 23)
         (a)   Within any vision clearance triangle, screening, plantings,
walls, fences or other obstructions are not permitted between a height of 30
inches and ten feet above the curb level, with the exception of fences with a
maximum of three feet in height and at least two-thirds open to vision.
         (b)   Where two streets intersect, the line shall extend a minimum of
40 feet from the intersection of the two street property lines.
         (c)   At the intersection of a private drive or alley with a street,
the line shall extend a minimum of ten feet from the intersection of the street
and alley or drive property lines.
      9.   Drainage, access & utility easements.
         (a)   No landscape material other than grass, or retaining walls,
shall be placed within a drainage, access or utility easement. Rock or riprap
may be allowed upon review and approval by the Zoning Administrator provided
the proposed material does not interfere with drainage, access or utilities.
         (b)   The city or utility companies may clear any plantings or
retaining walls positioned within an easement, access or utility easement. The
city is not liable for any damage to plantings or retaining walls constructed
within the city's easement.
      10.   Maintenance.
         (a)   Responsibility. Maintenance shall be the responsibility of the
individual property owner.
      11.   Tree preservation. Prior to the issuance of building permits for
all new and/or expanded uses, a tree preservation plan shall be submitted. A
tree preservation plan must be submitted and approved when existing trees are
used to meet a landscape or tree standard. The plan and its implementation
shall be subject to the review and approval of the City Engineer and Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator may exempt an applicant from the
submission of a tree preservation plan upon demonstration that such a plan is
not considered relevant to the site in question. Elements of the plan include:
         (a)   A written statement that the trees to be preserved are healthy.
         (b)   A site plan that is drawn to scale and shows:
            i.   All trees to be preserved on the site, their species and
diameter.
            ii.   The location of water, sewer, and other utility easements.
      12.   Completion. All proposed grading and landscaping shall be completed
within 90 days after the certificate of occupancy is issued. If a certificate
of occupancy is issued between the months of November and April 15, the 90 day
period shall begin to run on April 15.
   (G)   Low impact design.
      1.   Purpose and intent.  Low-impact development (LID) is an ecologically
friendly approach to site development and storm water management that aims to
mitigate development impacts to land, water, and air. The approach emphasizes
the integration of site design and planning techniques that conserve natural
systems and hydrologic functions on a site. Using the low impact development
approach, storm water is managed on site and the rate and volume of
predevelopment storm water reaching receiving waters is unchanged. The
calculation of predevelopment hydrology is based on native soil and vegetation.
Specifically, LID aims to:
         (a)   Preserve open space and minimize land disturbance;
         (b)   Protect natural systems and processes (drainage ways,
vegetation, soils, sensitive areas);
            i.   Reexamine the use and sizing of traditional site
infrastructure (lots, streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks) and customize site
design to each site;
            ii.   Incorporate natural site elements (wetlands, stream
corridors, mature forests) as design elements; and
            iii.    Decentralize and micromanage storm water at its source.
            iv.   LID is the preferred method of addressing stormwater
management unless proven infeasible.
      2.   Development goals.  The following principles shall be utilized by
the city when evaluating development proposals:
         (a)   Maximize retention of native forest cover and vegetation and
restore disturbed vegetation to intercept, evaporate, and transpire
precipitation.
         (b)   Minimize creation of impervious surfaces.
         (c)   Preserve permeable, native soil, and enhance disturbed soils to
store and infiltrate storm flows.
         (d)   Retain and incorporate topographic site features that slow,
store, and infiltrate stormwater.
         (e)   Retain and incorporate natural drainage features and patterns.
   (H)   Aviation requirements.
      1.   Purpose.  The Federal Aviation Administration is required to make
certain determinations of compliance to the U.S. airworthiness standards before
issuing any approvals or certifications.
      2.   Notifications required.  An applicant who proposed the construction
of any structure with a height equal to or greater than 200 feet above ground
level; or the alteration of any structure to a height which is equal to or
greater than 200 feet above ground level shall notify the Minnesota Department
of Transportation Commissioner and the Federal Aviation Administration
Commission of said proposal at least 30 days prior to the City Council's
consideration of said request.
      3.   Proof of notification. The applicant shall submit evidence to the
city verifying the Minnesota Department of Transportation and the Federal
Aviation Administration have been duly notified of said proposed structure
prior to the City Council approval.
   (I)   Alternative energy systems.
      1.   Purpose. To provide a sustainable quality of life for the city's
residents, making careful and effective use of available natural, human and
economic resources and ensuring that resources exist to maintain and enhance
the quality of life for future residents. The city finds that it is in the
public interest to encourage alternative energy systems that have a positive
impact on energy production and conservation while not having an adverse impact
on the community. The purpose of this section is to:
         (a)   Accommodate alternative energy sources by removing regulatory
barriers and creating a clear regulatory path for approving alternative energy
systems.
         (b)   Create a livable community where development incorporates
sustainable design elements such as resource and energy conservation and use of
renewable energy.
         (c)   Protect and enhance air quality, limit the effects of climate
change and decrease use of fossil fuels.
         (d)   Accommodate alternative energy development in locations where
the technology is viable and environmental, economic and social impacts can be
mitigated.
         (e)   Encourage development by establishing reasonable requirements
for performance, safety, design and aesthetics of alternative energy systems.
      2.   Ground source heat pump systems.
         (a)   Zoning district allowance. Ground source heat pump systems in
accordance with the standards in this section are allowed as a permitted
accessory use in all zoning districts.
         (b)   General standards.
            i.   System requirements.
               A.    Only closed loop ground source heat pump systems utilizing
heat transfer fluids as defined in this section are permitted. Open loop ground
source heat pump systems are not permitted.
               B.    Ground source heat pump systems in public waters may be
permitted as a conditional use in all zoning districts in accordance with this
section and subject to the following:
                  1.    Approval from the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources.
                  2.    Written consent of all property owners and/or approval
by an association in accordance with its adopted bylaws.
                  3.    Demonstrated compliance with applicable city permit
requirements.
               C.    Ground source heat pump systems in water bodies owned or
managed by the city are not permitted.
            ii.   Setbacks.
               A.   All components of ground source heat pump systems including
pumps, borings and loops shall be set back at least five feet from side, front
and rear lot lines.
               B.    Above ground equipment associated with ground source heat
pumps shall not be installed in the front yard of any lot or the side yard of a
corner lot adjacent to a public right-of-way and shall meet all required
setbacks for the applicable zoning district.
            iii.    Construction.
               A.   All access shall be over the owner's land and due care
shall be taken to avoid hazard, inconvenience or damage to public streets and
nearby public or private property.
               B.    Necessary precautions shall be taken in stockpiling
excavated materials to avoid erosion, dust or other infringements upon adjacent
property.
               C.   All wiring, installation of pipes, grading and all other
installations and construction shall be subject to inspection.
               D.    Disturbed land shall be restored to its prior condition
after completion of construction.
            iv.   Easements. Ground source heat pump systems shall not encroach
on public drainage, utility roadway, or trail easements.
            v.   Noise. Ground source heat pump systems shall comply with
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency standards outlined in Minnesota Rules Ch.
7030 as amended.
            vi.   Screening. Ground source heat pumps are considered mechanical
equipment and subject to the requirements for the applicable zoning district.
         (c)   Certification. Ground source heat pumps shall be certified by
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., and meet the requirements of the State
Building Code.
         (d)   Abandonment. If a ground source heat pump system remains
nonfunctional or inoperative for a continuous period of one year, the system
shall be deemed to be abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The
owner shall remove the abandoned system at their expense after a demolition
permit has been obtained in accordance with the following:
            i.   The heat pump and any external mechanical equipment shall be
removed.
            ii.   Pipes or coils below the land surface shall be filled with
grout to displace the heat transfer fluid. The heat transfer fluid shall be
captured and disposed of in accordance with applicable regulations. The top of
the pipe, coil or boring shall be uncovered and grouted.
            iii.   Lake ground source heat pump systems shall be completely
removed from the bottom of the body of water.
         (e)   Permits. A building permit shall be obtained for any ground
source heat pump system prior to installation. Borings for vertical systems are
subject to approval by the Minnesota Department of Public Health.
      3.   Wind energy systems.
         (a)   Zoning district allowance. Small wind turbine systems in
accordance with the standards in this section are allowed as a permitted
accessory use in all zoning districts.
         (b)   General standards. The following standards shall be applicable
to small wind turbine systems in all zoning districts:
            i.   Number. No more than one wind energy system is permitted per
parcel.
            ii.   Setbacks. The base of the wind turbine tower shall be set
back from all property lines a distance equal to the highest possible extension
of the system apparatus.
            iii.   Roof mounting. Roof mounted wind turbines shall be permitted
only when a determination is made by the City Building Official that the
underlying roof structure will support such system and all applicable building
standards are satisfied.
            iv.   Rotor clearance. No part of a rotor blade shall be located
within 30 feet of the ground and within 20 feet of the nearest tree, structure
or aboveground utility facility.
            v.   Noise. Wind energy systems shall comply with Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency noise standards outlined in Minnesota Rules Ch. 7030,
as amended, at all property lines.
            vi.   Screening. Wind energy systems shall be screened from view to
the extent possible without impacting their function.
            vii.   Aesthetics. All portions of the wind energy system shall be
a non-reflective, non-obtrusive color, subject to the approval of the Zoning
Administrator. Only monopole towers are permitted. The appearance of the
turbine, tower and any other related components shall be maintained throughout
the life of the wind energy system pursuant to industry standards. Systems
shall not be used for displaying any advertising. Systems shall not be
illuminated.
            viii.   Feeder lines. The electrical collection system shall be
placed underground within the interior of each parcel. The collection system
may be placed overhead near substations or points of interconnection to the
electric grid.
            ix.   Standards and certification.
               A.    Standards. Wind energy systems shall meet minimum
standards such as International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 61400-2 or
the American Wind Energy Association's (AWEA) Small Wind Turbine Performance
and Safety Standard or other standards as determined by the City Building
Official.
               B.    Certification. Wind energy systems shall be certified by
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory,
the Small Wind Certification Council or other body as determined by the city.
The city reserves the right to deny a building permit for proposed wind energy
systems deemed to have inadequate certification or testing for operation in a
severe winter climate.
               C.    Maintenance. Wind energy systems shall be maintained. A
yearly certificate of inspection and maintenance shall be supplied to the
Zoning Administrator. Such inspection shall be from a qualified engineer or
other body determined to be acceptable by the Zoning Administrator.
               D.    Utility connection. All grid connected systems shall have
an agreement with the local utility prior to the issuance of a building permit.
A visible external disconnect shall be provided if required by the utility.
            x.    Abandonment. If a wind energy system remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for a continuous period of one year, the system shall be deemed to
be abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall remove the
abandoned system at their expense after a demolition permit has been obtained.
Removal includes the entire structure including foundations to below natural
grade and transmission equipment.
            xi.   Permits. A building permit shall be obtained for any wind
energy system prior to installation.
         (c)   Residential district standards.
            i.   Mounting. All wind turbine systems shall be roof mounted.
Ground mounted systems are not permitted.
            ii.   Height. Wind energy systems shall not extend more than six
feet above the highest point of the roof.
         (d)   Mixed-use district standards.
            i.   Mounting. Subject to the requirements of this section, wind
energy systems may either be roof mounted or ground mounted.
            ii.   Height.
               A.    Wind turbine systems shall conform to the maximum height
requirements for communication structures standards of the applicable mixed-use
zoning district.
               B.    Wind turbine system heights in excess of the maximum
height requirement of the applicable zoning district may be permitted by
conditional use permit provided that:
                  1.    The system height, as measured from the base of the
tower for ground mounted systems, or base of the building for roof mounted
systems, to the highest possible extension of the system apparatus shall not
exceed 75 feet.
                  2.    The additional system height is required to allow for
the improved operation of the wind energy system.
                  3.    The additional wind energy system height results in a
net energy gain.
                  4.    The wind energy system does not adversely affect solar
access to adjacent properties.
                  5.    The wind energy system complies with all other
engineering, building, safety, and fire regulations.
                  6.    The wind energy system is found to not have any adverse
impacts on the area, including the health, safety, and general welfare of
occupants of neighboring properties and users of public rights-of-way.
                  7.    The criteria and applicable standards of this section
are considered and determined to be satisfied.
            iii.   Ground mounted systems.
               A.    Ground mounted wind energy systems shall not be installed
in the front yard of any lot or in the side yard of a corner lot adjacent to a
public right-of-way.
               B.    Only monopole towers are permitted.
               C.    System height shall be measured from the base of the tower
to the highest possible extension of the system apparatus.
               D.    Ground located wind energy systems shall not encroach on
public drainage, utility roadway or trail easements.
            iv.   Blade length. A maximum blade length of 15 feet is permitted.
      4.   Solar energy systems.
         (a)   Zoning district allowance. Solar energy systems in accordance
with the standards in this chapter are allowed as a permitted accessory use in
all zoning districts.
         (b)   General standards.
            i.   Exemption. Passive or building integrated solar energy systems
are exempt from the requirements of this section and shall be regulated as any
other building element.
            ii.   Height. Roof mounted solar energy systems shall comply with
the maximum height requirements in the applicable zoning district. Ground
mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 15 feet in height.
            iii.   Location. In residential zoning districts, ground mounted
solar energy systems shall be limited to the rear yard. In nonresidential
districts, ground mounted solar energy systems may be permitted in front yards,
side yards adjacent to public rights-of-way and rear yards.
            iv.   Setbacks. Ground mounted solar energy systems shall comply
with all accessory structure setbacks in the applicable zoning district. Roof
mounted systems shall comply with all building setbacks in the applicable
zoning district and shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the
building on which the system is mounted.
            v.   Roof mounting. Roof mounted solar collectors may be flush
mounted or bracket mounted. Bracket mounted collectors shall be permitted only
when a determination is made by the City Building Official that the underlying
roof structure will support apparatus, wind, and snow loads and all applicable
building standards are satisfied.
            vi.   Easements. Solar energy systems shall not encroach on public
drainage, utility roadway or trail easements.
            vii.   Screening. Solar energy systems shall be screened from view
to the extent possible without impacting their function.
            viii.   Maximum area. Ground mounted solar energy systems shall be
limited in size to the maximum area requirement allowed for accessory
structures or no more than 25% of the rear yard, whichever is less.
            ix.   Aesthetics. All solar energy systems shall minimize glare
toward vehicular traffic and adjacent properties.
            x.   Feeder lines. The electrical collection system shall be placed
underground within the interior of each parcel. The collection system may be
placed overhead near substations or points of interconnection to the electric
grid.
         (c)   Standards and certification.
            i.   Standards. Solar energy systems shall meet the minimum
standards outlined by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), the
American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers
(ASHRAE), ASTM International, British Standards Institution (BSI),
International Organization For Standardization (ISO), Underwriter's Laboratory
(UL), the Solar Rating and Certification Corporation (SRCC) or other standards
as determined by the City Building Official.
            ii.    Certification. Solar energy systems shall be certified by
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory,
the Solar Rating and Certification Corporation or other body as determined by
the Zoning Administrator for conformance to IEC or AWEA standards. The city
reserves the right to deny a building permit for proposed solar energy systems
deemed to have inadequate certification.
            iii.   Utility connection. All grid connected systems shall have an
agreement with the local utility prior to the issuance of a building permit. A
visible external disconnect shall be provided if required by the utility.
         (d)   Abandonment. If a solar energy system remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for a continuous period of one year, the system shall be deemed to
be abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall remove the
abandoned system at their expense after a demolition permit has been obtained.
Removal includes the entire structure including transmission equipment.
         (e)   Permit. A building permit shall be obtained for any solar energy
system prior to installation.
      5.   Application criteria for deviations from standards. Deviations to
the standards in this section may be permitted as a conditional use. In
granting a conditional use permit, the City Council shall consider the
following additional criteria unique to alternative energy systems:
         (a)   That the deviation is required to allow for the improved
operation of the alternative energy system.
         (b)   That the alternative energy system has a net energy gain.
         (c)   That the alternative energy system does not adversely affect
solar or wind access to adjacent properties.
         (d)   That the alternative energy system complies with all other
engineering, building, safety and fire regulations.
         (e)   That the alternative energy system is found to not have any
adverse impacts on the area, including the health, safety and general welfare
of occupants of neighboring properties and users of public rights-of-way.
   (J)   Off street parking & loading.
      1.   Purpose.  The purpose of this section is to provide for off-street
parking and loading areas and pedestrian facilities that are accessible,
attractive, secure, maintained and meet the needs generated by specific uses.
It is further the intent of these regulations to avoid undue congestion on
public streets; to protect the level of service and capacity of existing
streets; to avoid unnecessary conflicts between pedestrians and vehicles; to
preserve and enhance the city and to protect the public health, safety and
welfare. Refer to § 72.04 for additional vehicular regulations.
      2.   Application of parking and loading regulations. The application of
off-street parking and loading regulations shall apply to all buildings and
uses of land established after the effective date of this section.
      3.   General standards.
         (a)   General standards for commercial, industrial, institutional and
attached residential uses.
            i.   Minimum size regulations. Each space for a passenger vehicle
shall contain a minimum area of not less than 180 square feet, exclusive of
access drives, a width of not less than nine feet and a depth of not less than
20 feet. Each space intended for commercial vehicle parking shall have a
minimum area and dimensions as determined by the City Engineer. All loading
spaces shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of each use and shall
provide adequate space for storage and maneuvering of the vehicles they are
designed to serve. Parking ramps and underground parking may be allowed to have
some reduction in the dimensions stated above.
            ii.   Use of parking and loading space. Required parking or loading
space shall not be used for storage of goods or for storage of vehicles that
are inoperable or for sale or rent.
            iii.   Computing requirements. In computing the number of such
parking spaces required, the following rules shall govern:
               A.    Floor area shall mean the gross floor area of the specific
use;
               B.    Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces
required shall be construed to be the nearest whole number.
            iv.   Buffer fences and planting screens. Off-street parking and
loading areas near or adjoining residence districts shall be screened by a
buffer fence of adequate design or a planted buffer screen; plans of such
screen or fence shall be submitted for approval as part of the required site
plan, and such fence or landscaping shall be installed as part of the initial
construction.
            v.   Access.
               A.    Parking and loading space shall have proper access from a
public right-of-way or internal to the parking area as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
               B.   The number and width of access drives shall be so located
as to minimize traffic congestion and traffic hazard.
            vi.   Combined facilities.
               A.    Except in the R-1 District, combined or joint parking
facilities may be provided for one or more buildings or uses, provided that the
total number of spaces shall equal the sum of the requirements for each
building or use.
               B.    Underground parking bonus. If 50% or more of the required
parking is provided underground or under the principal structure, 300 square
feet shall be added as lot area for each space, so placed, and said lot area
shall be used to determine the maximum allowable use of the property; for
example, the number of dwelling units or the floor area ratio for an office
building, provided the maximum bonus shall not increase the number of units or
floor area by more than 30%.
            vii.   Lighting. Lighting shall meet the requirements specified in
the zoning district and for the specific use where stated.
            viii.   Required site plan. Application for a building permit shall
include a site plan drawn to scale and dimensioned showing off-street parking
and loading space to be provided in compliance with this section. The site plan
shall include an acceptable drainage plan.
         (b)   General standards for detached residential uses.
            i.   Minimum size regulations. Each space for a passenger vehicle
shall contain a minimum area of not less than 180 square feet, exclusive of
access drives, a width of not less than nine feet and a depth of not less than
20 feet.
      4.   Construction and maintenance.
         (a)   Surfacing. Parking areas, driveways, and parking lots shall be
surfaced with an all-weather dustless material consisting of bituminous, brick,
concrete pavers or concrete or an alternative material as approved by the
Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Six or more spaces. Parking lots containing more than six spaces
and access drives, except for landscaped areas, shall provide proper surface
drainage as required by the city. The surface shall be capable of carrying a
load of 2,000 pounds per square foot. (Normally a two-inch bituminous surfacing
on a four-inch base of five inches of Portland cement will meet this
requirement). Such parking lots shall be delineated by a concrete box curb
extending six inches above and six inches below the surface. The curb shall
have cuts for drainage. Parking spaces shall be striped. Parking lots which do
not meet these requirements must be improved by consistent with this section
and must meet ordinance requirements regarding location and other provisions of
this code.
         (c)   Maintenance. The operator of the principal building or use shall
maintain parking and loading areas, and access drives in a neat and adequate
manner.
         (d)   Grades. The grade of a private roadway, driveways and parking
lots shall not exceed 10% or a grade acceptable to the City Engineer.
      5.   Loading areas. 
         (a)   Loading and unloading areas for goods, supplies and services
shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of each use. At a minimum, one
loading dock shall be provided for each nonresidential building having over
20,000 square feet of floor area if the use is retail sales or services. For
all other uses, at least one loading dock shall be provided if the building has
over 50,000 square feet of floor area.
         (b)   Loading spaces shall be at least 35 feet long and ten feet wide,
and shall have a height clearance of at least 13 feet.
      6.   Proof of parking area.
         (a)   When the required off-street parking is 30 or more spaces, the
owner is only required to pave and stripe 80% of the required parking spaces if
the following conditions are met:
            i.   A parking plan drawn to scale for the property is submitted to
the Zoning Administrator and the plan indicates that the site complies with the
total parking requirements stated above and with the parking lot design to the
standards required by this section;
            ii.   The portion of the site which is not paved and is capable of
containing the amount of parking equal to the difference between the total
amount of required parking and the amount of parking required to be paved
(known as the proof of parking area) is suitably landscaped and curbed to meet
the requirements of this section;
            iii.   The proof of parking area shall be clearly delineated on the
parking plan for the site;
            iv.   The proof of parking area is not used to satisfy any other
landscaping or other requirement and is not located in an area occupied by a
building;
            v.   The property owner is responsible for informing any subsequent
owner of the proof of parking area and parking status of the property;
            vi.   The city may, at its sole discretion, require that the proof
of parking area be paved and striped in such a way that it meets the
requirements to provide the total number of required parking spaces on the site
or a percentage between 80% and 100% if so determined by the city.
      7.   Bicycle parking.
         (a)   New development. Bicycle parking shall be provided for all new
commercial, industrial, community service use, and multifamily residential
development.
         (b)   Number of spaces. The number of bicycle parking spaces shall be
at least 10% of the minimum required vehicle parking for the use. In no case
shall less than two spaces be provided.
         (c)   Location of facilities. Bicycle parking facilities shall be
located within 50 feet of the main building entrance in a location that is
visible to building occupants of from the main parking lot.
         (d)   The public right-of-way may be utilized for bicycle parking when
parking cannot be reasonable accommodated on the site and the location is
convenient to the building's front entrance.
         (e)   The minimum amount of required parking for all non-single-family
residential uses may be reduced by up to 10% for the provision of bicycle
parking. A reduction of one vehicle parking space is allowed for every six
additional bicycle parking spaces installed. The area of an existing parking
space in an off-street parking area may be converted to bicycle parking to
utilize this reduction.
      8.   Car sharing.
         (a)   Required parking may be reduced by up to 5% if at least one off-
street parking space is reserved for a vehicle that is part of a car sharing
program. The car sharing program shall be sufficiently large enough, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator, to be accessible to persons throughout
North St. Paul and its vicinity. The applicant must provide documentation from
the car sharing program that the program will utilize the space provided.
      9.   Off-street parking standards for residential districts.
         (a)   Vehicles may be parked in residential districts per the
following table:
 
 
Type of      Permitted Number Time Limit
Vehicle      Location
             Garage,
             driveway,
Passenger    side      No
Automobile   yard, or  limit  No limit
             rear yard
             surfaced
             area
             Garage,
             driveway,
Type 1       side      Two
Commercial   yard, or  per    No limit
Vehicle      rear yard lot
             surfaced
             area
Type 2                 One
Commercial   Garage    per    No limit
Vehicle                lot
             Garage,          Front yard: No limit
             driveway,        Garage: No limit
Recreational side yard Two    Side yard or rear yard surfaced area: No limit provided the
Vehicle      or rear   per    vehicle is adequately screened per § 154.010(D)(32)(c)
             yard      lot    Must be in compliance with off-street parking regulations
             surfaced         including setbacks
             area
             Garage,          Front yard: no longer than a 72-hour period, or while being
             driveway,        actively loaded or unloaded
Large        side      One    Garage: No limit
Recreational yard, or  per    Side yard or rear yard surfaced area: No limit provided the
Vehicle      rear yard lot    vehicle is adequately screened per § 154.010(D)(32)(c)
             surfaced         Must be in compliance with off-street parking regulations
             area             including setbacks
                            
 
         (b)   Paved surface. All vehicles personal, recreational, or
commercial shall be stored or parked on a driveway surface.
         (c)   Setbacks. New driveways and off-street parking shall be set back
a minimum of three feet from side property lines.
         (d)   Location of parking. Required off-street parking spaces shall be
provided on the same lot.
         (e)   Driveways, authorized parking areas, and authorized garages.
            i.   Driveways must lead to an authorized parking area or lead to
and abut a vehicle access door having a width of at least eight feet. Driveways
must not exceed a 22 foot maximum width at the property line.
            ii.   Existing driveways which provide access to an authorized
parking area or garage shall be improved/surfaced according to this section;
however, if the driveway leads to an unpaved street or alley, a waiver to the
surface requirement will be considered by the city upon receipt of a written
request explaining the reason and justification for this request.
            iii.   Required number of off-street parking spaces. The minimum
number of required off-street parking spaces are located in Table 8.
            iv.   Parking. Vehicles parked in a driveway must be located at
least ten feet from the curb or roadway. Parked vehicles are not allowed to
extend or encroach upon the alley or public sidewalk.
            v.   Driveways located on a corner lot shall be set back a minimum
of 15 feet from the corner of the two streets fronting the lot.
      10.   Off-street parking and loading standards for non-residential
districts.
         (a)   Shared parking. Up to 50% of the parking can be provided through
a nonexclusive agreement with the owners of property located within 600 feet of
the use if the parking demands of the uses do not coincide.
         (b)   MU-1. Location of curb cuts so that no cuts exist closer to an
intersection than 30 feet from the point of intersection of the setback lines
adjacent to intersecting streets.
         (c)   MU-2. The city may waive some or all off-street parking and
loading requirements due to the presence of: small lot size, building coverage,
existing municipal parking lots, assessments to properties for off-street
parking, on-street parking bays and similar provisions and the need to have
street frontages used for retail sales and service uses and not off-street
parking.
         (d)   Parking lots should be screened from streets and sidewalks by
planters or plantings or both. If planters are used, their material should be
compatible with adjacent buildings. Planters should be at least 18 inches high.
         (e)   MU-3. Off-street parking may be reduced where it can be
demonstrated that such reduction is justified due to joint use of facilities
for dissimilar uses, provisions for transit facilities or other factors having
impact on parking demand and capacity.
         (f)   Parking lots and structures. Such parking shall be screened from
view, integrated within the buildings or provided underground, where
appropriate.
         (g)   Required number of off-street parking spaces. The minimum number
of required off-street parking spaces for the following uses shall be as
indicated on Table 8. Where a specific use is not listed, the Zoning
Administrator shall determine the minimum number of required off-street parking
spaces by considering functional similarities between uses listed and the use
not listed.
         (h)   Yards. Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be
subject to the front yard, side yard, and rear yard regulations for the use
district in which the parking is located, except in the MU-1, MU-2, and MU-
3 Districts, yard setbacks may be reduced if a substantial landscape setback is
provided having a width meeting at least the minimum specified.
   (K)   Stormwater management.
      1.   Purpose.  The purpose of erosion and sediment control is to control
or eliminate soil erosion and sedimentation within the city. It establishes
standards and specifications for conservation practices and planning activities
which minimize soil erosion and sedimentation.
      2.   Incorporation by reference.  The following are hereby incorporated
into this chapter by reference:
         (a)   The city hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
standards established by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency's NPDES/SDS
Construction Stormwater General Permit MNR100001 (CSW Permit) as amended in its
entirety as now constituted and from time to time amended.
         (b)   The city's Engineering Design Standards for Stormwater
Management. These standards shall serve as the official guide for erosion and
sediment control principles, methods, and practices for proposed development
activities. The city's Engineering Design Standards for Stormwater Management
are incorporated into this chapter by reference.
         (c)   The Rules of the Ramsey- Washington Metro Watershed District, as
amended, pursuant to the authorization and policies contained in M.S. § 103B,
103D, and 103G, and Minnesota Rules 8410 and 8420.
         (d)   The Rules of the Valley Branch Watershed District, as amended,
pursuant to the authorization and policies contained in M.S. § 103B, 103D, and
103G, and Minnesota Rules 8410 and 8420.
      3.   Scope.
         (a)   No land shall be developed and no use shall be permitted that
results in additional water run-off causing flooding or erosion on adjacent
properties. Run-off shall be properly channeled into a storm drain, water
course, ponding areas, or other public facility.
         (b)   Except as exempted by the term "land disturbance activity" in §
154.003, any person, firm, sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, state
agency or political subdivision thereof proposing land disturbance activity
within the city shall apply to the city for the approval of the Storm Water
Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP). No land shall be disturbed until the SWPPP
is approved by the city and conforms to the standards set forth herein.
         (c)   Permits issued under this section apply to land disturbance
construction activities greater than or equal to 10,000 square feet and less
than one acre (43,560 square feet) and constitute compliance with Minimum
Measure #4 of MPCA - General Permit (MN R 040000 et seq.), Authorization to
Discharge Storm Water Associated with Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems
under the NPDES program.
         (d)   Permits for land disturbance construction activities involving
one or more acres are issued and enforced by the applicable districts permit
program and/or Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) - General Permit (MN
R100001 et seq.), Authorization to Discharge Storm Water Associated with
Construction Activity under the NPDES permit program.
         (e)   Permits issued by the applicable districts permit program and/or
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency - General Permit (MN R100001 et seq.),
Authorization to Discharge Storm Water Associated with Construction Activity
under the NPDES permit program constitutes compliance with Minimum Measure #4
of MPCA - General Permit (MN R 040000 et seq.), Authorization to Discharge
Storm Water Associated with Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems under the
NPDES program.
      4.   Flood control. Development and land disturbing activities must meet
the following criteria and that of the Ramsey Washington Metro Watershed
District or the Valley Branch Watershed District as applicable:
         (a)   The lowest building floor elevation of any new building shall be
placed at least two feet above the elevation of any known historic high
groundwater elevations for the area and at least two feet above the 100-year
high surface water elevation in the area.
         (b)   The lowest building opening elevation of any new building shall
be at least two feet above the projected 100-year high water elevation for the
area.
         (c)   An emergency spillway from ponding areas shall be installed a
minimum of one foot below the lowest building opening and shall be designed to
have a capacity to overflow water at an elevation below the low building
opening at a rate not less than three times the 100-year peak discharge rate
from the basin or the 100-year inflow rate to the basin, whichever is higher.
      5.   Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP). A developer engaged
in a land disturbance activity shall submit a Storm Water Pollution Prevention
Plan (SWPPP) that will minimize soil erosion or sediment from damaging adjacent
land, bodies of water, watercourses or wetlands to the city for its approval.
         (a)   Standards. No SWPPP which fails to meet the standards contained
in this section shall be approved by the City Council.
         (b)   Every applicant for a building permit, subdivision approval, or
permit to allow land disturbing activities greater than or equal to 10,000
square feet and less than one acre (43,560 square feet) shall submit a SWPPP to
the city. The SWPPP shall meet the requirements of the NPDES construction
stormwater permit and the city's Engineering Design Standards for Stormwater
Management prior to starting construction.
         (c)   The SWPPP shall include the following:
            i.   Project description. The nature and purpose of the land-
disturbing activity and the amount of grading involved.
            ii.   Phasing of construction. The nature and purpose of the land-
disturbing activity and the amount of grading, utilities and building
construction.
            iii.   Existing site conditions. Existing topography, vegetation
and drainage.
            iv.   Adjacent areas. Neighboring streams, lakes, residential
areas, roads and the like which might be affected by the land-disturbing
activity.
            v.   Soils. Soil names, mapping units, irritability.
            vi.   Critical erosion areas. Areas on the site that have potential
for serious erosion problems.
            vii.   Erosion and sediment control measures. Methods to be used to
control erosion and sedimentation on the site, both during and after the
construction process.
            viii.   Permanent stabilization. How the site will be stabilized
after construction is completed, including specifications.
            ix.   Stormwater management. How storm runoff will be managed,
including methods to be used if the development will result in increased peak
rates of runoff.
            x.    Maintenance. Schedule of regular inspections and repair of
erosion and sediment control structures.
            xi.    Calculations. Any that were made for the design of such
items as sediment basins, diversion, waterways and other applicable practices.
            xii.    Erosion and Sediment Control Plan. The Erosion and Sediment
Control Plan shall address the following criteria:
               A.    Stabilize all exposed soils and soil stockpiles;
               B.    Establish permanent vegetation;
               C.    Prevent sediment damage to adjacent properties and other
designated areas;
               D.    Schedule erosion and sediment control practices;
               E.   Use temporary sedimentation basins;
               F.    Engineer the construction of steep slopes;
               G.    Control the storm water leaving a site;
               H.    Stabilize all waterway and outlets;
               I.    Protect storm sewers from the entrance of sediment;
               J.    Properly manage and dispose of all hazardous and solid
wastes;
               K.    Take precautions to contain sediment when working in or
crossing water bodies;
               L.    Restabilize utility construction areas as soon as
possible;
               M.    Protect paved roads from sediment and mud brought in from
access routes;
               N.    Dispose of temporary erosion and sediment control
measures; and
               O.    Maintain all temporary and permanent erosion and sediment
control practices.
      6.   Review.  The City Engineer shall review the SWPPP within 15 working
days of receiving the plan from the developer. The city shall notify the
developer of its decision after receipt of comments from the City Engineer and
no more than 20 working days after receiving the plan from the developer.
         (a)   Permit required. If the City Engineer determines that the SWPPP
meets the requirements of this section, the city shall issue a permit valid for
a specified period of time that authorizes the land disturbance activity
contingent upon the implementation and completion of the SWPPP.
         (b)   Denial. If the City Engineer determines that the SWPPP does not
meet the requirements of this section, the city shall not issue a permit for
the land disturbance activity. The SWPPP must be resubmitted for approval
before the land disturbance activity begins. All land use and building permits
must be suspended until the developer has an approved SWPPP.
      7.   Easement.
         (a)   The developer may dedicate an easement to the city for any
permanent erosion and sediment control practice(s) that remain after the land
disturbance activity is completed.
         (b)   The developer shall be responsible for the maintenance of the
permanent erosion and sediment control practices for the period of construction
activity. The city shall assign the maintenance responsibility for a permanent
erosion and sediment control practice(s) after that time.
      8.   Modification.  An approved SWPPP may be modified upon submission of
an application for modification and subsequent approval by the city. In
reviewing such application, the city may require additional reports and data.
      9.   Escrow requirement.  Upon approval of a SWPPP, the city shall
require the developer to escrow a sum of money sufficient to insure the
installation, completion and maintenance of the SWPPP and practices.
      10.   Variance.
         (a)   In the case of restrictive site conditions or emergency
situations, the developer may
apply for a variance from this section. The city shall submit the variance
request to the appropriate district(s) within ten working days after receipt.
When the district's position on a variance request differs from that of the
city, the district's jurisdiction supersedes the city's.
         (b)   When road construction crosses municipal boundaries, Ramsey
County or the Minnesota Department of Transportation shall obtain an erosion
and sediment control permit from the appropriate district(s) rather than
individual cities.
      11.   Enforcement. The city delegates to the Ramsey-Washington Metro and
Valley Branch Watershed Districts the authority to perform the city duties
pertaining to review, permitting and enforcement of this section on properties
of one or more acres. All land disturbing activities between 10,000 SF and less
than one acre shall comply with the city's Engineering Design Standards for
Stormwater Management. For sites found to be non-compliant with the city's
Engineering Design Standards for Stormwater Management, the city shall
implement the following actions as necessary:
         (a)   Notice of violation. When the city determines that an activity
is not being carried out in accordance with the requirements of this chapter,
it shall issue a written notice of violation to the owner or applicant of the
project. The notice of violation shall contain:
            i.   The name and address of the owner or applicant;
            ii.   The address, when available, or a description of the land
upon which the violation is occurring;
            iii.   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
            iv.   A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the
development activity into compliance with this chapter and a time schedule for
the completion of such remedial action;
            v.   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and
            vi.   A statement that the determination of violation may be
appealed to the city by filing a written notice of appeal within 15 days of
receiving of the notice of violation.
         (b)   Stop work order. Persons receiving a stop work order will be
required to halt all construction activities immediately. This stop work order
will be in effect until the city confirms that the land disturbance activity is
in compliance and the violation has been satisfactorily addressed. Failure to
address a notice of violation in a timely manner may result in civil, criminal,
or monetary penalties in accordance with the enforcement measures authorized in
this chapter.
         (c)   Civil or criminal penalties. In addition to or as an alternative
to any penalty provided herein or by law, any person who violates the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
prosecution. Such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each day
during which the violation occurs or continues.
         (d)   Restoration of lands. Any violator may be required to restore
land to its undisturbed condition. In the event that restoration is not
undertaken within a reasonable time after notice, the city may take necessary
corrective action, the cost of which may, after notice and opportunity for
hearing, be specially assessed against the property and collected along with
the ordinary taxes by the county.
      12.   Violations.  Any person, firm or corporation who fails to comply
with or violates any of these regulations shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and be subject to a fine or imprisonment. All land use and building
permits must be suspended until the developer has corrected the violation and
amended the SWPPP for the land disturbance activity. Each day that a separate
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
      13.   Construction site erosion and sediment control and post-
construction stormwater management regulations.
         (a)   Submittal of site plans. An approved stormwater management
permit including a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) shall be
required prior to any proposed land development activity that meets any of the
following criteria:
            i.   Any land development activity that may ultimately result in
the disturbance of one or more acres of land, including smaller individual
sites that are part of a common plan of development that may be constructed at
different times.
            ii.   Land development activity involving greater than 10,000
square feet of land disturbance that discharges to an impaired or special water
as described in Appendix A of the NPDES/SDS construction stormwater general
permit.
            iii.   A subdivision plat.
            iv.   The construction of any new public or private road.
            v.   Any land development activity, regardless of size, which
results in a building permit application or the city determines is likely to
cause an adverse impact to an environmentally sensitive area or other property.
         (b)   Site plans must be submitted for review and confirmation that
ordinance requirements have been met, prior to start of construction activity,
per MS4 General Permit Item 20.4. In addition to general site plan
requirements, site plans required under this section must contain: [MS4 General
Permit Item 20.20].
            i.   All calculations for the permanent stormwater treatment
system;
            ii.   The water quality volume that will be treated through volume
reduction practices (e.g., infiltration or other) compared to the total water
quality volume required to be treated.
         (c)   Post-construction stormwater management BMP requirements. A
stormwater management permit must provide for stormwater management during and
following all construction activity. Stormwater management controls must:
            i.   Be designed with accepted engineering practices. [MS4 General
Permit Item 20.4].
            ii.   Treat the water quality volume on any project where the sum
of the new impervious surface and the fully reconstructed impervious surface
equals one or more acres. [MS4 General Permit Item 20.5].
            iii.   For construction activity (excluding linear projects), water
quality volume (calculated as an instantaneous volume) must be calculated as
one inch times the sum of the new and the fully reconstructed impervious
surface. [MS4 General Permit Item 20.6].
            iv.   For linear projects, water quality volume (calculated as an
instantaneous volume) must be calculated as the larger of one inch times the
new impervious surface or one-half inch times the sum of the new and the fully
reconstructed impervious surface. Where the entire water quality volume cannot
be treated within the existing right-of-way, a reasonable attempt to obtain
additional right-of-way, easement, or other permission to treat the stormwater
during the project planning process must be made. Volume reduction practices
must be considered first. Volume reduction practices are not required if the
practices cannot be provided cost effectively. If additional right-of-way,
easements, or other permission cannot be obtained, the owner/operator of
construction activity must maximize the treatment of the water quality volume
prior to discharge from the city’s MS4. [MS4 General Permit Item 20.7].
            v.   For non-linear projects, where the water quality volume cannot
cost effectively be treated on the site of the original construction activity,
the permittee must identify, or may require owners of the construction activity
to identify, locations where off-site treatment projects can be completed. If
the entire water quality volume is not addressed on the site of the original
construction activity, the remaining water quality volume must be addressed
through off-site treatment and, at a minimum, ensure:
               A.    Locations that yield benefits to the same receiving water
that receives runoff from the original construction activity.
               B.    Locations within the same DNR catchment area as the
original construction activity.
               C.    Locations in the next adjacent DNR catchment area up-
stream.
               D.    Locations anywhere within the city’s jurisdiction.
            vi.   Off-site treatment projects must be completed no later than
24 months after the start of the original construction activity. If the city
determines more time is needed to complete the treatment project, the city must
provide the reason(s) and schedule(s) for completing the project in the annual
report.
            vii.   Volume reduction techniques considered shall include
infiltration, reuse and rainwater harvesting, and canopy interception and
evapotranspiration and/or additional techniques included in the MIDS calculator
and the Minnesota Stormwater Manual. Higher priority shall be given to BMPs
that include volume reduction. Secondary preference is to employ filtration
techniques, followed by rate control BMPs.
            viii.   The use of infiltration techniques shall be prohibited
where the infiltration practice will be constructed in any areas that:
               A.    Receive discharges from vehicle fueling and maintenance
areas;
               B.    Where high levels of contaminants in soil or groundwater
may be mobilized by infiltration;
               C.    Where soil infiltration rates are more than 8.3 inches per
hour unless soils are amended to slow the infiltration rate below 8.3 inches
per hour;
               D.    With less than three feet of separation from the bottom of
the infiltration system to the elevation of the seasonally saturated soils or
the top of bedrock;
               E.   Of predominately Hydrologic Soil Group D (clay) soils;
               F.   In an Emergency Response Area (ERA) within a Drinking Water
Supply Management Area (DWSMA) as defined in Minn. R. 4720.5100, Subp. 13,
classified as moderate vulnerability unless the applicant performs a higher
level of engineering review sufficient to provide a functioning treatment
system and to prevent adverse impacts to groundwater;
               G.    Outside of an ERA within a DWSMA classified as high or
very high vulnerability unless the applicant performs a higher level of
engineering review sufficient to provide a functioning treatment system and to
prevent adverse impacts to groundwater;
               H.    Within 1,000 feet upgradient or 100 feet downgradient of
active karst features; or,
               I.   That receive stormwater runoff from these types of entities
regulated under NPDES for industrial stormwater: automobile scrap yards, scrap
recycling and waste recycling facilities, hazardous waste treatment, storage,
or disposal facilities, or air transportation facilities that conduct deicing
activities.
            ix.   Where the site factors listed above limit the construction of
infiltration systems, the applicant shall provide appropriate documentation
acceptable to the City Engineer regarding the limitations. If the city
determines that infiltration is prohibited onsite, the applicant shall consider
alternative volume reduction BMPs, and the water quality volume must be treated
by a wet sedimentation basin, filtration system, regional ponding, or similar
method prior to the release of stormwater to the city's storm sewer system and
other surface waters.
         (d)   Long-term maintenance. The recipient of any stormwater
management permit must enter into a long-term maintenance agreement with the
city that documents all responsibilities for long-term operation and
maintenance of stormwater treatment practices that are not owned or operated by
the city.
            i.   At a minimum, the long-term maintenance agreement must include
provisions that:
               A.    Allow the city to conduct inspections of structural
stormwater BMPs not owned or operated by the city, perform necessary
maintenance, and assess costs for those structural stormwater BMPs when the
city determines the owner of that structural stormwater BMP has not ensured
proper function;
               B.    Preserve the city's right to ensure maintenance
responsibility for structural stormwater BMPs not owned or operated by the
city, when those responsibilities are legally transferred to another party; and
               C.   Are designed to protect/preserve structural stormwater
BMPs. If structural stormwater BMPs change, causing decreased effectiveness,
new, repaired, or improved structural stormwater BMPs must be implemented to
provide equivalent treatment to the original BMP.
            ii.   The city must maintain a written or mapped inventory of
structural stormwater BMPs not owned or operated by the city that meet all of
the following criteria: [MS4 General Permit Item 20.16].
               A.   The structural stormwater BMP includes an executed legal
mechanism(s) between the city and owners responsible for the long-term
maintenance, as required in MS4 General Permit Item 20.15; and
               B.   The structural stormwater BMP was implemented on or after
August 1, 2013.
         (e)   Permanent stormwater management system design criteria.
Infiltration systems are prohibited in the following areas (See “higher level
of engineering review” in the Minnesota Stormwater Manual for more
information): [MS4 General Permit Item 20.9].
            i.   Areas that receive runoff from vehicle fueling and maintenance
areas regardless of the amount of new and fully reconstructed impervious
surface;
            ii.   Areas where infiltrating stormwater may mobilize high levels
of contaminants in soil or groundwater. To make this determination, the owners
and/or operators of construction activity must complete the pollution control
agency's site screening assessment checklist, which is available in the
Minnesota Stormwater Manual, or conduct their own assessment which meets or
exceeds the minimum standards of the Stormwater Manual screening assessment.
The assessment must be retained with the site plans;
            iii.   Within a Drinking Water Supply Management Area (DWSMA) as
defined in Minn. R. 4720.5100, Subp. 13, if the system will be located:
               A.   In an Emergency Response Area (ERA) within a DWSMA
classified as having high or very high vulnerability as defined by the
Minnesota Department of Health; or
               B.   In an ERA within a DWSMA classified as moderate
vulnerability unless a higher level of engineering review sufficient to provide
a functioning treatment system and to prevent adverse impacts to groundwater
has been approved by the city; or
               C.    Outside of an ERA within a DWSMA classified as having high
or very high vulnerability unless a higher level of engineering review
sufficient to provide a functioning treatment system and to prevent adverse
impacts to groundwater has been approved by the city.
         (f)   Minnesota Stormwater Manual. All volume control for water
quality and quantity and site design specifications shall conform to the
current version of the Minnesota Stormwater Manual.
         (g)   Site erosion and sediment control requirements. All erosion and
sediment control and waste control requirements shall conform to the current
requirements of NPDES/SDS construction stormwater general permit.
   (L)   Temporary family health care dwellings. Pursuant to authority granted
by M.S. § 462.3593, Subd. 9, the city opts-out of the requirements of M.S. §
462.3593, which defines and regulates temporary family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 739, passed 8-18-2015; Am. Ord. 748, passed 1-19-2016; Am. Ord. 753,
passed 7-19-2016; Am. Ord. 755, passed 10-18-2016; Am. Ord. 759, passed 12-20-
2016; Am. Ord. 760, passed 12-20-2016; Am. Ord. 764, passed 10-3-2017; Am. Ord.
770, passed 8-21-2018; Am. Ord. 783, passed 4-16-2019; Am. Ord. 799, passed 7-
20-2021; Am. Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022; Am. Ord. 818, passed 8-15-2023; Am.
Ord. 830, passed 7-16-2024; Am. Ord. 833, passed 8-20-2024; Am. Ord. 834,
passed 12-3-2024; Am. Ord. 835, passed 12-17-2024; Ord. 846, passed 8-19-2025;
Am. Ord. 848, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 154.011 RESERVED.
§ 154.012 VIOLATIONS AND MISDEMEANORS.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter, who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter or who shall make any false statement in any document required to be
submitted under the provisions thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished as provided in M.S. § 462.362. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 739, passed 8-18-2015)
APPENDIX A: TABLES
Table 1. Application Procedures
          Text      Map       Comprehensive Conditional Interim          Site   Design
Procedure Amendment Amendment Plan          Use Permit  Use     Variance Plan   Review
                              Amendment                 Permit           Review
             Text      Map       Comprehensive Conditional Interim          Site     Design
Procedure    Amendment Amendment Plan          Use Permit  Use     Variance Plan     Review
                                 Amendment                 Permit           Review
Pre-
Application  x         x         x             x           x       x        x        x
Meeting
Submit
Completed    x         x         x             x           x       x        x        x
Application
Pay Filing   x         x         x             x           x       x        x        x
Fee
Completeness x         x         x             x           x       x        x        x
Review
Public
Notice Legal x         x         x             x           x       x                  
Newspaper
Public
Notice                x                      x           x       x                  
Property
Owners
Public       x         x         x             x           x       x                 
Hearing
Additional
Commission   possible  possible  x                                       possible x
Review
Planning     x         x         x             x           x       x        x
Commission
City Council x         x         x             x           x       x        x        x
Applicant
Notified of  x         x         x             x           x       x        x        x
Action
Ordinance    x         x                                                         
Resolution                     x             x           x       x        x        x
Filing with           x                      x           x       x        x         
the County
 
Table 2. Submittal Requirements
Submittal    Text      Map       Comprehensive Conditional Interim          Site   Design
Requirements Amendment Amendment Plan          Use Permit  Use     Variance Plan   Review
                                 Amendment                 Permit           Review
                             Text      Map       Comprehensive Conditional Interim          Site   Design
Submittal Requirements       Amendment Amendment Plan          Use Permit  Use     Variance Plan   Review
                                                 Amendment                 Permit           Review
Completed City Application   x         x         x             x           x       x        x      x
(2) 24" x 36" copies, two
(2) 11" x 17" copies, and
electronic files of the
submittals completed and
signed by a registered                x                      x           x       x        x      x
architect, civil engineer,
landscape architect or other
licensed design professional
as approved by the City
            Scale of Drawing          x                                        x        x       
            Legal                     x                                        x        x       
            Description
            Dimensions of
A current   lot and north             x                                        x        x       
Certificate point
of Survey   Dimensions of
prepared    front, rear and           x                                        x        x       
and signed  side yards
by a        Indicate                  x                                        x        x       
Minnesota   Buildable Area
licensed    Dimensions of
land        proposed                  x                                        x        x       
surveyor,   driveway(s)
depicting   Location of all
the         existing                  x                                        x        x       
following:  buildings on the
            lot
            Location of the
            proposed                  x                                        x        x       
            building(s) or
            construction
            Location of
            stakes
            established by            x                                        x        x       
            the surveyor
            along each side
            lot line
            Location of all
            recorded and              x                                        x        x       
            platted
A current   easements
Certificate Two-foot
of Survey   contours and              x                                        x        x       
prepared    spot elevations
and signed  All                       x                                        x        x       
by a        encroachments
Minnesota   Proposed
licensed    drainage                  x                                        x        x       
land        patterns
surveyor,   Ponds, lakes,
depicting   rivers or other
the         water features
following:  bordering on or           x                                        x        x       
            running through
            the subject
            property
            Locate and
            depict all
            "Significant              x                                        x        x       
            Tree(s)" to be
            removed on the
            property
            Name and address
            of developer/                                   x           x       x        x       
            owner
            Name and address
            of architect/                                   x           x       x        x       
            designer
            Date of plan                                    x           x       x        x       
            preparation
            Dates and
            descriptions of                                 x           x       x        x       
            all revisions
            Name of project                                 x           x       x        x       
A Site Plan or development
utilizing a Proposed front,
copy of the rear and side                                   x           x       x        x       
current     yard setbacks
certificate Location,
of survey   setback, and
as a base   dimensions of                                   x           x       x        x       
for the     all proposed
subject     buildings and
property,   structures
depicting   Location of all
the         adjacent
following:  buildings
            located within
            100 feet of the                                    x           x       x        x
            exterior
            boundaries of
            the property in
            question
            Location,
            number, and
            dimensions of                                   x           x       x        x       
            proposed parking
            and loading
            spaces
            Sidewalks,
            trails, and                                     x           x       x        x       
            walkways
            Location of
            recreation and                                  x           x       x        x       
            service areas
            Location of
            rooftop
            equipment and                                   x           x       x        x       
A Site Plan proposed
utilizing a screening
copy of the Provisions of
current     storage and
certificate disposal of
of survey   waste, garbage
as a base   and recyclables,
for the     including                                       x           x       x        x       
subject     details for
property,   screening
depicting   exterior trash/
the         recycling
following:  enclosures
            Location of any                                 x           x       x        x       
            outdoor storage
            Location, size,
            and type of
            water and sewer
            system mains,                                   x           x       x        x       
            fire hydrants
            and proposed
            service
            connections
A Parking and Circulation
plan including location,
width and setbacks of
proposed curb cuts and
driveways, dimensions and                                                             x       
number of spaces, vehicular
service points of ingress
and egress and proposed
vehicular circulation
A Grading/Storm Water                                                                  x       
Management Plan
Sanitary Sewer and Water
Plan with estimated use per                                                            x       
day
Soil type and soil
limitations for the intended
use indicating the soil                                                                x       
conservation practice to be
used to overcome said
limitations
A Landscaping Plan
including:
Plant list including name,
size and root condition
(i.e. container or ball &
burlap).
Site amenities, including
bike racks, benches, trash
receptacles, etc.
Storage areas including
trash and loading.
Lighting (landscape,
pedestrian or parking area).
Irrigation.
Hard surface materials.
Labeling of mulching, edging
and curbing.                                                                            x       
Areas of seeding and
sodding.
Areas to remain undisturbed
and limits of land
disturbance.
Plants shall be depicted at
their size at sixty percent
(60%) of growth.
Existing trees eight (8)
inches or more in diameter.
Existing and proposed
utilities.
Site grading plan, including
stormwater management or
irrigation systems, if
applicable.    
A Lighting Plan illustrating
the location of all proposed
lighting units, light                                                                 x       
generated from the site and
details of all proposed
fixtures
            Elevations and                                                            x      x
            Sections
            Color drawings                                                            x      x
            or renderings
            Sample building
            materials of all
            principal and                                                             x      x
            accessory
            buildings
Architectur Type and color
al Detail   of materials
Drawings    used on all                                                               x      x
including:  exterior
            surfaces
            Perspectives
            showing the new
            development or
            infill building                                                           x      x
            in context of
            other buildings
            existing on or
            near the site
Typical floor plan and room
plan drawn to scale with a                                  x           x               x      x
summary of square footage
for each use or activity
A Sign Plan including the
type, location, and size of                                                           x      x
all proposed signage
Vicinity map showing the
property in relation to                x                                                 x      x
nearby highways or major
street intersections
Type of business or activity
and proposed number of                                                                 x      x
employees
Proof of ownership of                  x                       x           x       x        x      x
Property
Other submittals as required x         x         x             x           x       x        x      x
by specific zoning district
Any additional data          x         x         x             x           x       x        x      x
requested by the City
 
Table 3. Use Districts
Residential -              MU- MU- MU-
Household      R-1 R-2 R-3 1   2   3   Supplemental Regulations
Living
Single Family  P   P   P
Dwelling
Two Family     P   P   P               X
Dwelling
Multiple
Family                 P           P   X
Dwelling
Townhouse                              X
Dwelling           P   P   P*  P   P   * Subject to the restrictions within §
                                       154.008 (B)
Live/Work Unit             C   C   C
Manufactured
Housing (Home  C   C   C
Parks)
Modular        P   P   P
Building
Cottage            P   P               X
Development
Special Infill C   C   C               X
Housing
Residential -  R-1 R-2 R-3 MU- MU- MU- Supplemental Regulations
Group Living               1   2   3
Lodging House          P       C   C
Assisted
Living and/or
Memory Care
Facility       P   P   P           C   X
(serving six
or fewer
persons)
Assisted
Living and/or
Memory Care
Facility               C           C
(serving seven
or more
persons)
Residential
Unit over                  P   P   P
Nonresidential
Use
Senior Housing         C   C       C   X
Senior Housing         C   C       C   X
with Services
State Licensed
Residential
Facility       P   P   P   C   C   C   X
(serving six
or fewer
persons)
State Licensed
Residential
Facility               P   C   C   C
(serving from
seven to 16
persons)
Civic and      R-1 R-2 R-3 MU- MU- MU- Supplemental Regulations
Institutional              1   2   3
Cemetery       C   C   C
Day Care
Facility
(serving 12 or
fewer persons)
and Day        P   P   P   C   C   C   X
Nursery
(serving 14 or
fewer
children)
Day Care
Facility
(serving 13 or
more persons)
and Day        C   C   C   C   C   C   X
Nursery
(serving more
than 14
children)
Institutions   C   C   C   C   C   C   X
Municipal
Administrative
Building, Fire
Station or     P   P   P   P       P   X
other Public
Safety or
Service
Facilities
School,
Elementary or  C   C   C   C   C   C   X
Secondary
Public Park or
Playground and P   P   P   P   P   P
Open Space
Community      I   I   I   I   I   I
Garden
Medical        R-1 R-2 R-3 MU- MU- MU- Supplemental Regulations
                           1   2   3
Clinic                     P   P   P
Hospital                           P   X
Animal or
Veterinary                         P
Hospital or
Clinic
Medical
Cannabis                           C
Facility
Utility        R-1 R-2 R-3 MU- MU- MU- Supplemental Regulations
                           1   2   3
Essential
Service
Structure,
including, but
not limited
to, buildings
such as
Telephone
Exchange       C   C   C   P   P   P   X
Substations,
Booster or
Pressure
Regulating
Stations,
Wells and
Pumping
Stations, and
Elevated Tanks
Commercial -   R-1 R-2 R-3 MU- MU- MU- Supplemental Regulations
Lodging                    1   2   3
Bed and
Breakfast                      P   P   X
Establishment
Hotel or Motel                 C   P
Commercial -
Indoor
Entertainment, R-1 R-2 R-3 MU- MU- MU- Supplemental Regulations
Recreation,                1   2   3
Food, and
Beverage
Adult Uses                         C   X
Brewery,
Micro-Brewery,
Micro-                     P   P   P
Distillery,
Micro-Winery,
or Tap Room
Catering                   C   P   P
Club or Lodge              P   C   C   X
Coffee Shop or             P   P   P   X
Tea House
Cultural                   P   P   P
Center
Indoor                     P   P   P   X
Recreation
Restaurant                 P   P   P
Commercial -               MU- MU- MU-
Service or     R-1 R-2 R-3 1   2   3   Supplemental Regulations
Workplace
Animal
Boarding                           C   X
Facility
Animal                     P   P   P   X
Grooming
Artisan
Studio/                    P   P   P
Makerspace
Bank,
Financial                  P   P   P   X
Institution
Body Art                   P   P   P   X
Establishment
Business Sales             P   P   P
or Services
Personal                   P   P   P
Services
Educational                P   P   P
Services
Contractor's
Business with                      P
Showroom or
Workshop
Drive-In or
Self-Service               C   P   P   X
Business
Lab, Research              P   P   P
Funeral Home               C   C   C
Office                     P   P   P   X
Commercial -   R-1 R-2 R-3 MU- MU- MU- Supplemental Regulations
Retail                     1   2   3
Farmer’s                 P   P   P
Market
Garden                     C   C   P   X
Material Sales
Grocery                    P   P   P
Liquor Store               P   P   P
Retail Sales               P   P   P   X
Commercial -               MU- MU- MU-
Outdoor        R-1 R-2 R-3 1   2   3   Supplemental Regulations
Recreation
Outdoor        C   C   C               X
Recreation
Golf Course    C   C   C               X
Commercial -
Automobile,    R-1 R-2 R-3 MU- MU- MU- Supplemental Regulations
Parking,                   1   2   3
Transportation
Automobile
Service or                         C   X
Repair
Car Wash                           C   X
Automobile
Sales and                          C   X
Rental
Automobile
Service
Station/                   C   C   C   X
Convenience
Store
Transit                    P   P   P
Station
Parking                    P   P   P
Facility
Limited
Production,    R-1 R-2 R-3 MU- MU- MU- Supplemental Regulations
Processing,                1   2   3
Storage
Limited
Production and             P   P   P   X
Processing
Self-Service
Storage                            C
Facility
Warehousing                        P   X
Wholesale                  P   P   P
Establishment
Other Uses     R-1 R-2 R-3 MU- MU- MU- Supplemental Regulations
                           1   2   3
Uses
determined by
the Community
Development                P   P   P
Department to
be of similar
scale, impact
and character
Planned Unit   P   P   P   P   P   P   See § 154.008(C)
Development
Accessory Uses R-1 R-2 R-3 MU- MU- MU- Supplemental Regulations
and Structures             1   2   3
Accessory
Buildings and  P   P   P           P   X
Structures
Accessory      C   C   C               X
Dwelling Unit
Dependency
Living         P   P   P
Arrangement
Portable       P   P   P               X
Storage Units
Temporary
Buildings for
storage of     P   P   P               X
construction
materials and
equipment
Geothermal     P   P   P   P   P   P
Energy Systems
Solar Energy   P   P   P   P   P   P   X
Systems
Wind Energy    C   C   C   P   P   P   X
Systems
Wind Energy
Systems                    C   C   C   X
(excess
height)
Temporary      P   P   P   P   P   P   X
Outdoor Events
Temporary
Outdoor Events             C   C   C   X
(greater than
45 days)
Composting     P   P   P
Yard Sales     P   P   P   P   P   P   X
Day Care
Facility       P   P   P   P   P   P
(serving 12 or
fewer persons)
Day Care
Facility
(serving from  P   P   P   P   P   P
13 through 16
persons)
Group Family
Day Care
(serving 14 or P   P   P   P   P   P
fewer
children)
Home           P/I P/I P/I P   P   P   X
Occupation
Rain Garden    P   P   P   P   P   P   X
Surface        P   P   P   P   P   P
Parking
Outdoor                    C   C   C   X
Storage
Bulk Storage                       P   X
(liquid)
Communication  P   P   P   P   P   P   X
Structures
Outdoor                    P   P   P   X
Seating
Outdoor                    P   P   P   X
Display
Sport Court    P   P   P           P
Residential
Swimming Pools P   P   P           P   X
and Hot Tubs
Cannabis-
Related
Cannabis
Retail                         C   C   X
Business
Cannabis
Industry                       C   C   X
Business
Temporary                      P   P   X
Cannabis Event
 
Permitted, conditional, and interim uses in the residential districts.
1.   "P" means permitted in the districts where designated.
2.   "C" means allowed as conditional uses in the districts where designated,
in compliance with the applicable standards.
3.   "I" means allowed as interim uses in the districts where designated, in
compliance with the applicable standards.
4.   "X" means there are specific requirements in Section
154.010  (D) associated with a use.
Table 4. Residential Districts Lot Requirements
 
District      Minimum Lot     Minimum Lot Setbacks
              Area*           Width       Front Yard Rear Yard Side Yard
              6,250 sq. ft.
              per dwelling
              unit
R-1           Institutions:
Single Family 10,000 sq. ft.
Residential   Manufactured                                     Internal Lot: 6
District      Houses (Home                                     ft.
              Parks): 5,000                                    Corner Lot: 15
              sq. ft. per                                      ft.
              dwelling unit   50 ft.                           Senior Housing:
              3,630 sq. ft.                                    Internal Lot:
              per dwelling                                     15 ft.
              unit                                             Corner Lot: 15
R-2           Institutions:                                    ft.
Mixed         10,000 sq. ft.
Residential   Manufactured
District      Houses (Home
              Parks): 3,630
              sq. ft. per
              dwelling unit
              1,980 sq. ft.
              per dwelling                25 ft.     25 ft.
              unit
              Required total
              lot area shall
              not be less
              than the
              minimum lot
              area per
R-3           dwelling unit
Multiple      multiplied by                                    Internal Lot:
Family        the number of   80 ft.                           15 ft.
Residential   units.                                           Corner Lot: 15
District      Senior Housing:                                  ft.
              1,800 sq. ft.
              per dwelling
              unit
              Institutions:
              10,000 sq. ft.
              Manufactured
              Houses (Home
              Parks): 5,000
              sq. ft. per
              dwelling unit
 
* Tables 6.25 D. and F. from Model Shoreland Ordinance may be more restrictive.
Table 5. Residential Districts Design Requirements
 
            Maximum                                  Minimum       Limit of
District    Height        Lot Coverage Density       Livable Floor Surfacing in
                                                     Space         Front Yard
            Two (2)                                  Single
R-1         stories or 35                            Family:
Single      ft. in                     Low (3.0 -    One Story:
Family      height,       40%          7.0 units/    900 sq. ft.
Residential except flag                acre)         Two Story:
District    poles,                                   1,200 sq. ft.
            monuments and                            Two Family:
            chimneys,                                900 sq. ft.
            church
            spires,
            belfries or
            domes which
            do not
            contain
            usable
            spaces, and
            radio and TV
            reception
            towers may
            extend to a                              Single
            maximum                                  Family:
            height of 45                             One Story:
R-2         ft. above the                            900 sq. ft.
Mixed       ground, City               Medium (5.6 - Two Story:
Residential Water towers               12.0 units/   1,200 sq. ft.
District    may extend to              acre)         Two Family:
            a height of                              900 sq. ft.
            140 ft.                                  Townhome: 900
            Senior                                   sq. ft.
            Housing:
            Three (3)
            stories or 35
            ft. in
            height.
            Accessory
            Building: 15
            ft. except
            for Accessory                                          40%
            Dwelling
            Unit, then 20
            ft.
            Three (3)     50%
            stories or 35
            ft. in
            height,
            except flag
            poles,
            monuments and
            chimneys,
            church                                   Multiple
            spires,                                  Family:
            belfries or                              Efficiency
            domes which                              Unit: 400 sq.
            do not                                   ft.
            contain                                  One Bedroom:
R-3         usable                                   550 sq. ft.
Multiple    spaces, and                High (7.4 -   Two Bedroom:
Family      radio and TV               22 units/     700 sq. ft.
Residential reception                  acre)         Three
District    towers may                               Bedroom: 850
            extend to a                              sq. ft.
            maximum                                  Four Bedroom:
            height of 45                             1000 sq. ft.
            ft. above the                            Two Family:
            ground, City                             900 sq. ft.
            Water towers                             Townhome: 900
            may extend to                            sq. ft.
            a height of
            140 ft.
            Separate
            height
            restrictions
            exist for
            accessory
            buildings.
 
Table 6. Reserved
 
Table 7. Mixed-Use Districts Lot Requirements
 
                           Minimum
             Minimum Lot   Lot Area Front   Side Yard   Rear
District     Lot     Width Per      Yard    Setback     Yard    Maximum Height
             Size          Dwelling Setback             Setback
                           Unit
                                                                Three (3)
                                                                stories or 35
                                                                ft.
                                                                New mixed use
                                            0 ft.               buildings with
MU-1                                        When                residential
Downtown     10 sq.  20    1,980    0 ft.   abutting a  0 ft.   units above
Mixed-Use    ft.     ft.   sq. ft.          Residential         nonresidential,
District                                    District 20         office or
                                            ft.                 service uses
                                                                may be up to
                                                                four (4)
                                                                stories or 50
                                                                ft.
MU-2                                        Interior            Three (3)
Transitional 15,000  65    1,980    30 ft.  Lot: 15 ft. 30 ft.  stories or 35
Mixed-Use    sq. ft. ft.   sq. ft.          Corner Lot:         ft.
District                                    30 ft.
MU-3                                                           Five (5)
Corridor     35,000  120   1,089    25 ft.  0 ft.       0 ft.   stories or 55
Mixed-Use    sq. ft. ft.   sq. ft.                              ft.
District
 
Table 8. Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
Uses Number of Required Parking Spaces
PARKING-RELATED DEFINITIONS
Gross floor area (GFA): Total gross floor area including exterior building
walls of all floors of a building or structure. Also referred to as gross
square feet, or GSF.
Gross leasable area (GLA): The portion of GFA that is available for leasing
to a tenant.
Net floor area (NFA): Total floor area, excluding exterior building walls.
Net rental area (NRA): The portion of NFA that is rentable to a tenant. Also
called net leasable area.
ksf = 1,000 square feet
The total number of parking spaces = the total square footage, divided by
ksf, multiplied by the parking value
Uses                       Number of Required Parking Spaces
PARKING-RELATED DEFINITIONS
Gross floor area (GFA): Total gross floor area including exterior building
walls of all floors of a building or structure. Also referred to as gross
square feet, or GSF.
Gross leasable area (GLA): The portion of GFA that is available for leasing to
a tenant.
Net floor area (NFA): Total floor area, excluding exterior building walls.
Net rental area (NRA): The portion of NFA that is rentable to a tenant. Also
called net leasable area.
ksf = 1,000 square feet
The total number of parking spaces = the total square footage, divided by ksf,
multiplied by the parking value
Residential 
Single Family Dwelling
Residential- Family Living
Multiple Family Dwelling
Residential- Family Living
Manufactured Housing (Home
Parks)
Residential- Family Living
Modular Building
Residential- Family Living Single Family Dwelling
Planned Unit Development   Unit                      2 per dwelling unit
Residential- Family Living Multifamily Dwelling Unit
Special Infill Housing
Residential- Family Living
Townhouse Dwelling
Residential- Family Living
Two Family Dwelling
Residential- Family Living
Live-Work Unit
Residential- Family Living
Residential Unit over      Single Family Dwelling
Nonresidential Use         Unit                      2 per dwelling unit
Residential- Family Living Multifamily Dwelling Unit
                          Studio                    1.25 per dwelling unit
                          One bedroom               1.5 per dwelling unit
                          Two or more bedrooms      2 per dwelling unit
Cottage Development        Single Family Dwelling
Residential- Family Living Unit Multifamily Dwelling 1.25 per dwelling unit
                           Unit
Accessory Dwelling Unit    Accessory Dwelling Unit   1 space maximum per
Accessory Use              (ADU)                     dwelling unit
Lodging House                                        1 space per unit or room
Commercial Recreation,     Sleeping Rooms            plus 2 for owner/manager
Entertainment and Lodging
Hotel, Inn
Commercial Recreation,                               1.25 per guest room, plus
Entertainment and Lodging                            10 per ksf restaurant/
                                                     lounge, plus 30 per ksf
                                                     meeting/banquet room (<50
                                                     ksf per guest room) or 20
                                                     per ksf meeting/banquet
                                                     room (<50 ksf per guest
Bed and Breakfast          Commercial Lodgings       room)
Establishment                                        Peak spaces for each
Commercial Recreation,                               component shown; use
Entertainment and Lodging                            shared parking analysis to
                                                     determine appropriate
                                                     parking ratio for
                                                     particular hotel.


Senior Housing             Elderly Housing,          0.6 per dwelling unit
Residential- Group Living  Independent Living
Assisted Living and/or
Memory Care Facility                                 One space for each five
Residential- Group Living  Elderly Housing, Assisted residents, based on the
Senior Housing with        Living                    building design and
Services                                             operational needs.
Residential- Group Living

State Licensed Residential                           One parking space for each
Facility (serving six or   Group, Convalescent, and  four beds for which
fewer persons)             Nursing Homes             accommodations are
Residential- Group Living                            offered.
State Licensed Residential                           One parking space for each
Facility (serving from 7-  Group, Convalescent, and  four beds for which
16 persons)                Nursing Homes             accommodations are
Residential- Group Living                            offered.
                                                     Two parking spaces, plus
Day Care Center            Day Care Center           one space for every five
Civic and Institutional                              participants based on the
                                                     building design.
Hospital                                             One parking space for each
Medical Facilities         Hospital/Medical Center   350 square feet of gross
                                                     floor area.
 
Uses Number of Required Parking Spaces
PARKING-RELATED DEFINITIONS
Gross floor area (GFA): Total gross floor area including exterior building
walls of all floors of a building or structure. Also referred to as gross
square feet, or GSF.
Gross leasable area (GLA): The portion of GFA that is available for leasing
to a tenant.
Net floor area (NFA): Total floor area, excluding exterior building walls.
Net rental area (NRA): The portion of NFA that is rentable to a tenant. Also
called net leasable area.
ksf = 1,000 square feet
The total number of parking spaces = the total square footage, divided by
ksf, mutliplied by the parking value
Uses                      Number of Required Parking Spaces
PARKING-RELATED DEFINITIONS
Gross floor area (GFA): Total gross floor area including exterior building
walls of all floors of a building or structure. Also referred to as gross
square feet, or GSF.
Gross leasable area (GLA): The portion of GFA that is available for leasing to
a tenant.
Net floor area (NFA): Total floor area, excluding exterior building walls.
Net rental area (NRA): The portion of NFA that is rentable to a tenant. Also
called net leasable area.
ksf = 1,000 square feet
The total number of parking spaces = the total square footage, divided by ksf,
mutliplied by the parking value
Retail/Service
General Retail
Retail Sales and Services
Seasonal Business
Retail Sales and Services
Liquor Store
Retail Sales and Services
Secondhand Goods Sales
Retail Sales and Services
Service Business          General Retail (not in
Retail Sales and Services shopping center)           3.5 per ksf GFA
Sporting Goods Store,
Bait Shop
Retail Sales and Services
Business Sales and
Services
Retail Sales and Services
Animal Boarding Facility,
Kennel, Shelter, Day Care
Retail Sales and Services
Animal Grooming
Retail Sales and Services
Photocopying
Retail Sales and Services
Package Delivery Service  General Retail (not in     3.5 per ksf GFA
Retail Sales and Services shopping center)
Mortuary, Funeral Home
Retail Sales and Services
Garden Center
Retail Sales and Services
Food and Related Good
Sales                     Grocery (freestanding)     6.0 per ksf GFA
Retail Sales and Services
                         Discount Superstores/Clubs 6.0 per ksf GFA
                          (Freestanding)
                         Home Improvement           5.0 per ksf GFA
                          Superstores
                                                     4.0 per ksf GLA up to
                                                     400ksf; 4.0 to 4.5 per ksf
                                                     GLA sliding scale between
Farmer's Market                                      400 and 600ksf; 4.5 per
Retail Sales and Services Shopping Centers           ksf GLA over 600 ksf With
                                                     up to 10 percent GLA in
                                                     dining/ entertainment;
                                                     over 10 percent, use
                                                     shared parking analysis.
                                                     One space per 250 square
                                                     feet of floor area. If the
                                                     sales area is for large
Dry Cleaning, Commercial                             goods, for example,
Laundry                   Personal Care Services     carpeting, furniture,
Retail Sales and Services                            large appliances, the
                                                     requirement is one space
                                                     per 700 square feet of
                                                     floor area.
Laundromat, Self-Service  Coin-Operated Laundries    1 per 2 washing and drying
Retail Sales and Services                            machines
Auction Rooms             Other Heavy/Hard Goods
Retail Sales and Services (Furniture, Appliances,    3.0 per ksf GFA
                          Building Materials, etc.)
Contractor's Business
with Showroom or Workshop
Retail Sales and Services Other Heavy/Hard Goods
Furniture and Household   (Furniture, Appliances,    3.0 per ksf GFA
Goods Sales               Building Materials, etc.)
Retail Sales and Services
Small Appliance Repair
Retail Sales and Services
Auto Body Shop or Auto
Repair Station                                       2.7 per ksf GFA interior
Automobile Services                                  sales area, plus 1.5 ksf
Auto Sales and Rental     Motor Vehicle Sales and    GFA interior or storage/
Automobile Services       Service                    display area, plus 2 per
Auto Service Station/                                service bay
Convenience Store
Automobile Services
Car Wash                  Motor Vehicle Laundries    2, plus 1 per each 2 peak
Automobile Services                                  shift employees
 
Uses Number of Required Parking Spaces
PARKING-RELATED DEFINITIONS
Gross floor area (GFA): Total gross floor area including exterior building
walls of all floors of a building or structure. Also referred to as gross
square feet, or GSF.
Gross leasable area (GLA): The portion of GFA that is available for leasing
to a tenant.
Net floor area (NFA): Total floor area, excluding exterior building walls.
Net rental area (NRA): The portion of NFA that is rentable to a tenant. Also
called net leasable area.
ksf = 1,000 square feet
The total number of parking spaces = the total square footage, divided by
ksf, mutliplied by the parking value
Uses                       Number of Required Parking Spaces
PARKING-RELATED DEFINITIONS
Gross floor area (GFA): Total gross floor area including exterior building
walls of all floors of a building or structure. Also referred to as gross
square feet, or GSF.
Gross leasable area (GLA): The portion of GFA that is available for leasing
to a tenant.
Net floor area (NFA): Total floor area, excluding exterior building walls.
Net rental area (NRA): The portion of NFA that is rentable to a tenant. Also
called net leasable area.
ksf = 1,000 square feet
The total number of parking spaces = the total square footage, divided by
ksf, mutliplied by the parking value
Food and Beverage    
                          Fine Dining                     21.5 per ksf GFA 3
Restaurant-Tavern
Food and Beverages
Tavern, Brewery, Micro-    Causal Restaurant (with bar)    22.5 per ksf GFA 3
Brewery, Micro-Distillery,
Micro-Winery, Tap Room
Food and Beverages
Restaurant                 Family Restaurant (without bar) 16.0 per ksf GFA 3
Food and Beverages
Coffee Shop, Tea House     Family Restaurant (without bar) 16.0 per ksf GFA 3
Food and Beverages
                          Fast Food                       15.0 per ksf GFA 3
 
Uses Number of Required Parking Spaces
PARKING-RELATED DEFINITIONS
Gross floor area (GFA): Total gross floor area including exterior building
walls of all floors of a building or structure. Also referred to as gross
square feet, or GSF.
Gross leasable area (GLA): The portion of GFA that is available for leasing
to a tenant.
Net floor area (NFA): Total floor area, excluding exterior building walls.
Net rental area (NRA): The portion of NFA that is rentable to a tenant. Also
called net leasable area.
ksf = 1,000 square feet
The total number of parking spaces = the total square footage, divided by
ksf, mutliplied by the parking value
Uses                           Number of Required Parking Spaces
PARKING-RELATED DEFINITIONS
Gross floor area (GFA): Total gross floor area including exterior building
walls of all floors of a building or structure. Also referred to as gross
square feet, or GSF.
Gross leasable area (GLA): The portion of GFA that is available for leasing to
a tenant.
Net floor area (NFA): Total floor area, excluding exterior building walls.
Net rental area (NRA): The portion of NFA that is rentable to a tenant. Also
called net leasable area.
ksf = 1,000 square feet
The total number of parking spaces = the total square footage, divided by ksf,
mutliplied by the parking value
Office and Business Services
General Office                 General Business Offices        3.6 per ksf GFA
Offices                        Suburban/Low-Rise
Insurance Office, Real Estate
Office, Sales Office
Offices
Artist, Photographer Studio,   Office Downtown/Mid-High-Rise
etc.                           Business Center                 3.0 per ksf GLA
Offices
Artisan Workshop
Limited Production, Processing
and Storage
                              Data Processing/Telemarketing / 6.0 per ksf GLA
                               Operations
Clinic - Health                Medical Offices (multitenant)   4.5 per ksf GLA
Medical Facilities
Veterinary Clinic, Animal
Hospital
Medical Facilities             Clinic (medical offices with
Physical, Occupational or      outpatient treatment; no        5.5 per ksf GLA
Massage Therapy                overnight stays)
Medical Facilities
Medical Laboratory
Medical Facilities
Pawn Shop                                                     3.5 per ksf GLA
Retail Sales and Services
Bank, financial institution    Bank Headquarters (with admin   4.4 per ksf GLA
Retail Sales and Services      offices, etc.)
                               Industrial/ Storage/Wholesale
Wholesale Establishment        Utility
Limited Production, Processing Add spaces as required for      2.0 per ksf GLA
and Storage                    office, sales, or similar use
                               where more than 10 percent GFA
Limited Production and
Processing
Limited Production, Processing Manufacturing/Light Industrial
and Storage                    (single use)                    1.5 per ksf
Printing and Publishing
Limited Production, Processing
and Storage
Catering
Food and Beverages
Laboratory, Research and       Industrial Park (multitenant or 2.0 per ksf
Development                    mix of service, warehouse)
Limited Production, Processing
and Storage
Warehousing and storage
Limited Production, Processing Warehouse                       0.7 per ksf GLA
and Storage
Warehousing as primary use of
space                          Mini-Warehouse                  0.25 per ksf
Limited Production, Processing
and Storage
 
 
Uses                                      Number of Required Parking Spaces
PARKING-RELATED DEFINITIONS
Gross floor area (GFA): Total gross floor area including exterior building
walls of all floors of a building or structure. Also referred to as gross
square feet, or GSF.
Gross leasable area (GLA): The portion of GFA that is available for leasing to
a tenant.
Net floor area (NFA): Total floor area, excluding exterior building walls.
Net rental area (NRA): The portion of NFA that is rentable to a tenant. Also
called net leasable area.
ksf = 1,000 square feet
The total number of parking spaces = the total square footage, divided by ksf,
mutliplied by the parking value
Governmental
Municipal Administrative Building, Fire
Station or other Public Safety or Service Library 4.5 per ksf GFA
Facilities
Civic and Institutional
Post Office                               As determined by Zoning Administrator
Retail Sales and Services
Public Park or Playground and Open Space
Civic and Institutional                   As determined by Zoning Administrator
Cemetery
Civic and Institutional
 
 
Uses                    Number of Required Parking Spaces
PARKING-RELATED DEFINITIONS
Gross floor area (GFA): Total gross floor area including exterior building
walls of all floors of a building or structure. Also referred to as gross
square feet, or GSF.
Gross leasable area (GLA): The portion of GFA that is available for leasing
to a tenant.
Net floor area (NFA): Total floor area, excluding exterior building walls.
Net rental area (NRA): The portion of NFA that is rentable to a tenant. Also
called net leasable area.
ksf = 1,000 square feet
The total number of parking spaces = the total square footage, divided by
ksf, mutliplied by the parking value
Educational
                                                 One parking space for each
Schools, Public and     Elementary and Secondary classroom plus one parking
Private                 Schools                  space for each seven
Civic and Institutional                          students based upon design
                                                 capacity.
                                                 Determined by parking study
                        College and University   specific to subject
                                                 institution
 
Uses Number of Required Parking Spaces
PARKING-RELATED DEFINITIONS
Gross floor area (GFA): Total gross floor area including exterior building
walls of all floors of a building or structure. Also referred to as gross
square feet, or GSF.
Gross leasable area (GLA): The portion of GFA that is available for leasing
to a tenant.
Net floor area (NFA): Total floor area, excluding exterior building walls.
Net rental area (NRA): The portion of NFA that is rentable to a tenant. Also
called net leasable area.
ksf = 1,000 square feet
The total number of parking spaces = the total square footage, divided by
ksf, mutliplied by the parking value
Uses                       Number of Required Parking Spaces
PARKING-RELATED DEFINITIONS
Gross floor area (GFA): Total gross floor area including exterior building
walls of all floors of a building or structure. Also referred to as gross
square feet, or GSF.
Gross leasable area (GLA): The portion of GFA that is available for leasing to
a tenant.
Net floor area (NFA): Total floor area, excluding exterior building walls.
Net rental area (NRA): The portion of NFA that is rentable to a tenant. Also
called net leasable area.
ksf = 1,000 square feet
The total number of parking spaces = the total square footage, divided by ksf,
mutliplied by the parking value
Cultural/Recreational/Entertainment
                                                   One parking space for each
Institutions               Religious Centers       four seats based on the
Civic and Institutional                            design capacity of the main
                                                   seating area or areas.
                          Public Assembly
                          Arenas and Stadiums     One parking space for each
Theater, Assembly Hall,                            three seats based upon
Concert Hall               Theaters (live          design capacity.
Commercial Recreation,     performance)
Entertainment and Lodging
Sexually Oriented Business                         Single-Screen: 0.5 per
or Adult Uses                                      seat; Up to 5 screens: 0.33
Commercial Recreation,     Cinemas                 per seat 5 to 10 screens:
Entertainment and Lodging                          0.3 per seat; Over 10
                                                   screens: 0.27 per seat
                          Museum                  1.5 per 1,000 annual
                                                   visitors
Recreational, Community,                           At least 15 spaces, plus
and Neighborhood Centers   Health Clubs and        one additional space for
Commercial Recreation,     Recreational Facilities each 300 square feet of
Entertainment and Lodging                          floor area over 2,000
                                                   square feet.
Health/Sports Club
Commercial Recreation,
Entertainment and Lodging
Golf Course                                        At least 15 spaces, plus
Commercial Recreation,                             one additional space for
Entertainment and Lodging  Health Clubs and        each 300 square feet of
Indoor Recreation          Recreational Facilities floor area over 2,000
Commercial Recreation,                             square feet.
Entertainment and Lodging
Outdoor Recreation
Commercial Recreation,
Entertainment and Lodging
 
Table 9. Architectural Building Materials
Building  Trim/Accent Top of Building Middle of Base/ Bottom of Standards (See
Materials Material                    Building  Building        footnotes)
Building      Trim/Accent Top of   Middle of Base/ Bottom of Standards (See
Materials     Material    Building Building  Building        footnotes)
Brick (Face/  X           X        X         X                
Veneer)
Architectural X           X        X         X               A
Block
Wood/Wood     X           X        X                         
Composite
Fiber-Cement  X           X        X         X                
Siding/Panels
Concrete
Panels, Tilt- X           X        X         X               B
up or Precast
EIFS/Stucco   X           X                                C
Stone/Stone   X           X        X         X                
Veneer
Metal Panels  X           X        X         X               D
Vinyl Siding  X                                           E
Reflective
Glass/        X                                           F
Spandrel
 
A - Shall be used in conjunction with a palette of materials and shall not
comprise more than 33% of any building wall adjacent to a public street or
walkway.
B - Shall incorporate horizontal and vertical articulation and modulation,
including but not limited to changes in color and texture, or as part of a
palette of materials.
C - Shall not be within three feet of the ground or used in heavily trafficked
pedestrian areas or where high pedestrian traffic is anticipated.
D - Shall be used in conjunction with a palette of materials; shall be heavy
gauge metal, and; shall be non-reflective.
E - Shall be used in limited quantities due to its limited durability.
F - Shall be used in limited quantities as an accent material.
Table 10. Reserved
Table 11. Reserved
(Am. Ord. 753, passed 7-19-2016; Am. Ord. 783, passed 4-16-2019; Am. Ord. 792,
passed 6-2-2020; Am. Ord. 799, passed 7-20-2021; Am. Ord. 806, passed 7-26-
2022; Am. Ord. 835, passed 12-17-2024)
APPENDIX B: FIGURES
FIGURE 1.   Awning
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2396.png]
FIGURE 2.   Block, Front
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2398.png]
FIGURE 3.   Buffer
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2400.png]
FIGURE 4.   Build-To-Line
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2402.png]
FIGURE 5.   Building Or Structure, Accessory
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2404.png]
FIGURE 6.   Building Line
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2406.png]
FIGURE 7.   Canopy
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2408.png]
FIGURE 8.   Carport
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2410.png]
FIGURE 9.   Deck
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2412.png]
FIGURE 10.   Depth Of Rear Yard
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2414.png]
FIGURE 11.   Dwelling, Multiple Family
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2416.png]
FIGURE 12.   Dwelling, Single Family
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2418.png]
FIGURE 13.   Dwelling, Two Family
   Two dwelling units on one lot
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2420.png]
FIGURE 14.   Floor Area Ratio (Far)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2422.png]
FIGURE 15.   Lot, Corner
Lot, Double
Frontage/Lot
Through
Lot, Interior.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2424.png]
FIGURE 16.   Porch
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2426.png]
FIGURE 17.   Setback Front, Rear & Side
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2428.png]
 
FIGURE 18.   Residential Lot Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2432.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2434.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2436.png]
FIGURE 19.   Entrance Orientation
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2438.png]
FIGURE 20.   Variation In Roof Lines
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2440.png]
FIGURE 21.   Articulated Interval
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2442.png]
FIGURE 22.   Landscape Screening/Traffic Visibility
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d5f1277c4c9312042d36fba622959a8c08ab610f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2444.png]
 
CHAPTER 155: RENTAL HOUSING
Section
   
155.01   License
   
155.02   Re-inspection
   
155.03   Revocation, denial or non-renewal of license
   
155.04   Disorderly rental dwelling
   
155.05   Late fee
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required; exception. It is unlawful to own or operate a rental
dwelling in the city without first having obtained a license from the city. An
owner must obtain a license for each rental dwelling. If the rental dwelling
contains two or more units, and has a common owner and a common property
identification number, the owner shall obtain a single license for the rental
dwelling. A license is not required under this chapter if the owner is renting
to a relative. "Relative" means a parent, stepparent, child, stepchild,
grandparent, grandchild, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, nephew, or niece, by
blood or marriage.
   (B)   License application. The owner of a rental dwelling must submit an
application to the Fire Chief for a license on forms and in the format provided
by the city. The owner must give notice, in writing, to the city within five
business days of any changes to the information contained in the license
application. The application must include:
      (1)   A description of the premises;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone numbers of the owner(s) and agent;
and
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the refuse removal person
or company which supplies refuse removal services for the building.
   (C)   Agent. No license shall be issued or renewed unless the owner
designates in writing to the Fire Chief an agent who resides in any of the
following Minnesota counties: Hennepin, Ramsey, Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Scott or
Washington; or Wisconsin counties: Polk, St. Croix and Pierce. Said agent shall
be held responsible for maintenance and upkeep of the property and must be
empowered to receive service of notice of violations of the provisions of the
City Code, to receive orders and institute remedial action to effect such
orders, and to accept all service of process pursuant to law. An owner must
immediately notify the Fire Chief in writing of any change of agent.
   (D)   Inspection. No license may be issued or renewed unless the city
determines, following an inspection conducted pursuant to this section, that
the dwelling unit complies with all applicable state statutes and the city
code.
   (E)   Fee. The owner of a rental property must pay a license and/or renewal
fee in the amount set by ordinance by the City Council.
   (F)   Term. Rental licenses must be renewed annually.
   (G)   Posting. The rental license shall be posted in a common area in a
conspicuous place on the premises and shall not be removed except by the Fire
Chief or his designee.
   (H)   Transfer. Within 14 days prior to a change of ownership of a rental
property, a new license application must be submitted by the proposed owner and
to the Fire Chief.
   (I)   Disclaimer. Neither the city nor any employee thereof assumes
liability for the findings of an inspection or the quality of any property
inspected pursuant to this chapter or at the request of the owner. The issuance
of a license shall not be construed to represent a warranty or guarantee by or
on behalf of the city nor shall the issuance of a license be construed to imply
or warrant that a unit or property is: safe or free of any dangers or hazards
to the occupants or general public; free and clear of any violations of this
chapter or any other laws, regulations or codes; or free and clear of any
defects, including those related to any structural, fire protection, fire
prevention, building utilities or any other features of the property.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 155.02 RE-INSPECTION.
   (A)   Re-inspection. Re-inspection of a dwelling may be required by the city
any time one or more of the following criteria is met:
      (1)   Water, gas, or electric service to such dwelling has been
discontinued as a result of nonpayment for more than seven continuous days;
      (2)   The dwelling has, within the preceding three months, been the
subject of a written petition filed with the office of the City Manager, which
petition request that such dwelling be inspected and is signed by five or more
persons having personal knowledge of the dwelling or property, stating one or
more reasons why such dwelling should be inspected by the city; or
      (3)   The Fire Chief has probable cause to believe that there exists
within such dwelling one or more violations of safety codes which constitute a
serious danger to the health, safety, and welfare of persons living in the
dwelling, or which would make the dwelling a dangerous structure or unfit for
human habitation.
      (4)   The city makes a finding of disorderly use under §
155.04.
   (B)   Re-inspection fee. The owner of a rental property must pay a re-
inspection fee in the amount set by ordinance by the City Council.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 155.03 REVOCATION, DENIAL OR NON-RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Revocation, denial or non-renewal. The city may revoke, deny or
decline to renew any license issued under this chapter for part or all of a
rental dwelling upon any of the following grounds:
      (1)   Failure of a dwelling to conform to applicable statutory and code
requirements;
      (2)   Failure by licensee to comply with any provision of this chapter,
including §
155.04;
      (3)   Commission of a felony related to the licensed activity by the
licensee or agent.
      (4)   The city will provide notice and a hearing prior to the revocation,
denial or non-renewal of a license.
   (B)   Notice. At least five days before the hearing, the city shall provide
written notice in person or by certified mail to an owner whose license is
subject to revocation, denial or non-renewal. The notice shall specify:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   A statement of the charges;
      (3)   The facts supporting the grounds for the charges; and
      (4)   The applicant's right to be present and represented by counsel.
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   If the city makes a determination that it will be revoking, denying
or not renewing a license, the City Council shall conduct a hearing on the
matter.
The hearing shall be scheduled to occur at the next regular City Council
meeting, subject to the notice time requirement set forth above.
      (2)   At the hearing, the City Council shall hear all relevant evidence
and arguments and shall review all testimony, documents and other evidence
submitted. The owner shall have the opportunity to address the City Council at
the hearing.
      (3)   After the hearing is concluded, the City Council shall make its
decision on whether to revoke, deny or not renew the license. The City Council
shall provide written findings of fact, citations to any ordinances or
regulations that have been violated, and a statement of action taken.
   (D)   No occupancy. If a license is revoked, denied or not renewed by the
City Council, it shall be unlawful for the owner to thereafter permit the
occupancy of the rental dwelling. A notice of the action shall be posted by the
Fire Chief on the rental dwelling in order to prevent any further occupancy. No
person shall reside in, occupy or cause to be occupied that rental dwelling
until a license is obtained by the owner.
   (E)   Appeal. An owner may appeal the decision of the City Council as
allowed under state law.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 155.04 DISORDERLY RENTAL DWELLING.
   (A)   Disorderly use. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to see
that persons occupying the rental dwelling conduct themselves in such a manner
as not to cause the premises to be disorderly. For purposes of this section, a
rental dwelling is disorderly at which any of the following activities occur:
      (1)   Violation of M.S. §§ 609.755 through 609.76 as may be amended from
time to time, relating to gambling;
      (2)   Violation of laws relating to prostitution or acts relating to
prostitution as defined in M.S. § 609.321;
      (3)   Violation of M.S. §§ 152.01 through 152.027 as may be amended from
time to time, relating to the unlawful sale or possession of controlled
substances;
      (4)   Violation of M.S. § 340A.503 as may be amended from time to time,
relating to the underage possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages;
      (5)   Violation of M.S. § 609.33 as may be amended from time to time,
which prohibits owning, leasing, operating, managing, maintaining or conducting
a disorderly house, or inviting or attempting to invite others to visit or
remain in a disorderly house;
      (6)   Violation of M.S. §§ 97B.021, 97B.045, 609.66 through 609.67,
624.712 through 624.716, 624.719, 624.731 through 624.732 ,as may be amended
from time to time, relating to the unlawful possession, transportation, sale or
use of weapons;
      (7)   Violation of City Code §
130.01 or M.S. § 609.72, as may be amended from time to time, relating to
disorderly conduct;
      (8)   Violation of City Code Title 4,
Chapter 98, relating to nuisances.
      (9)   Violation of City Code §
91.13, relating to recreational fires.
      (10)   Violation of City Code Title 9,
Chapter 95, relating to animals.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Upon determination by the Fire Chief that a licensed premises was
used in a disorderly manner, as described in paragraph (A) of this section, the
Fire Chief must give written notice to the licensee of the violation and direct
the licensee to take steps to prevent further violations.
      (2)   If a second instance of disorderly use of the licensed premises
occurs within 12 months of an incident for which a notice in division (B) of
this section was given, the Fire Chief must notify the licensee of the
violation and must also require the licensee to submit a written report of the
actions taken, and proposed to be taken, by the licensee to prevent further
disorderly use of the premises. This written report must be submitted to the
Fire Chief within five days of receipt of the notice of disorderly use of the
premises and must detail all actions taken by the licensee in response to all
notices of disorderly use of the premises within the preceding three months.
      (3)   If a third or more instance of disorderly use of the licensed
premises occurs within 12 months after any two previous instances of disorderly
use for which notices were given to the licensee pursuant to this section the
city shall notify the license holder by mail of the violation and shall also
require the license holder to immediately undertake the process necessary to
remove the tenant from the property. If the license holder fails to comply with
the requirements of this section within 14 days, this constitutes a property
owner violation under §
155.03(A).
   (C)   Finding of disorderly activities. A determination that the licensed
premises have been used in a manner as described in division (A) of this
section shall be made upon a fair preponderance of the evidence to support such
a determination. It is not necessary that criminal charges be brought in order
to support a determination of disorderly use nor does the fact of dismissal or
acquittal of such a criminal charge operate as a bar to adverse license action
under this section.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   No adverse license action shall be imposed if the disorderly use of
the licensed premises occurred during the pendency of eviction proceedings
(unlawful detainer) of a tenant or within 30 days of notice given by the
licensee to a tenant to vacate the premises and the disorderly use consisted of
conduct by that tenant or guests of that tenant. This exception only applies
where the eviction proceedings or vacation of the premises are diligently
pursued by the licensee.
      (2)   An action to deny, revoke, suspend, or not renew a license under
this section may be postponed or discontinued at any time if it appears that
the licensee has taken appropriate measures which will prevent further
instances of disorderly use.
   (F)   Other remedies. The remedies provided in this section are not
exclusive, and the City Council may take any action with respect to a licensee,
a tenant, or the licensed premises as is authorized by the city code, state or
federal law.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 155.05 LATE FEE.
   A late fee shall be charged and collected whenever an owner applies for
renewal of a license after the expiration date of the previously held license.
A late fee will also be charged and collected whenever the owner or responsible
agent pays late any other fee imposed under this chapter. The owner of a rental
property must pay a late fee in the amount set by ordinance by the City
Council. Late fees shall be in addition to any other fees or payment required.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Notwithstanding the lack of a specific reference thereto, a violation of, or
failure to comply with any section, provision or requirement in this chapter
shall be a misdemeanor and shall be subject to the provisions of applicable
city code or state statutes. This chapter is a part of the city health, safety,
housing, building, fire prevention and housing maintenance codes, and a
violation thereof shall be deemed to be a violation for purposes of state
statutes allowing escrow of rent to remedy violations.
(Ord. 746, passed 12-15-2015)
CHAPTER 156: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
   
156.01   Property Maintenance Code adopted
   
156.02   Sections revised
§ 156.01 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED.
   That a certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk, being marked and designated as the current edition of the
International Property Maintenance Code, as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the city,
for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the city are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
156.02.
(Ord. 721, passed 3-19-2013)
§ 156.02 SECTIONS REVISED.
   The following sections are hereby revised:
   (A)   Section 101.1. Insert: City of North Saint Paul.
   (B)   Section 103.5. Insert: See City fee schedule.
   (C)   Section 112.4. Insert: [$0] [$0].
   (D)   Section 302.4. Insert: Six (6) Inches In Height.
   (E)   Section 304.14. Insert: April 1 — October 31.
   (F)   Section 602.3. Insert: September 1 — May 31.
   (G)   Section 602.4. Insert: September 1 — May 31.
(Ord. 721, passed 3-19-2013)
CHAPTER 157: SIGN ORDINANCE
Section
   
157.001   Introductory provisions
   
157.002   Definitions
   
157.003   Sign permits
   
157.004   General sign regulations
   
157.005   Sign area and location regulation
   
157.006   Standards for permanent signs
   
157.007   Multitenant buildings
   
157.008   Standards for nonpermanent signs
   
157.009   Prohibited signs
   
157.010   Exemptions
   
157.011   Nonconforming signs
   
157.012   Abandoned signs
   
157.013   Enforcement
   
157.014   Variances
   
157.015   Substitution clause
   
157.016   Severability
§ 157.001 INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is not the purpose or intent of this chapter to regulate
the message displayed on any sign; nor is it the purpose or intent of this
chapter to regulate any building design or any display not defined as a sign,
or any sign which cannot be viewed from outside a building. The purpose and
intent of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Regulate the number, location, size, type, illumination, and other
physical characteristics of signs within the city in order to promote the
public health, safety, and welfare.
      (2)   Maintain, enhance, and improve the aesthetic environment of the
city by preventing visual clutter that is harmful to the appearance of the
community.
      (3)   Improve the visual appearance of the city while providing for
effective means of communication, consistent with constitutional guarantees and
the city’s goals of public safety and aesthetics.
      (4)   Provide for fair and consistent enforcement of the sign regulations
set forth herein under the zoning authority of the city.
      (5)   Ensure adequate means of expression as allowed by the first
amendment of the U.S. Constitution and other federal, state, and local laws.
      (6)   Minimize hazards caused by signs that are structurally unsound,
interfere with sightlines or unduly distract drivers, pedestrians, or
bicyclists.
   (B)   Applicability. Any sign visible from a public street erected, altered,
or maintained after the effective date of this ordinance shall conform to the
regulations in this chapter.
   (C)   Interpretation.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion and protection of the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare.
      (2)   When any condition imposed by any provision of this chapter is
either more restrictive or less restrictive than similar conditions imposed by
any provision of any other applicable law, Municipal Code provision, statute,
resolution, or regulation of any kind, the more restrictive one which imposes
higher standards or requirements shall prevail.
      (3)   Any sign type determined by staff not identified by this code may
be considered by the Planning Commission at a regular meeting and its
recommendation will be forwarded to the City Council for review and action.
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 157.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
stated. All measured distances expressed in feet shall be to the nearest tenth
of a foot. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AWNING SIGN. A building sign attached to, affixed to, or painted on an
awning.
   BANNER SIGN. A sign made of fabric or other similar nonrigid material with
no enclosing framework or electrical components that is supported or anchored
on two or more edges or at all four corners.
   BENCH SIGN. A sign attached to a bench located on the street and designed
for seating while waiting at a bus stop.
   BILLBOARD. (Prohibited). An off-premises sign intended by the sign owner to
be available for sale, lease, or rental for the purpose of promoting any
commercial activity which is not situated on the same property as the billboard
or of promoting any product or service which is not primarily available on the
same property as the billboard; and incidentally used for the display of public
service messages.
   BUILDING SIGN. A building sign is attached to or supported by a building
whether it is the wall, window, or roof of the building. This sign type
includes awning, canopy, marquee, projecting, roof, and wall signs.
   CANOPY SIGN. A building sign attached to, affixed to, or painted on a
canopy.
   DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY. A residential structure containing three or more
dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A detached residential structure that is designed
for or occupied by one family only.
   DWELLING, TWO FAMILY. A residential structure containing two dwelling units.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER (EMC). A sign that can display words, symbols,
figures, or images that can be electronically changed by remote or automatic
means.
   FEATHER SIGN. A nonpermanent sign made of lightweight materials that is
prone to move in the wind, and that contains a harpoon-style pole or staff that
is driven into the ground or supported by means of an individual stand.
   FLAG. Any fabric or flexible material attached to or designed to be flown
from a flagpole or other similar structure.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign on a frame, pole, or other, support structure not
attached to any building. This sign type includes pylon, post and arm, and
monument signs.
   INFLATABLE (AIR ACTIVATED) SIGN. (Prohibited). A nonpermanent sign typically
made of plastic, cloth, canvas, or other light fabric, inflated with air, and
held upright, typically by mechanical means.
   INTERNAL WAYFINDING. A sign used to aid customers in circulation within
parking areas for multifamily or nonresidential uses. These signs could come in
the form of monument, pylon, post and arm, or wall sign types.
   MARQUEE SIGN. Any building sign attached to a marquee, a permanent roof-like
structure projecting beyond a building or extending along and projecting beyond
the wall of the building, generally designed and constructed to provide
protection from the weather.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A freestanding sign supported primarily by an internal
structural framework or integrated into landscaping or other solid structural
features other than support poles.
   NONPERMANENT SIGN. A sign structure or device that is easily installed and
removed and is not intended or suitable for permanent display due to the
construction, materials, placement, or installation.
   NONRESIDENTIAL USE. Any land use that is not a residential use.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. (Prohibited). A sign whose message is unrelated to the
premises or the activity and use occurring on the premises on which the sign is
located.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign whose message is related to the premises or the
activity and use occurring on the premises on which the sign is located.
   PERMANENT SIGN. A sign structure that is intended for permanent display due
to the construction, materials, placement, or installation. See also building
and freestanding sign definitions.
   POST AND ARM SIGN. A type of freestanding sign supported by a post and arm.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A type of building sign extending outward from the face of
the building.
   RESIDENTIAL USE. See dwelling, multifamily, dwelling, single family, and
dwelling, two family.
   ROOF SIGN. Any single or double-faced signs mounted upon the roof of a
building. This also includes signs painted or displayed directly upon the roof
surface.
   ROTATING SIGN. (Prohibited). A sign that revolves, rotates, or mechanically
moves.
   SIGN. A device, structure, or fixture which communicates a message using
words, graphics, letters, figures, symbols, trademarks, or other visual
representations. Painted wall designs or patterns are not considered signs.
   SIGN FACE. The sign face is that portion of a sign upon which the message,
advertisement or similar display is presented, as distinguished from the
structural members.
   WALL SIGN. A building sign mounted flat against a wall or painted on the
wall of a building or structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane
parallel to the face of the wall.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign posted, painted, placed, or affixed to the interior or
exterior of a window.
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022; Am. Ord. 812, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 157.003 SIGN PERMITS.
   (A)   Applicability. Permanent sign structures shall require a sign permit
in all districts.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   A sign permit application shall be submitted for all signs
requiring a permit.
      (2)   All sign permit applications shall be accompanied by a permit fee
according to the adopted fee schedule.
      (3)   A sign permit application shall be accompanied by the following
items:
         (a)   A site plan and/or building elevations showing the position,
height, and dimensions of the sign(s) in relation to all nearby existing or
proposed buildings, structures, and property lines.
         (b)   Written consent of the property owner of the building or site
upon which a sign is to be erected, constructed, or maintained.
         (c)   Such other information as the Zoning Administrator requires to
show full compliance with this and all other laws and ordinances of the city.
   (C)   Review. Sign permits are reviewed administratively by the Zoning
Administrator with a determination made within 30 days from the time an
application has been deemed complete.
   (D)   Appeals.
      (1)   Applicants wishing to appeal a determination by the Zoning
Administrator shall do so in writing within 30 days of said determination.
      (2)   Appeals from the Zoning Administrator’s determination shall be
heard by the Board of Appeals and Adjustment and a recommendation made to City
Council.
      (3)   The Board of Appeals and Adjustment shall consider the appeal
within 45 days of filing of said appeal by the applicant.
   (E)   Nullification. A sign permit shall become null and void if the work
for which the permit was issued has not been completed within a period of six
months after the date of the permit. A permit may be renewed and no additional
fee shall be collected for the renewal.
   (F)   Revocation. The city may revoke a permit when a sign is in violation
of this chapter or any other ordinance in the City of North Saint Paul. Any
signs installed under a revoked permit shall be removed within ten days of
written notice of the revocation.
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 157.004 GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. All permanent and nonpermanent signs, except official
traffic and street signs, shall conform to the provisions of this section and
any other ordinance or regulations of the city.
   (B)   Sign area measurement.
      (1)   The area within the sign frame shall be used to calculate the
square footage.
      (2)   The area without a sign frame shall be determined by drawing a box
around the outermost periphery of letters or graphics. The square footage shall
be that of the box surrounding the letters or graphics.
      (3)   Each side of a double-faced sign shall be considered in determining
the total display surface area.
   (C)   Sign height measurement. The height of a sign shall be measured from
the existing grade, or, if elevations of the centerline of the nearest frontage
street are provided by the sign applicant, this point of elevation may be used
rather than the existing grade.
   (D)   Setbacks. Unless specifically noted otherwise, all permanent
freestanding signs shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from any property
line and a minimum of five feet from any parking area or driveway. The city may
require a greater or lesser setback due to public safety reasons, which may
include the following conditions. vehicle sight distance, distance from
intersection, designation of adjacent right-of-way.
   (E)   Placement.
      (1)   No sign shall be placed in such a position as to endanger
pedestrians, bicyclists, or traffic on a street by obscuring the view or by
interfering with official street signs or signals.
      (2)   No sign may be located within a vision triangle as depicted in
Chapter 154, Appendix B, Figure 22 .
      (3)   Signs and their supporting structures shall not interfere with any
surface and underground utility or communications lines or equipment.
      (4)   No sign shall be mounted on chimneys, rooftop equipment, towers,
cooling towers, elevator penthouses, commercial antennas, communication towers,
belfries, church spires and cupolas.
      (5)   No sign shall be pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
      (6)   No sign shall be pasted or attached to city property or equipment
without permission from the governing body and shall be subject to all related
laws and ordinances.
   (F)   Materials and construction.
      (1)   All signs shall be constructed of durable materials using
noncorrosive fastenings.
      (2)   All signs shall be constructed in such a manner and of such
material to be considered safe and substantial.
      (3)   All signs and supporting structures shall be designed and
constructed to withstand wind pressure of not less than 40 pounds per square
foot of area.
      (4)   Signs which utilize electricity must meet the following provisions.
         (a)   Be installed in accordance with the current applicable
electrical code.
         (b)   All necessary electrical and building permits must be obtained
prior to placement.
         (c)   Electrical service to freestanding signs shall be underground.
         (d)   Exposed wiring or conduit shall not be allowed.
         (e)   All work shall be completed by an electrical contractor licensed
by the State of Minnesota.
   (G)   External lighting.
      (1)   Lighting must be directed at the sign and must be shielded (not be
visible to pedestrians, motorists, or neighboring residents or businesses).
      (2)   Lighted signs shall be no closer than 20 feet from the nearest
residential property and shall be illuminated only by white or amber light,
unless specifically allowed elsewhere in this chapter.
   (H)   Maintenance.
      (1)   All signs and components thereof shall be kept in good repair and
in safe, neat, clean, and attractive condition and in compliance with all
applicable building code requirements.
      (2)   All permanent signs shall be properly painted including all parts
and supports of the sign unless such parts or supports are galvanized or
otherwise treated to prevent rust.
      (3)   Any sign which becomes structurally unsafe or endangers the safety
of a building or premises, or endangers the public safety, shall be considered
a public nuisance and shall repaired or removed by the owner, agent, or person
having the beneficial use of the building, structure, or land upon which the
sign is located within ten days after written notification from the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022; Am. Ord. 812, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 157.005 SIGN AREA AND LOCATION REGULATION.
   (A)   Applicability. The following district regulations and sign standards
are applicable to all permanent and nonpermanent sign types.
   (B)   Acceptable sign types by land use. See standards for sign types in §
157.006 .
Sign Types Land Uses
Sign Types                Land Uses
Permanent                 Single-Family Two-Family Multifamily Nonresidential
Awning                    NA            NA         Allowed     Allowed
Canopy                    NA            NA         Allowed     Allowed
Electronic Message Center NA            NA         NA          Allowed
Freestanding              NA            NA         Allowed     Allowed
Internal Wayfinding       NA            NA         Allowed     Allowed
Marquee                   NA            NA         NA          Allowed
Projecting                NA            NA         NA          Allowed
Roof                      NA            NA         NA          Allowed
Wall                      NA            NA         Allowed     Allowed
Nonpermanent (all types)* Allowed       Allowed    Allowed     Allowed
Notes:
NA means “not allowed.”
*Refer to §
157.008  for a list of nonpermanent sign types.
 
   (C)   Sign dimensional standards. The dimensions listed below represent the
maximum aggregate square footage of all permanent sign faces on a site based on
the land use and zoning district.
Sign Types Land Uses
Sign Types                Land Uses
Permanent                 Single-Family Two-Family Multifamily Nonresidential
R-1                       NA            NA         NA          60 SF
R-2                       NA            NA         32 SF       60 SF
R-3                       NA            NA         60 SF       60 SF
MU-1                      NA            NA         60 SF       250 SF
MU-2                      NA            NA         60 SF       250 SF
MU-3                      NA            NA         60 SF       300 SF
Nonpermanent (all types)*
R-1                       32 SF         32 SF      NA          60 SF
R-2                       32 SF         32 SF      32 SF       60 SF
R-3                       32 SF         32 SF      60 SF       60 SF
MU-1                      32 SF         32 SF      60 SF       250 SF
MU-2                      32 SF         32 SF      60 SF       250 SF
MU-3                      32 SF         32 SF      60 SF       300 SF
Notes:
NA means “not allowed.”
*Refer to §
157.008  for a list of nonpermanent sign types.
 
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 157.006 STANDARDS FOR PERMANENT SIGNS.
   (A)   Awning sign.
      (1)   Signs shall not exceed 75% of individual awning area or awning
width.
      (2)   One awning sign per side of structure.
      (3)   The awning structure shall have a minimum eight-foot vertical
clearance above sidewalk or pathway.
   (B)   Canopy sign.
      (1)   Signs shall not exceed 75% of individual canopy area or canopy
width.
      (2)   One canopy sign per side of building.
      (3)   The canopy structure shall have a minimum eight-foot vertical
clearance above sidewalk or pathway.
      (4)   The sign may be placed on the front, above, or suspended below the
canopy.
   (C)   Electronic message centers (EMC).
      (1)   (a)   General.
         (b)   Non-conforming signs shall not be eligible for conversion to an
electronic message center.
      (2)   One electronic message center sign structure may be allowed per
street frontage, not to exceed two EMC sign structures per site. Each structure
may have two sign faces.
      (3)   Freestanding EMCs shall adhere to the height standards for
freestanding signs.
      (4)   EMC display.
         (a)   EMCs shall maintain no less than an eight second dwell time for
any images and messages.
         (b)   Any change from one static display to another must be
instantaneous and shall not include any distracting effects, such as
dissolving, spinning, or fading. Animation, motion, or video displays are
prohibited.
         (c)   The images and messages displayed must be complete in themselves
without continuation in content to the next image or message or to any other
sign.
         (d)   No EMC shall have a brightness level that exceeds 0.3 foot-
candles above ambient light as measured from the property line.
         (e)   All EMC signs shall include certification from the sign’s
manufacturer that the sign has been preset to conform to the luminance levels
noted above and these settings are protected from end users’ manipulation by
password protected software.
         (f)   EMCs may use multiple colors within the display, but the use of
color shall not create distraction or a hazard to the public health, safety, or
welfare.
      (5)   EMC text size and legibility. The following minimum text sizes
shall apply to all EMCs. If a sign is located on a corner with streets having
differing speed limits, the minimum text size shall be based on the standard
for higher speed limit to ensure legibility.
 
Minimum Text Sizes for EMC Signs
Speed Limit of Adjacent Road Minimum Text Size
25 to 34 MPH                 7"
35 to 44 MPH                 9"
45 to 54 MPH                 12"
55 MPH or more               15"
 
      (6)   Operation.
         (a)   All EMCs shall be equipped with a means to immediately
discontinue the display if it malfunctions.
         (b)   The owner of an EMC must immediately cease operation of their
sign when notified by the city that it fails to comply with the standards of
this chapter.
   (D)   Freestanding (includes monument, pylon, and post and arm sign types).
      (1)   The total area of one freestanding sign face shall not exceed one
square foot of surface area for every one foot of lineal street frontage, not
to exceed the maximum aggregate sign area per §
157.005 (C).
      (2)   One freestanding sign per street frontage.
      (3)   Height.
         (a)   Post and arm signs shall not exceed five feet above existing
grade.
         (b)   Monument signs shall not exceed eight feet above existing grade.
         (c)   Pylon signs shall not exceed 25 feet above existing grade.
         (d)   Electronic message center signs shall not exceed eight feet
above existing grade.
   (E)   Internal wayfinding sign.
      (1)   Appropriate number of signs to provide directional assistance given
size of site and circulation pattern as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Signs shall not exceed eight feet in height.
      (3)   Internal wayfinding signs may come in the form of monument, pylon,
or post and arm sign types.
      (4)   Signs shall be designed in a uniform manner (within individual
subdivision or center) using consistent background color and typeface colors.
   (F)   Marquee.
      (1)   Signs shall not exceed 75% of the size of the marquee.
      (2)   Placement.
         (a)   Marquee structure shall have a minimum eight feet vertical
clearance above sidewalk or pathway.
         (b)   May be placed on the front, above, or below the canopy.
   (G)   Projecting.
      (1)   One projecting sign per façade that is visible from a street,
alley, or customer parking lot.
      (2)   Projection.
         (a)   Projecting signs shall not exceed 30 square feet in area.
         (b)   Projection shall not extend more than eight feet beyond the face
of the building.
         (c)   Shall not be located directly over windows or in conflict with
other signs or architectural features of the building.
         (d)   Projecting signs shall maintain a minimum vertical clearance of
eight feet above sidewalk or pathway, and a minimum vertical clearance of 14
feet when within five feet of a roadway.
   (H)   Roof.
      (1)   One roof sign per building.
      (2)   Roof signs shall not exceed six feet above the ridge line or
parapet.
      (3)   The separation of the sign from the roofline to the bottom of the
sign shall not be greater than one foot.
   (I)   Wall.
      (1)   A minimum of 10 square feet up to a maximum of one-third of the
building face.
      (2)   One sign per tenant per façade visible from an adjacent street,
alley, or customer parking lot.
      (3)   Wall signs shall not stand more than 4 inches away from the wall.
      (4)   Wall signs shall maintain a minimum vertical clearance of 80 inches
above sidewalk grade.
   (J)   Window. Permanent window signs are limited to one-third of the total
surface area of the window to which they are affixed.
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022; Am. Ord. 825, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 157.007 MULTITENANT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Multitenant wall signs.
      (1)   Tenants may install up to one wall sign for each building façade
per leasehold area.
      (2)   Wall signs shall be limited to no more than 20% of the leasehold
wall area on which the sign is to be erected.
   (B)   All other signage related to multitenant buildings shall be allotted
to and not exceed the maximum square footage requirements per §
157.004(C).
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022; Am. Ord. 812, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 157.008 STANDARDS FOR NONPERMANENT SIGNS.
   (A)   Applicability. Nonpermanent signs are not intended for permanent
installation. Nonpermanent signs come in a variety of types, each of which are
regulated below. Where not specifically defined, nonpermanent signs shall be
regulated per subsection (B), below.
   (B)   General regulations.
      (1)   Location.
         (a)   No nonpermanent sign may be placed in the right-of-way.
Exception: bus bench and shelter signs, refer to subsections (C)(2) and (C)(3),
below.
         (b)   If attached to a building, sign shall be flat and shall not
project above the roof line.
      (2)   Limit. No more than four nonpermanent signs may be placed on a site
at any one time.
      (3)   Area. The maximum aggregate area of nonpermanent signs shall not
exceed the area standards per §
157.005 (C).
      (4)   Per M.S. § 211B.045, all noncommercial signs of any size may be
posted in any number beginning 46 days before the state primary in a state
general election year until ten days following the state general election. The
same time limitations shall apply to local elections. Placement of such signs
shall adhere to subsections (B)(1)(a) and (b) above.
      (5)   Maintenance. All nonpermanent signs must be maintained and shall be
removed if material shows signs of wear such as fraying, fading, chipping, or
other physical damage.
   (C)   Specific regulations by type of nonpermanent sign.
      (1)   A-frame (sandwich board).
         (a)   Signs must leave a minimum of six feet of clear walkway on the
sidewalk.
         (b)   One sign allowed per business, ten square feet per side, four
feet in height.
         (c)   Such signs shall not be left on the sidewalk overnight.
      (2)   Banner sign.
         (a)   Banner signs may extend across a public street only by
permission of the governing body and shall be subject to all related laws and
ordinances.
         (b)   One sign per property.
         (c)   Signs may be supported by posts or stakes which are attached to
the ground or securely attached to the face of a building.
      (3)   Bus bench or shelter sign.
         (a)   Signs may be installed on bus benches and/or shelters within
city right-of-way, pursuant to a franchise authorized by the City Council.
         (b)   One sign per bus bench or shelter.
      (4)   Feather sign.
         (a)   Sign shall be set back no less than ten feet from the curb or
street.
      (5)   Flag.
         (a)   Sign shall be set back no less than ten feet from the curb or
street.
         (b)   The maximum aggregate area of all flag signs shall not exceed 32
square feet.
         (c)   A flagpole shall not exceed a height of 25 feet.
      (6)   Freestanding. The sign shall be set back no less than ten feet from
the curb or street. If four square feet or smaller, nonpermanent freestanding
signs shall be set back no less than two feet from the curb or street.
      (7)   Window signs.
         (a)   Location. No limit on the location of the sign except as
otherwise specified in this Code.
         (b)   Limit. Window signs are limited to one-third of the total
surface area of the window to which they are affixed.
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022; Am. Ord. 812, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 157.009 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Prohibited sign types.
      (1)   Billboards.
      (2)   Flashing lights.
      (3)   Inflatable signs.
      (4)   Off-premises signs.
      (5)   Rotating signs.
      (6)   Signs that produce sound or include a noisemaking device or
instrument for any purpose other than regulatory.
      (7)   Signs on or attached to mobile equipment where the sign is a
principal use of the equipment on either a nonpermanent or permanent basis.
      (8)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content, coloring,
or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed as a traffic
control device, or which hide from view any traffic or street sign or signal or
which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road intersection.
   (B)   Prohibited signs are subject to removal by the city at the owner’s
expense.
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 157.010 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following are not regulated by this chapter.
      (1)   Building addresses.
      (2)   Historic plaques.
      (3)   Governmental signs for control of traffic and other regulatory or
notification purposes as governed under Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices (MUTCD) and Minnesota MUTCD.
      (4)   Murals.
      (5)   Notices required to be posted by law, including, but not limited to
warning signs, dangerous dog, hazardous building, building permit, etc.
      (6)   Seasonal decorations, including inflatable seasonal decorations.
      (7)   Sculptures.
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 157.011 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   A NONCONFORMING SIGN is any sign that was legally established and
maintained in compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws in effect
at the time of original installation but that does not now comply with the
provisions of this chapter. It is the intent of this chapter to recognize that
the eventual elimination of signs that do not comply with the provisions of
this chapter is as important as the prohibition of new signs that would violate
these standards.
   (B)   General requirements. A nonconforming sign may not be:
      (1)   Changed to another nonconforming sign.
      (2)   Expanded.
      (3)   Reestablished after a business discontinued for more than one year.
      (4)   Reestablished after damage or destruction of more than 50% of its
value, as determined by the Building Official, and no building permit has been
applied for within 180 days of when the damage occurred.
   (C)   Amortization. After the date of enactment of this chapter,
nonconforming signs located within any zoning district shall be brought into
compliance with this chapter if said sign is to be expanded.
   (D)   Maintenance and repair. Non-conforming signs and sign structures may
be maintained and repaired.
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 157.012 ABANDONED SIGNS.
   An ABANDONED SIGN is a sign that has been inactive for a period of at least
one year. An abandoned sign shall be removed by the owner or lessee of the
premises upon which the sign is located when the activity related to said sign
is no longer conducted on the premises. If the owner or lessee fails to remove
the sign, the Zoning Administrator shall give the owner 30 days written notice
to remove it. Upon failure to comply with the notice, the Zoning Administrator
may have the sign removed at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 157.013 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced and administered in
accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Code.
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 157.014 VARIANCES.
   The city may grant a variance to provide relief to a property owner when the
strict enforcement of the regulations for sign size, setbacks, height, and the
like imposes practical difficulty on the property owner’s ability to reasonably
display a message. Financial considerations are not justification for
variances. The procedure for reviewing a variance shall follow that process
outlined for zoning variances in §
154.004 (E).
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 157.015 SUBSTITUTION CLAUSE.
   Any sign allowed under this section may contain, in lieu of any other
message or copy, any lawful noncommercial message or copy.
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 157.016 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
section or its application to any person or situation should be held to be
invalid or unconstitutional for any reason by a court or competent
jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the
validity or constitutionality of the remaining portions of this section or its
application to any other person or situation.
(Ord. 806, passed 7-26-2022)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Minnesota Regulations
References to 1989 Code of Ordinances
References to 1999 Zoning Ordinance
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section                  Code Section
12.25                         51.01,
                              51.04
12.31                         51.06
Chapter 13                    60.03
Chapter 13D                   30.12,
                              32.02
                              110.07 ,
14.57—14.69                 112.10 ,
                              120.13
15.73, Subd. 3                94.32
15.99                         154.004
16B.65, Subd. 2 and 3         154.003
16D.04                        30.17
18.77                         98.37
18.79                         98.37
Chapter 18C                   96.17
18G.07                        98.02
28A.151, Subd. 1              154.003
Chapter 38                    122.02
53A.01, Subd. 1               154.003
69.033, Subd. 6               34.10
84.81—84.929                73.01
88.16—88.22                 98.70
89.001                        98.02
89.01                         98.02
89.51—89.64                 98.02
97B.021                       155.04
97B.045                       155.04
103B                          154.010
103D                          154.010
103D.011, Subd. 23 and 24     154.003
103F                          154.003,
                              154.008
103G                          154.010
103G.005, Subd. 15            153.021,
                              154.003
103G.005, Subd. 19            153.021,
                              154.003
103G.245                      154.008
115A.94                       55.06
116.07                        33.25
Chapter 116D                  150.085
144.391                       118.01
144.562                       154.003
144A.01 Subd. 5               154.003
144(D)                        154.003
144(G)                        154.003
Chapter 146A                  110.26
                              125.01 ,
Chapter 146B                  125.02 ,
                              154.010
Chapter 151                   97.01
Chapter 152                   97.01,
                              130.20
152.01                        130.20
152.01 et seq.                130.20
152.01, Subd. 4               130.14
152.01—152.027              155.04
152.02                        130.20
152.18                        130.20
157.16, Subd. 3d              117.015
161.242                       33.16
Chapter 168                   70.01
168.10                        33.16
Chapter 168B                  33.15
168B.09, Subd. 2              33.15
Chapter 169                   70.01
169.01                        33.16
169.041                       33.16,
                              33.18
169.69                        71.08
169.345                       72.08,
                              154.003
169.693                       71.08
Chapter 170                   70.01
Chapter 171                   70.01,
                              130.12
211B.045                      157.008
216B.02, Subd. 4              94.32
216B.02, Subd. 6              94.32
                              94.34,
216D                          94.44,
                              94.53
                              94.39,
216D.01-.09                   94.44,
                              94.53
216D.04, Subd. 3              94.32
237.16                        94.30
                              94.30,
237.162                       94.32,
                              94.46
237.162, Subd. 4              94.32
                              94.30,
237.163                       94.32,
                              94.46
237.163, Subd. 2(b)           94.30
237.163, Subd. 6              94.58
237.79                        94.30
237.81                        94.30
Chapter 238                   94.32
238.086                       94.30
245.462, Subd. 23             154.003
245A.01—245A.16             154.003
245G.21                       154.003
252.28                        154.003
260.185                       130.99
Chapter 278                   120.13
299F.011                      91.01,
                              91.03
300.06                        94.35
Chapter 308A                  94.32
325E.21, Subd. 1(b)        130.23
Chapter 325J                  124.01,
                              124.15
325J.03                       124.04
325J.04, Subd. 2              124.07
326.01                        150.054
326.83—326.991              110.29
326.241—326.248             150.054
Chapter 326B                  150.001
327                           154.003
Chapter 329                   119.03
Chapter 333                   120.08
340.8.101, Subd. 2            130.14
340.135                       117.050
                              117.010,
                              117.011,
                              117.018,
Chapter 340A                  117.100,
                              117.110,
                              117.122,
                              117.300
340A.22                       117.030
340A.22, Subd. 4              117.030
340A.24, Subd. 2              117.030
340A.26                       117.030
340A.28                       117.030
340A.101                      117.015
340A.301, Subd.6              117.060
340A.301, Subd. 6, clause (c) 117.030
340A.301, Subd. 6, clause (d) 117.030
340A.301, Subd. 6, clause (i) 117.030
340A.301, Subd. 6, clause (j) 117.030
340A.401                      100.02
340A.404, Subd. 12            117.170
340A.408(5)                   117.320
340A.409                      117.050
340A.409, Subd. 1(a)1         117.050
340A.409, Subd. 1(d)          117.050
340A.410, Subd. 3.            117.090
340A.412, Subd. 4             117.110
340A.412, Subd.14             117.015
340A.413, Subd. 3             117.018
340A.415                      117.600
340A.503                      155.04
340A.503, Subd. 1 and 3       100.02
340A.503, Subd. 2(1)          100.02
340A.509                      117.011
Chapter 342                   126.01, 1267.04
                              126.02,
342.01                        130.24,
                              154.003,
                              154.010
342.11                        126.04
342.13                        126.04
342.22                        126.04
342.22, Subd. 4(b)            126.04
342.22, Subd. 5               126.04
342.22, Subd. 5(e)            126.04
342.24                        126.04
344.02, Subd. 1(a)-(d)        154.003
347.31, Subd. 2               95.26
347.50 - 347.565              95.19
347.54                        95.19
Chapter 349                   112.01,
                              112.12
349.11—349.23               112.05
349.11 — 349.60             117.124
349.A01 — 349A.15           117.124
349.12                        112.03
349.166                       112.09
360.038                       92.10
360.075                       92.10
364.03, Subd. 3               120.06
364.06                        60.03,
                              60.04
364.09                        60.03,
                              60.04
412.221                       126.01
412.221, Subd. 23             100.01
412.621                       32.04
415.01, Subd. 2               91.41
415.11                        30.20
419.01—419.181              53.20
                              96.03,
Chapter 429                   100.05,
                              152.68
                              100.01,
429.021                       153.075,
                              153.110
                              98.01,
429.101                       98.02,
                              98.23,
                              98.43
435.193—435.195             100.05
444.075                       56.04
Chapter 453                   94.32
Chapter 453A                  94.32
461.12                        118.99
Chapter 462                   154.008
462                           154.008
462.354                       153.021,
                              154.003
462.354, Subd. 1              32.25
462.355, Subds. 2, 3          32.27
462.356, Subd. 2              32.27
462.357                       154.003,
                              154.004
462.357, Subd. 3              32.27
                              153.003,
462.358                       153.021,
                              153.090,
                              154.003
462.358, Subd. 2b(c)          153.092
462.359                       154.003
462.359, Subd. 2              32.27
462.359, Subd. 4              32.27
462.3593                      154.010
462.3593, Subd. 9             154.010
462.362                       154.012
463.15—463.26               98.01
469.090                       34.01
469.090—469.1081            34.01,
                              34.02
469.101, Subd. 2              34.11
471.88                        34.09
471.195                       33.01
505                           153.021,
                              154.003
505.00                        154.008
505.03                        153.073
514.67                        98.01
515.00                        154.008
518B.01                       120.12,
                              120.13
518B.2-101                    153.021
609.33                        155.04
609.66                        155.04
609.66, Subd. 1a              100.02
609.67                        100.02,
                              155.04
609.72                        100.02,
                              155.04
609.74                        100.02
609.74(1) or (2)              100.02
609.745                       100.02
609.75—609.763              112.05
609.79                        120.12,
                              120.13
609.293—609.352             120.12,
                              120.13
609.321                       155.04
609.321, Subd. 9              130.14
609.487                       130.21
609.535                       130.11
609.725                       130.02
609.746                       130.13
609.746—609.749             120.12,
                              120.13
609.747                       130.13
609.748                       130.13
609.755—609.76              155.04
617.241                       111.01,
                              111.02
617.251                       120.04
617.293                       120.04
617.295                       120.04
624.20—624.25               133.01
624.712—624.716             155.04
624.713                       100.02,
                              131.03
624.719                       155.04
624.731                       155.04
624.732                       155.04
624.7131                      131.07
                              
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Code Section
Minn. Rules         Code Section
Chapter 1305        154.003
Chapter 1510        98.70
1720.1400—1720.15595.26
Chapter 4410        153.030
4720.5100, Subp. 13 154.010
4720.5200—4720.529154.003
6120.3000           154.003
Chapter 7030        98.18,
                    154.008
7030.1000—7030.10571.08
Chapter 7035        33.15
Chapter 7080        56.51
                    94.39,
7560                94.44,
                    94.46
7560.0150           94.51
7819.1000, Subp. 3  94.37
7819.1100           94.32,
                    94.46
7819.1250           94.56
7819.1300           94.47
7819.3000           94.41
7819.3100           94.52
7819.3200           94.55
7819.4000           94.51
7819.4100           94.51
7819.5000           94.52
7819.5100           94.52
7819.9900           94.32
7819.9950           94.32
8410                154.010
8420                154.010
                    
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA REGULATIONS
 
Minn. Regs. Section Code Section
6120.2500—6120.390154.008
 
REFERENCES TO 1989 CODE OF ORDINANCES
1989 Code Section 2003 Code Section
1989 Code Section 2003 Code Section
4.010             30.01
4.020             30.02
4.030             30.03
4.040             30.04
4.050             30.05
4.060             30.06
4.070             30.07
4.080             30.08
4.090             30.09
4.100             30.10
4.110             30.11
4.120             30.12
4.130             30.13
4.140             30.14
4.150             30.15
4.160             30.16
4.170             30.17
4.180             30.18
5.010             31.01
5.030             31.02
5.040             31.03
5.050             31.04
5.060             31.05
5.070             31.06
5.080             31.07
5.090             31.08
5.100             31.09
6.010             52.01
6.040             52.02
6.050             52.03
8.010             53.01
8.020             53.02
8.030             53.03
8.040             53.04
8.050             53.05
8.070             53.06
8.080             53.07
9.010             53.20
9.020             53.21
9.030             53.22
11.070            33.02
13.010            31.25
13.020            31.26
13.030            31.27
13.040            31.28
13.050            31.29
13.051            31.30
15.010            56.04
15.020            56.04
15.030            56.04
20.010            150.001
20.030            150.003
20.040            150.004
20.060            150.005
20.070            150.005
20.080            150.007
20.090            150.008
20.100            150.009
20.110            150.010
20.120            150.011
20.130            150.012
20.140            150.013
21.010            151.01
21.020            151.02
21.030            151.03
21.040            151.04
21.050            151.05
21.060            151.06
21.070            151.07
21.080            151.08
21.090            151.09
22.010            150.025
22.020            150.026
22.030            150.027
22.040            150.028
22.050            150.029
22.060            150.030
22.070            150.031
22.080            150.032
22.090            150.033
22.100            150.034
22.110            150.035
22.120            150.036
23.010            150.050
23.020            150.051
23.030            150.052
23.040            150.053
23.050            150.056
23.060            150.054
23.070            150.055
24.010            150.070
24.020            150.071
24.030            150.072
24.040            150.073
24.050            150.074
24.060            150.075
25.010            150.100
25.020            150.101
25.030            150.102
25.040            150.103
25.050            150.104
26.010            91.01
26.020            91.02
26.030            91.03
26.040            91.05
26.050            91.06
26.060            91.07
26.070            91.08
26.080            91.12
26.090            91.09
26.100            91.10
26.110            91.11
27.010            152.01
27.020            152.02
27.030            152.03,
                  152.04
27.040            152.05
27.050            152.15
27.060            152.16
27.070            152.17
27.080            152.17
27.090            152.17
27.100            152.18
27.110            152.19
27.120            152.20
27.130            152.20
27.140            152.20
27.150            152.21
27.160            152.35
27.170            152.22
27.180            152.36
27.190            152.23
27.200            152.24
27.210            152.37
27.220            152.38
27.230            152.39
27.240            152.40
27.250            152.41
27.260            152.42
27.270            152.43
27.280            152.44
27.290            152.45
27.300            152.60
27.310            152.61
27.320            152.62
27.330            152.63
27.340            152.64
27.350            152.65
27.360            152.66
27.370            152.67
27.380            152.68
27.390            152.69
28.010            150.085
28.020            150.086
28.030            150.087
28.040            150.088
28.050            150.089
85.010            110.01
85.030            110.03
85.040            110.04
85.050            110.05
85.060            110.06
85.070            110.07
85.080            110.08
85.090            110.09
85.100            110.11
85.110            110.10
87.010            114.01
87.020            114.02
87.030            114.03
88.010            111.01
88.020            111.01
88.030            111.01
88.040            111.01
91.010            111.02
91.020            111.02
91.030            111.02
91.040            111.02
91.050            111.02
91.060            111.02
91.070            111.02
94.010            111.03
94.020            111.03
95.010            116.01
95.020            116.02
95.030            116.03
95.040            116.04
95.050            116.05
95.060            116.06
95.070            116.07
95.080            116.08
95.090            116.09
100.010           110.27
100.020           110.27
100.030           110.27
100.040           110.27
100.050           110.27
101.010           110.28
101.020           110.28
101.030           110.28
101.040           110.28
101.050           110.28
120.010           70.01
120.020           71.01
120.030           71.02
120.040           71.03
120.050           71.04
120.060           71.05
120.070           71.06
120.080           71.07
120.090           71.08
120.091           71.09
120.100           71.10
121.010           72.01
121.020           72.02
121.030           72.03
121.040           72.04
121.050           72.05
121.060           72.06
121.070           72.07
121.080           Chapter 74, Schedule I
121.090           72.08
121.100           72.10
122.010           71.25
122.020           71.2
122.030           71.27
122.040           71.28
122.050           71.29
123.010           115.01
123.020           115.02
123.030           115.03
123.040           115.04
123.050           115.05
123.060           115.06
123.070           115.07
123.080           115.08
123.090           115.09
123.100           115.10
123.110           115.11
123.120           115.12
123.130           115.13
123.140           115.14
123.150           115.15
124.010           73.01
124.020           73.02
131.020           91.26
131.030           91.27
131.040           91.28
133.010           97.01
133.020           97.02
133.030           97.03
133.040           97.04
133.050           97.05
133.060           97.06
133.070           97.07
133.080           97.08
133.090           97.09
137.010           90.01
137.050           91.29
137.060           91.30
139.010           96.01
139.020           96.01
139.030           96.02
139.040           96.03
139.050           96.04
140.010           96.15
140.020           96.16
140.030           96.17
140.040           96.18
150.050           94.01
150.060           94.02
150.070           94.03
151.010           94.20
151.020           94.21
151.030           94.22
152.010           93.01
152.020           93.02
152.030           93.03
152.040           93.04
152.050           93.05
152.060           93.06
153.010           92.01
153.020           92.02
153.030           92.03
153.040           92.04
153.050           92.05
153.060           92.06
153.070           92.07
153.080           92.08
153.100           92.09
153.110           92.10
153.120           92.11
153.130           92.12
160.010           56.03
160.020           56.05
160.030           56.06
160.040           56.02
160.050           56.15
160.060           56.16
160.070           56.17
160.080           56.18
160.090           56.30
160.100           56.31
160.120           56.32
160.130           56.35
160.140           56.36
160.150           56.37,
                  56.40
160.160           56.39
161.020           57.01,
                  57.02
161.030           57.03
161.040           57.04
161.050           57.05
161.060           57.20
161.070           57.21
161.080           57.22
161.090           57.23
161.100           57.24
161.110           57.25
161.120           57.26
161.130           57.27
161.140           57.28
161.150           57.29
161.160           57.30
161.170           57.31
161.180           57.32
161.190           57.33
161.200           57.34
161.210           57.35
161.220           57.36
161.230           57.37
162.010           56.50
162.020           56.01
162.030           56.51
162.040           56.52
162.050           56.53
163.010           57.50
163.020           57.51
163.030           57.5
171.010(part)     131.01
171.010(1)        131.02
171.010(2)        131.03
171.010(3)        131.04
171.010(4)        131.05
171.010(5)        131.06
171.010(6)        131.07
171.010(7)        131.08
171.010(8)        131.09
171.010(9)        131.10
171.010(10)       131.11
171.010(11)       131.12
171.010(12)       131.13
171.010(13)       131.14
171.050           130.01
171.060           130.02
171.070           130.03
171.080           130.04
171.090           130.05
171.100           130.06
171.110           130.07
171.120           130.08
171.130           130.09
171.140           130.10
171.150           130.11
171.160           130.12
171.170           130.13
171.180           130.14
172.020           130.16
173.010           95.01
173.020           95.15
173.050           95.40
173.060           95.41
173.070           95.16
173.080           95.42
173.090           95.26
173.100           95.43
173.110           95.17
173.120           95.20
173.130           95.21
173.140           95.22
173.190           95.24
173.200           95.44
173.210           95.45
173.220           95.25
173.230           95.02
174.010           132.01
174.020           132.02
174.030           132.03
174.040           132.04
174.050           132.05
174.060           132.06
                  
 
REFERENCES TO 1999 ZONING ORDINANCE
1999 Code Section 2003 Code Section
1999 Code Section                       2003 Code Section
50, 51.010, 52.010 - 52.020, 53.020, 56 154.001 - 154.007
54.010 - 55.010                         154.370 - 154.998
57.010 - 57.080                         154.305 - 154.312
58.010 - 58.140                         154.325 - 154.338
59.010 - 60.010                         154.350 - 154.356
62.010 - 62.110                         154.225 - 154.266
63.010                                  154.280
64.010 - 64.100                         154.290 - 154.299
64.050                                  Appendix A, Appendix B
67.010 - 67.030                         154.020 - 154.022
68.010 - 68.060                         154.035 - 154.040
69.010 - 69.060                         154.055 - 154.060
70.010 - 70.060                         154.075 - 154.080
71.010 - 71.060                         154.095 - 154.100
72.010 - 72.060                         154.115 - 154.120
73.010 - 73.060                         154.135 - 154.140
74.010 - 74.090                         154.155 - 154.163
75.010 - 75.070                         154.175 - 154.181
76.010 - 76.140                         154.195 - 154.208
77.010 - 77.240                         154.220 - 154.244
                                        
Editor’s note:
   2003 Zoning Code (Ch. 154) replaced by Ord. 739, passed 8-18-2015.
   2003 Subdivision Code (Ch. 153) replaced by Ord. 847, passed 9-16-2025.
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
607      2-6-1995    91.29
633      10-17-2000  30.20
634      7-16-2002   150.005
                     133.01—
637      6-4-2003    133.05,
                     133.99
640      8-19-2003   110.30
641      8-19-2003   99.01—
                     99.05
644      8-19-2003   91.01—
                     91.04
646      8-19-2003   121.01—
                     121.07
647      8-19-2003   10.20
652      2-1-2005    73.02 -
                     73.04 
653      5-17-2005   98.20
                     56.01 -
                     56.04,
                     56.30,
                     56.32 -
657      12-20-2005  56.34,
                     56.36 -
                     56.38,
                     56.40,
                     56.52,
                     56.53
660      9-5-2006    100.01—
                     100.05
661      9-5-2006    98.20—
                     98.23
664      10-2-2007   150.001
668      5-6-2008    122.01—
                     122.11
669      5-6-2008    123.01—
                     123.09
672      9-2-2008    98.18,
                     152.46
679      7-7-2009    124.01—
                     124.16
                     60.01—
680      6-9-2009    60.04,
                     110.01
681      6-9-2009    150.001
683      10-20-2009  34.01—
                     34.12
684      10-6-2009   57.33
686      11-17-2009  112.03,
                     112.99
690      4-6-2010    100.01—
                     100.05
694      7-20-2010   91.40—
                     91.44
                     94.02,
695      7-20-2010   98.37,
                     98.38,
                     98.44
702      12-21-2010  134.01—
                     134.10
                     117.010,
                     117.011,
                     117.015,
                     117.018,
                     117.020,
                     117.030,
                     117.040,
                     117.050,
                     117.060,
                     117.070,
                     117.080,
                     117.085,
                     117.090,
                     117.100,
                     117.110,
                     117.120,
                     117.122,
                     117.124,
707      6-21-2011   117.126,
                     117.130,
                     117.140,
                     117.145,
                     117.150,
                     117.155,
                     117.160,
                     117.170,
                     117.300,
                     117.310,
                     117.320,
                     117.330,
                     117.400,
                     117.410,
                     117.420,
                     117.430,
                     117.440,
                     117.450,
                     117.600
                     117.010,
                     117.011,
                     117.015,
                     117.018,
                     117.020,
                     117.030,
                     117.040,
                     117.050,
                     117.060,
                     117.070,
                     117.080,
                     117.085,
                     117.090,
                     117.100,
                     117.110,
                     117.120,
                     117.122,
                     117.124,
710      11-15-2011  117.126,
                     117.130,
                     117.140,
                     117.145,
                     117.150,
                     117.155,
                     117.160,
                     117.170,
                     117.300,
                     117.310,
                     117.320,
                     117.330,
                     117.400,
                     117.410,
                     117.420,
                     117.430,
                     117.440,
                     117.450,
                     117.600
                     95.01,
                     95.15,
712      11-15-2011  95.23 -
                     95.26,
                     95.41
718      10-2-2012   98.02
                     118.01—
                     118.03,
                     118.05,
720      1-3-2013    118.06,
                     118.08—
                     118.11,
                     118.99
721      3-19-2013   156.01,
                     156.02
723      5-21-2013   111.02
728      12-17-2013  30.04
735      4-21-2015   56.01,
                     56.54
                     32.01—
                     32.16,
                     32.25—
                     32.27,
737      6-16-2015   32.45—
                     32.47,
                     32.55—
                     32.57,
                     32.65—
                     32.67
                     55.01—
738      8-18-2015   55.09,
                     55.20—
                     55.24
                     154.001—
739      8-18-2015   154.010,
                     154.012
745      12-15-2015  154.008
                     155.01—
746      12-15-2015  155.05,
                     155.99
747      1-19-2016   118.02,
                     118.03
                     154.006,
748      1-19-2016   154.007,
                     154.010
                     92.04,
                     117.015,
                     117.018,
                     117.020,
                     117.030,
749      1-19-2016   117.120,
                     117.130,
                     117.140,
                     117.155,
                     117.160,
                     117.600
750      3-15-2016   154.003
751      6-7-2016    117.050
752      6-7-2016    91.25
                     154.003,
753      7-19-2016   154.007,
                     154.010,
                     Ch. 154 App. Table 3
754      9-6-2016    94.30—
                     94.60
755      10-18-2016  154.010
756      10-18-2016  55.04
759      12-20-2016  154.010
760      12-20-2016  154.003,
                     154.010
761      2-21-2017   31.10,
                     31.11
765      2-21-2017   95.25
762      6-6-2017    117.155,
                     117.160
764      10-3-2017   154.010
769      7-17-2018   95.19
770      8-21-2018   154.010
772      9-18-2018   150.072
779      2-19-2019   154.003
780      4-2-2019    94.30—
                     94.60
                     124.04,
782      4-16-2019   124.05,
                     124.08,
                     124.17
                     154.003,
783      4-16-2019   154.010,
                     Ch. 154 App. Table 8
785      6-18-2019   110.26 ,
                     113.02
                     95.01 ,
                     95.02 ,
                     95.16 ,
788      12-17-2019  95.18 ,
                     95.25 ,
                     95.40 ,
                     95.41
789      5-5-2020    117.160
791      5-19-2020   95.01 ,
                     95.23
792      6-2-2020    Ch. 154 App. A
795      2-2-2021    30.20
798      5-18-2021   32.75—
                     32.78
                     72.04,
                     154.003,
                     154.008,
799      7-20-2021   154.010,
                     Ch. 154, App. Tables 3—
                     5,
                     7,
                     8
                     112.01—
801      10-5-2021   112.12,
                     112.99
802      10-19-2021  30.20
805      6-7-2022    117.120
                     154.001,
                     154.003,
                     154.010,
806      7-26-2022   Ch. 154 App. A,
                     App. B,
                     157.001—
                     157.016
807      10-4-2022   154.008
                     32.27,
808      10-4-2022   32.57,
                     32.67
809      10-18-2022  32.77
810      11-1-2022   130.23
                     157.002,
812      1-17-2023   157.004,
                     157.007,
                     157.008
813      2-7-2023    32.56
814      2-7-2023    94.22
                     125.01—
818      8-15-2023   125.03,
                     154.010
819      6-20-2023   72.01
820      8-15-2023   72.07
821      8-15-2023   130.24
                     118.01—
                     118.03,
                     118.05,
823      11-21-2023  118.06,
                     118.08—
                     118.11,
                     118.99
825      12-19-2023  157.006
826      12-19-2023  Ch. 154, App. A
828      7-16-2024   95.26
829      7-16-2024   94.04
830      7-16-2024   154.010
833      8-20-2024   154.003,
                     154.010
834      12-3-2024   154.010
                     154.003,
835      12-17-2024  154.010,
                     Ch. 154 App. A
836      12-17-2024  126.01—
                     126.06
837      2-4-2025    117.110
838      2-4-2025    127.01—
                     127.09
839      4-15-2025   117.025,
                     117.050
840      4-15-2025   112.04
841      6-3-2025    112.08
                     117.040,
842      6-3-2025    117.070,
                     118.03
843      8-19-2025   112.08,
                     112.09
845      7-15-2025   110.27,
                     110.28
846      8-19-2025   154.003,
                     154.010
                     153.001—
                     153.006,
                     153.020,
                     153.021,
                     153.030—
                     153.039,
                     153.050—
                     153.054,
847      9-16-2025   153.070—
                     153.079,
                     153.090—
                     153.093,
                     153.110,
                     153.111,
                     153.120—
                     153.122,
                     153.999
848      9-16-2025   154.003, 154.090,
                     154.010
                    
 
 
 
