OWATONNA, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1666, passed 12-3-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
OF
OWATONNA, MINNESOTA
ELECTED OFFICIALS
ELECTED OFFICIALS
Mayor                Matthew T. Jessop
City Council Members  
Member At Large      Doug Voss
Member At Large      Dan Boeke
Member - First Ward  Nathan Dotson
Member - Second Ward Don McCann
Member - Third Ward  David C. Burbank
Member - Fourth Ward Kevin P. Raney
Member - Fifth Ward  Brent L. Svenby
 
CITY OFFICERS
CITY OFFICERS
City Administrator                  Kris M. Busse
Assistant City Administrator        Jenna Tuma
City Attorney                       Mark M. Walbran
City Building Official              Ken Beck
City Community Development Director Troy Klecker
City Finance Director               Emily Burns
City Fire Chief                     Ed Hoffman
City Human Resource Director        Emily Thamert
City IT Director                    Ryan Brown
City Library Director               Mark Blando
Parks & Rec Director                TW Dieckmann
City Police Chief                   Jeff Mundale
City Public Works Director          Sean Murphy
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1520
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF OWATONNA, MINNESOTA,
AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to cause
its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book,
NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Owatonna, Minnesota, ordains:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified, and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are adopted and shall constitute the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Owatonna. This Code of Ordinances also
adopts, by reference, certain statutes and administrative rules of the State of
Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to subjects treated in the Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part in
the Code of Ordinances; provided this repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred, or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes; appropriating money; annexing or detaching territory;
establishing franchises; granting special rights to certain persons;
authorizing public improvements; authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money; authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property;
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use; or
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances.
All fees established in prior ordinances shall remain in effect unless amended
in this Code of Ordinances, or until an ordinance adopting a fee schedule is
adopted or amended.
Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a sufficient
publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously published in the
city's official newspaper. The City Clerk shall cause a substantial quantity of
the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general distribution to the public at
actual cost, and shall furnish a copy of the Code of Ordinances to the County
Law Library or its designated depository and shall cause a copy to be posted on
the City of Owatonna website at www.ci.owatonna.mn.us. The official copy of
this Code of Ordinances shall be marked and be kept in the Office of the City
Clerk.
Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of the
law of the city and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the courts of the State of Minnesota.
Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
city's official newspaper.
Section 7. Effective date. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect
from and after its passage and publication.
Passed and adopted this  7th  day of  April , 2015, with the following vote:
      Aye:   Raney, Dotson, Okerberg, Schultz, Burbank and Abraham
      No:   None
      Absent:   Svenby
Approved and signed this  7th  day of  April , 2015.
                                                                                                           
                                             Thomas A. Kuntz, Mayor
ATTEST:
                                                                 
Kris M. Busse, City Administrator/City Clerk
Proposed Ordinance 20-4
ORDINANCE NO. 1605
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF OWATONNA
WHEREAS American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-4 Supplement to the 2015 Code of Ordinances of the City of
Owatonna, which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the S-3 Supplement to the 2015 Code of Ordinances of the City of
Owatonna.
NOW THEREFORE by the City Council of the City of Owatonna, Minnesota, be it
ordained:
Section 1.   That the S-4 Supplement to the 2015 Code of Ordinances of the City
of Owatonna as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the City Clerk of the City of
Owatonna is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the 2015 Code of Ordinances kept on file in the City Administration
Office.
Passed and adopted this 21st day of April , 2020, with the following vote:
      Aye: 7  No: 0  Absent: 0
Approved and signed this  21st  day of  April , 2020.
                      Thomas A. Kuntz /s/    
                     Thomas A. Kuntz, Mayor
ATTEST:
  Kris M. Busse /s/
Kris M. Busse, City Administrator/City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 1615
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF OWATONNA
WHEREAS American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-5 Supplement to the 2015 Code of Ordinances of the City of
Owatonna, which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the S-4 Supplement to the 2015 Code of Ordinances of the City of
Owatonna.
NOW THEREFORE by the City Council of the City of Owatonna, Minnesota, be it
ordained:
Section 1.   That the S-5 Supplement to the 2015 Code of Ordinances of the City
of Owatonna as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the City Clerk of the City of
Owatonna is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the 2015 Code of Ordinances kept on file in the City Administration
Office.
Passed and adopted this 20th day of April , 2021, with the following vote:
      Aye: 7  No: 0  Absent: 7
Approved and signed this  20th  day of  April , 2021.
                         Thomas A. Kuntz /s/    
                        Thomas A. Kuntz, Mayor
ATTEST:
Kris M. Busse /s/
Kris M. Busse, City Administrator/City Clerk
 
ORDINANCE NO. 1633
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF OWATONNA
WHEREAS American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-6 Supplement to the 2015 Code of Ordinances of the City of
Owatonna, which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the S-5 Supplement to the 2015 Code of Ordinances of the City of
Owatonna.
NOW THEREFORE by the City Council of the City of Owatonna, Minnesota, be it
ordained:
Section 1.   That the S-6 Supplement to the 2015 Code of Ordinances of the City
of Owatonna as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the City Clerk of the City of
Owatonna is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the 2015 Code of Ordinances kept on file in the City Administration
Office.
Passed and adopted this 3rd day of May , 2022, with the following vote:
      Aye: Burbank, Boeke, Raney, Svenby, Voss, Dotson, & Schultz
      No: None
      Absent: None
Approved and signed this  3rd  day of  May , 2022.
                         Thomas A. Kuntz /s/
                        Thomas A. Kuntz, Mayor
ATTEST:
  Kris M. Busse /s/
Kris M. Busse, City Administrator/City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 1658
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF OWATONNA
WHEREAS American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-7 Supplement to the 2015 Code of Ordinances of the City of
Owatonna, which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the S-6 Supplement to the 2015 Code of Ordinances of the City of
Owatonna.
NOW THEREFORE by the City Council of the City of Owatonna, Minnesota, be it
ordained:
Section 1.   That the S-7 Supplement to the 2015 Code of Ordinances of the City
of Owatonna as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, containing local legislation current through Ordinance 1644
passed March 21, 2023, is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
Section 2.    Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the City Clerk of the City of
Owatonna is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the 2015 Code of Ordinances kept on file in the City Administration
Office.
 
Passed and adopted this 3rd day of October, 2023, with the following roll call
vote:
 
    Aye – Voss, Dotson, Burbank, Boeke, Raney, Svenby and Schultz
    No – None
    Absent - None.    
 
Approved and signed this 3rd day of October, 2023.
 
                         Thomas A. Kuntz /s/
                        Thomas A. Kuntz, Mayor
ATTEST:
Greg Schultz /s/
Greg Schultz, City Council President
CITY CHARTER
Chapter I: Boundaries, Wards and Powers
   
1.1   Name and boundaries
   
1.2   Wards
   
1.3   Change in ward boundaries
   
1.4   Powers of city
Chapter II: Officers
   
2.1   Elective officers
   
2.2   Appointive officers
   
2.3   Qualifying
   
2.4   Term of office
   
2.5   Suspension
   
2.6   Removal
   
2.7   Removal from city or ward
   
2.8   Filling vacancies
   
2.9   Mayor
   
2.10   Acting Mayor
   
2.11   City Clerk-Treasurer
   
2.13   City Attorney
   
2.14   City Engineer
   
2.15   City Administrator
   
2.16   Mayor as head of Police Department
   
2.17   Salaries
Chapter III: Elections
   
3.1   Conduct of elections
   
3.2   Regular city elections
   
3.3   Special elections
   
3.4   Filing fees
Chapter IV: City Council
   
4.1   Council and quorum
   
4.2   Powers
   
4.3   Meetings
   
4.4   Rules
   
4.5   Records
   
4.6   Ordinances and resolutions
   
4.65   Emergency ordinances
   
4.7   Official newspaper-publication-ordinance code
   
4.8   Acquiring and selling property
   
4.9   Contracts
   
4.10   Plats
   
4.11   Franchises
Chapter V: Taxes and Finance
   
5.1   Fiscal year
   
5.2   Property tax
   
5.3   Board of Equalization
   
5.4   Taxing powers
   
5.5   Budget estimates
   
5.6   Preparation of budget
   
5.7   Budget approval
   
5.8   Tax levy
   
5.9   Funds
   
5.10   Payments from treasury
   
5.11   Annual reports
   
5.12   Borrowing
   
5.13   Certificates of indebtedness
   
5.14   Temporary borrowing
   
5.15   Adjustment of accounts
Chapter VI: Public Improvements
   
6.1   Supervision of streets
   
6.2   Vacating of streets
   
6.3   Grade of streets
   
6.4   Sidewalks
   
6.5   Cleaning streets
   
6.6   Authority to make improvements
   
6.7   Ordering improvement
   
6.8   Contracts
   
6.9   Assessments authorized
   
6.10   Initial proceedings
   
6.11   Ordering work
   
6.12   Levying assessment
   
6.13   Corner lot assessment
   
6.14   Sidewalk assessment
   
6.15   Reassessment
   
6.16   Installment of assessments
   
6.17   Collection of assessments
   
6.18   Validity of assessments
   
6.19   Former assessments
   
6.20   Assessment liens
   
6.21   Appeal from assessment
Chapter VII: Condemnation
Chapter VIII: Boards
   
8.1   Power to establish boards
   
8.2   Board members and officers
   
8.3   Powers of boards
   
8.4   Eligibility
Chapter IX: Public Utilities Commission
   
9.1   Commission-powers
   
9.2   Commission-appointment
   
9.3   Commission-removal
   
9.4   Commission-compensation
   
9.5   Officers
   
9.6   Power to invest and borrow
   
9.7   Powers in respect to land
   
9.8   Employees
   
9.9   Surveys, inspections, liens, and suits
   
9.10   Books of accounts
   
9.12   Rules and regulations
   
9.13   Rates and charges
   
9.14   Purchases
   
9.15   Annual statement
   
9.16   Utilities furnished city
Chapter X: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
10.1   Validity of ordinances
   
10.2   Continuance in office
   
10.3   Effective date
CHAPTER I
Boundaries, Wards and Powers
   Section 1.1   NAME AND BOUNDARIES. The City of Owatonna shall continue to be
a municipal corporation under the name and style of City of Owatonna with the
boundaries as from time to time established.
   Section 1.2   WARDS. The City is divided into five wards.
   Section 1.3   CHANGE IN WARD BOUNDARIES. The city council shall establish
and may change ward boundaries at any time by ordinance adopted by five-
sevenths vote.
   Section 1.4   POWERS OF CITY. The City may sue and be sued; shall have and
use its present seal and may alter its seal at any time; shall be capable of
contracting and being contracted with; may acquire by purchase, condemnation or
otherwise, and hold, lease, sell, and convey real and personal property as its
purposes may require or the transaction of its business may render convenient,
within or without the limits of the City; may acquire, construct, own, lease,
and operate public utilities and render public service of every kind; may
license and regulate persons, corporations, and associations engaged in any
business, occupation, trade, or profession; may define, prohibit, abate, or
suppress all things detrimental to the health, morals, comfort, safety,
convenience, and welfare of the inhabitants of the City and all nuisances and
causes thereof; may regulate and control the use of the streets and other
public places and ways; may make and enforce local police, sanitary and other
regulations and may do and perform all other things necessary or convenient for
maintaining and promoting the peace, good government, and welfare of the City
and for the performance of all functions thereof. The City shall have all the
powers possessed by municipal corporations at common law. It shall have,
retain, and may exercise all powers, functions, rights, and privileges
heretofore possessed by it or granted by the Laws of the State of Minnesota to
cities of the class of which the City may at any time belong and any other
powers, functions, rights, and privileges exercised by or which are incidental
to or inherent in municipal corporations or which are not denied to it by the
Constitution and Laws of the State of Minnesota or the provisions hereof. Its
powers shall extend beyond its corporate limits as may be necessary for the
effective exercise of any powers granted herein or as may be authorized by law.
The City shall have full power to deal with all matters of municipal concern
and have complete self-government in harmony with and subject to the
Constitution and Laws of the State of Minnesota.
CHAPTER II
Officers
   Section 2.1   ELECTIVE OFFICERS. The elective officers shall be a mayor, one
council member from each ward, and two council members-at-large. The terms of
all elective officers shall continue until their successors are elected and
qualify.
(Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 2.2   APPOINTIVE OFFICERS. The city council shall appoint a city
administrator, a city attorney, a city clerk-treasurer, a city engineer, and
such other officers as shall be necessary for the proper conduct of the affairs
of the City.
(Ord. 658, passed 5-3-1977; and by city election - 3-13-1990)
   Section 2.3   QUALIFYING. Every person elected or appointed to any office
shall take and subscribe the oath provided by law. The city clerk-treasurer,
chief of police, fire chief, city engineer, and such other officers as are
designated by the city council shall, before entering upon their respective
duties, furnish bond to the City in such manner, form, and amount as the city
council may direct. If so determined by the city council, the bond may be in
the form of a blanket bond, and the premium may be paid by the City.
   Section 2.4   TERM OF OFFICE. The term of all elective officers shall
commence on the first Monday in January next succeeding their election. The
term of all appointive officers shall commence on the first day of April of the
year following each biennial City election, and shall be for two (2) years, and
until their successors are appointed and qualified. The term of all of the
aforesaid officers of said City, elected by the people, shall be for four (4)
years, and until their successors shall be elected and qualified.
(As amended, city election - 3-13-1990)
   Section 2.5   SUSPENSION. The city administrator may suspend any appointive
officer for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days. Forthwith, the city
administrator shall report the action with the reasons therefor to the city
council by written communication filed with the city clerk and shall call a
meeting of the city council and shall devolve the duties of the suspended
officer upon some person who shall receive the same compensation as that of the
officer suspended. During the period of suspension the suspended officer shall
be entitled to no compensation unless the city council shall decide the
suspension was not warranted.
(Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 2.6   REMOVAL. Every officer and every member of any board or
commission, whether appointed to office by the city council or by the mayor or
elected by the people, may be removed from said office by vote of five-sevenths
of the city council, provided that an official elected by the people shall not
be removed except for cause after having been furnished with a written
statement of the charges and given a reasonable opportunity to be heard in
defense. The city council shall fix a time for hearing on such charges not less
than ten (10) days after notice to the accused officer and shall have power to
compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of books and papers. In
the event the officer neglects to appear and answer the charges, or the city
council finds that the charges are sustained and furnish sufficient cause for
removal, it shall by five-sevenths vote declare the office vacant.
(Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 2.7   REMOVAL FROM CITY OR WARD. Any elected officer who removes
from the City or any ward council member who removes from the ward from which
elected, or any elected officer who neglects or refuses to qualify within ten
(10) days after an election or appointment to elective office, shall be deemed
to have vacated the office. The city council shall by resolution declare the
office vacant.
(Ord. 658, passed 5-3-1977; Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 2.8   FILLING VACANCIES. If a vacancy exists in any elective office,
the city council by vote of a majority of the members remaining in office shall
fill the vacancy until the next regular city election when a successor shall be
elected for the remainder of the unexpired term. In the event of a tie vote in
the city council on the filling of a council vacancy, the mayor shall cast the
deciding vote.
(As amended, city election - 3-14-1978)
   Section 2.9   MAYOR. The mayor shall be the titular head of the City; the
mayor shall have the veto power including item veto of the budget; the mayor
shall meet with the city council and give to the city council such information
and recommend such measures as the mayor may deem advantageous to the City.
(Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 2.10   ACTING MAYOR. In event of vacancy in the office of mayor or
absence of the mayor from the City or in the mayor’s inability from sickness or
other cause to perform the duties of office, the president of the council, or,
if the president is also absent or incapacitated from acting, such other member
of the city council as it may designate shall exercise the powers and perform
the duties of the mayor during such absence or disability. While so acting,
that member shall be styled the “acting mayor” and his/her acts in that
capacity shall have the same force and effect as if performed by the mayor.
(Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 2.11   CITY CLERK-TREASURER. The city clerk-treasurer: Shall keep
custody of the corporate seal and of all books and records of the City; shall
attend meetings of the city council and keep a correct record of all
proceedings, ordinances, and resolutions in suitable books to be kept for that
purpose; may administer oaths and acknowledgments in all cases as required or
sanctioned by law; shall keep an office open at hours fixed by the city council
and at the place designated by the city council; all records and files therein
shall be open to public inspection, shall sign and file all contracts and
perform all things incident thereto as directed; shall draw and sign orders
upon the city treasury for money authorized to be paid out by the City, but,
except as in this charter otherwise authorized, shall not sign any order unless
there is a sufficient amount credited to the fund upon which the same is drawn
to pay the same; and shall keep a list of outstanding bonds showing the
purpose, when and where payable, the rate of interest, and the date of payment,
including a specimen bond of each issue.
   In addition, the city clerk-treasurer: Shall be the custodian of all monies
and securities belonging to the City; shall be responsible for the safekeeping
thereof and shall keep an accurate and detailed account thereof in such form as
the city council shall direct; shall, on the first business day of each month,
make and file a detailed statement of receipts and disbursements of the City
during the preceding month specifying the funds and the amount in each fund;
shall make an annual report and such other reports and perform such other
duties as required by the city council. Whenever in the charter, or in any
ordinance of the City of Owatonna in force as of the effective date of this
amendment, either of the designations “city clerk” or “city treasurer” appear,
such designations shall henceforth be construed to mean “city clerk-treasurer”.
Furthermore, whenever in the charter either of the designations “clerk” or
“treasurer” appear as abbreviated designations of, respectively, the offices of
“city clerk” or “city treasurer”, such abbreviated designations shall
henceforth be construed to mean “city clerk-treasurer”. The qualifications for
this position shall be established by the city council.
(Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 2.13   CITY ATTORNEY. The city attorney shall: Be a person admitted
to practice in all courts of this state; shall be the legal advisor of all
officers and boards of the City; shall prosecute or defend all suits, actions,
or proceedings, either civil or criminal, to which the City is a party; shall
furnish written opinions upon all subjects (submitted by the city council, or
by any of its committees, or by the mayor or by any board of the City); shall
attend city council meetings when so requested, draw all contracts affecting
the City, and such other legal instruments and papers as may be required in
connection with City affairs and perform such other services as pertain to the
office.
(Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 2.14   CITY ENGINEER. The city engineer shall be a registered
professional civil engineer; shall possess the same powers in making surveys
and plats within the limits of the City and certifying to the same as are
vested in county surveyors and the same force and validity shall be ascribed to
the surveys and plats as to the plats of the county surveyor. Under the
direction of the city administrator, the engineer shall superintend all work
done by or for the City in which engineering skill is required; shall draw
plans and specifications for all work and estimate the expense; when work is
done by contract, the engineer shall issue certificates required by law showing
the amount and value of the work performed and the proper performance and
completion of the contract. All surveys, profiles, diagrams, specifications,
and estimates in reference to any work shall be filed in his/her office for
public inspection. When plans and specifications are required for reference or
for use in doing any work, the engineer shall make or cause to be made copies
of such plans and specifications. Under the direction of the city
administrator, the engineer shall superintend all work and improvements on
streets, alleys, bridges, and public grounds of the City; shall see that all
streets and public ways are graded and open for travel, are kept free from
obstruction and in such repair as to be safe and passable and that all trees
along or over sidewalks shall be trimmed and awnings kept so as not to obstruct
or interfere with public travel; shall supervise and inspect all sewer
connections and the construction and laying out of sewers; shall collaborate
with the utility commission on any new project involving any utility.
(Ord. 763, passed 3-3-1981; Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 2.15 CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The city administrator shall, under
direction of the council, exercise control and supervision over all
administrative affairs of the City government. The administrator shall issue
administrative manuals, orders, rules, directives, and regulations not
inconsistent with the charter, the ordinances of the City and State law, when
approved by the council. The administrator shall recommend to the council and
mayor such measures and policies considered necessary or expedient for the best
operation of the City government. The administrator shall keep the council and
mayor advised of the financial condition and needs of the City and prepare and
submit annually to the council an administrative budget which shall be compiled
from the various departmental budget requests pursuant to Sections
5.5 and
5.6 of the city charter. The administrator shall perform such additional duties
as may be assigned by the city council or by ordinance.
(Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 2.16   MAYOR AS HEAD OF POLICE DEPARTMENT. (Repealed in its entirety
by Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 2.17   SALARIES. The officers of the City shall receive no
compensation for their services except as herein provided. The members of the
city council and the mayor shall each receive for their services such amount as
is from time to time established pursuant to the provisions of Minnesota
Statutes 415.11 and Acts amendatory thereof and thereto. In addition thereto,
the mayor shall also receive a contingency fund in an amount fixed by the city
council. The compensation of all other officers and employees of the City shall
be fixed by the city council at the time such officer or employee is appointed
or hired. The city council may adjust or change such compensation from time to
time.
CHAPTER III
Elections
   Section 3.1   CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS. All City elections shall be held and
conducted and the votes canvassed in the manner provided by law.
   Section 3.2   REGULAR CITY ELECTIONS. The regular City election shall be
held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November of the odd
numbered years.
(Ord. 658, passed 5-3-1977; and by city election - 3-13-1990)
   Section 3.3   SPECIAL ELECTIONS. The city council may call special elections
in the manner provided by law.
   Section 3.4   FILING FEES. Filing fees for the offices of mayor, council
member-at-large, and resident ward council member shall be as established by
the city council by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 823, passed 3-1-1983; Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
CHAPTER IV
City Council
   Section 4.1   COUNCIL AND QUORUM. The council members shall constitute the
city council and shall elect a president and vice-president from their
membership. A majority shall constitute a quorum to transact business but a
smaller number may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of absent
members.
(Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990; Ord. 1222, passed 12-21-1999)
   Section 4.2   POWERS. Unless otherwise expressly provided in this charter,
the city council shall have all powers granted to the City, including
management and control of the finances and property of the City with full power
and authority to make, ordain, establish, publish, alter, modify, amend, and
repeal ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations for the government and
good order of the City, for the protection of its property, for the suppression
of vice, for the prevention of crime, or for the benefit of trade and commerce.
It shall have full power and authority to declare and impose penalties and
punishment against any person, firm, or corporation violating any ordinance,
rule, or regulation. Its ordinances, rules, and regulations shall have the
force of law.
   Section 4.3   MEETINGS. The city council shall hold regular meetings at such
times and places as it shall prescribe by resolution. The first regular meeting
after the biennial election shall be held on the first Tuesday in January. The
mayor or any four (4) council members may call special meetings. Notice of
special meetings shall be delivered to each council member and to the mayor
personally or left at the office or usual place of abode of the person served
with some person of suitable age and discretion residing therein.
(Ord. 823, passed 3-1-1983; Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 4.4   RULES. The city council shall be the judge of the election and
qualification of its members. The proceedings of the city council shall be
governed by Robert’s Rules of Order. It may punish members for misconduct.
Continued absence from six (6) consecutive regular meetings without excuse
shall constitute cause for removal.
   Section 4.5   RECORDS. The city clerk shall keep a record of proceedings of
the city council. When demanded by any member present, the “ayes” and “noes”
upon any question shall be entered on the minutes, and upon final passage of
any ordinance or resolution or motion appropriating money for any purpose, the
ayes and noes shall be entered.
   Section 4.6   ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS. Unless a larger majority is
required under the provisions of this charter, ordinances and resolutions must
be passed by an affirmative vote of a majority of all members and approved by
the mayor. An ordinance shall embrace a single subject, which shall be
expressed in the title. The enacting clause shall be as follows: “The City
Council of the City of Owatonna Do Ordain”. No ordinance shall be passed at the
same meeting at which it is presented, or at any but a regular meeting or an
adjournment thereof. Within forty-eight (48) hours after adoption, the city
clerk shall present each ordinance or resolution to the mayor. If the mayor
approves, he/she shall sign the same. Otherwise, the mayor shall return the
same to the city clerk with objections thereto. The vetoed resolution or
ordinance shall be presented to the city council at its next regular meeting
thereafter. If upon reconsideration the city council shall pass the same by
five-sevenths vote of all members thereof, it shall be in force and effect
without approval by the mayor. If an ordinance or resolution is not returned by
the mayor within seven (7) days after it was presented, Sundays and legal
holidays excepted, it shall be in effect without approval. Every ordinance
together with the affidavit of publication as provided in Section 4.7 and every
resolution shall be recorded by the City Clerk in a separate book. The record
of any ordinance or resolution or a duly certified copy of the record shall be
evidence of passage, approval, and publication. Resolutions need not be
published unless otherwise required by law or unless publication is requested
by the Mayor or two council members.
(Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990; Ord. 1485, passed 4-17-2012)
   Section 4.65   EMERGENCY ORDINANCES. An emergency ordinance is an ordinance
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, morals,
safety, or welfare, in which ordinance the emergency is defined and declared in
a preamble. An emergency ordinance shall be adopted by the affirmative vote of
at least five (5) members of the council and/or the mayor. The mayor shall not
have the right of veto, but he shall have the right to vote. No prosecution
shall be based upon the provision of any emergency ordinance until twenty-four
(24) hours after the ordinance has been filed with the city clerk and posted in
three (3) conspicuous places, or until the ordinance has been published as
provided in Section 4.7, unless the person charged with violation thereof had
actual notice of the passage of the emergency ordinance prior to the act or
omission complained of. Such emergency ordinance shall take effect immediately
upon its passage, or at such later date as it shall specify. Such an ordinance
shall terminate and become null and void after forty-five (45) days from the
day of its enactment, unless enacted in accordance with Section 4.6, above.
(As approved, city election - 3-14-1978)
   Section 4.7   OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER-PUBLICATION-ORDINANCE CODE. At its first
regular meeting each year, the city council shall designate a newspaper of
general circulation in the City as the official paper for publication of all
matters required by law to be published and no ordinance and no resolution
which is required to be published shall be in effect until published therein,
provided that a recodification of existing ordinances may be made under the
direction of the city attorney, and such ordinance code, when certified by the
city attorney to be a recodification of existing ordinances, shall be filed
with the city clerk and shall be in full force and effect without publication.
In the case of lengthy ordinances or resolutions required to be published under
Section 4.6, the city council may by a vote of a majority of its council
members direct that only the title of the ordinance and summary be published,
conforming to Minnesota Statutes Section 331A.01, subdivision 10 as now enacted
or hereinafter amended. Such summary statement shall also contain a notice that
the entire text of the ordinance is available for inspection at the Office of
the City Administrator, and posted on the official bulletin board at the City
Administration Building and also available at the city library, and at any
other public location which the city council may designate. Prior to its
publication the title and text of the summary shall be approved by the city
council upon determination by the council that the summary clearly informs the
public of the intent and effect of the ordinance.
(Ord. 1485, passed 4-17-2012)
   Section 4.8   ACQUIRING AND SELLING PROPERTY. The city council may acquire
by purchase, lease, gift, grant, or condemnation such property as it may deem
necessary as sites for public buildings, streets, or grounds and other
necessary municipal purposes, provided, however, that if the cost to the City
of any parcel so acquired shall exceed an amount equal to five (5) mills on the
value of taxable property in the City, the same shall not be acquired unless
the proposal to acquire the same is submitted to vote of the people and favored
by a majority vote thereof. The city council may sell, convey, and dispose of
any real property not needed for municipal purposes only upon a two-thirds (2/
3rds) majority vote of all members of the City Council.
(Ord. 1458, passed 6-15-2010)
   Section 4.9   CONTRACTS. Every contract to which the City is a party shall
be void unless signed by the mayor and attested by the clerk with the seal of
the City affixed thereto, after the same has been ordered by motion adopted by
a majority of the members of the city council; provided, however, that the
ordinance establishing any board under Chapter VIII may authorize the board by
its president and secretary to enter into valid contracts relating to its
affairs and the Public Utilities Commission shall be authorized to enter into
valid contracts as provided in Chapter IX.
(Ord. 763, passed 3-3-1981)
   Section 4.10   PLATS. Any person desiring to lay out an addition to the City
or subdivide any lot, piece, or parcel of land within the City, including any
tract of land theretofore platted, shall cause the same to be surveyed and
platted in accordance with the provisions of the general laws of the state
relating to town and city plats. The completed and acknowledged survey plat
shall be presented to the city planning commission. The city planning
commission may approve or disapprove the plat or request that it be changed or
modified. The plat, with the recommendation of the city planning commission,
shall then be presented to the city council for acceptance or rejection. When a
plat is accepted, the city clerk shall so certify upon the face of the plat.
The plat may then be filed for record in the manner provided by law. The
acceptance of any plat of an addition or subdivision shall not make the City
liable to grade the streets therein designated.
   Section 4.11   FRANCHISES. The city council may by ordinance grant,
regulate, and control the exercise of any privilege or franchise in, upon, or
over any street or public place in the City. No privilege or franchise shall be
granted for a period of more than twenty-five (25) years, nor shall any
exclusive privilege or franchise be granted unless the proposed ordinance is
submitted to the voters of the City and approved by at least sixty percent
(60%) of those voting thereon.
CHAPTER V
Taxes and Finance
   Section 5.1   FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the City shall be a regular
calendar year, starting on the first day of January in each year and
terminating on the 31st day of December in such year.
(Ord. 657, passed 5-3-1977)
   Section 5.2   PROPERTY TAX. All property taxes shall be assessed and
collected in the manner provided by law. Ad valorem taxes on real and personal
property shall be levied in specific amounts by resolution adopted by the city
council on or before the date prescribed by Minnesota State Statutes Chapter
275 as now existing or hereafter amended.
(Ord. 1478, passed 2-6-2012)
   Section 5.3   BOARD OF EQUALIZATION. The city council shall meet at the
council room as a Board of Equalization for the purpose of reviewing the
assessment of property in the City on such date as is established from time to
time by applicable Minnesota Statutes and regulations of the Department of
Taxation. A majority of the board shall constitute a quorum. The board may
adjourn from day to day until the hearing is finished.
(Ord. 823, passed 3-1-1983)
   Section 5.4   TAXING POWERS. In addition to any specific powers granted by
law, the city council may levy and collect taxes for general or special
purposes on all subjects or objects which the City may lawfully tax.
   Section 5.5   BUDGET ESTIMATES. On or before the first Monday in August, the
heads of departments, officers, boards, commissions, or committees of the city
council charged with the management of any department shall deliver to the city
clerk an estimate in writing of all expenditures for such department during the
ensuing fiscal year, specifying in detail the purposes thereof.
   Section 5.6   PREPARATION OF BUDGET. On or before the date prescribed by
Minnesota State Statutes Chapter 275 as now existing or hereafter amended, the
city administrator or other officer designated by the city council shall
prepare a proposed budget estimate for the entire City which shall show
expenditures of all departments for the ensuing fiscal year, including the
amounts which will be required to pay interest and principal on outstanding
debt and the salaries and other costs and showing in detail the amounts
necessary to be appropriated to each department. The budget estimate shall also
show the estimated revenues from fines, licenses, and other sources of revenue
exclusive of property taxes and the amount to be raised by ad valorem taxes.
(Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990; Ord. 1478, passed 2-6-2012)
   Section 5.7   BUDGET APPROVAL. On or before the date prescribed by Minnesota
State Statutes Chapter 275 as now existing or hereafter amended, the city
council by resolution shall adopt a budget stating the amount required to pay
expenses of the City for the ensuing fiscal year and showing in detail the
amount allowed to each department, office, board, or commission and the amount
of taxes to be levied. In event the entire budget or any item thereof is vetoed
by the mayor, it may be passed by a five-sevenths vote in the manner provided
in this charter for vetoed ordinances or resolutions.
(Ord. 1478, passed 2-6-2012)
   Section 5.8   TAX LEVY. On or before the date prescribed by Minnesota State
Statutes Chapter 275 as now existing or hereafter amended, the city clerk shall
transmit to the county auditor of Steele County a statement of the amount of ad
valorem taxes to be levied by the City and all special assessments of the City
to be collected by the county auditor during the ensuing year, and such taxes
and special assessments shall be levied and collected and payment thereof
enforced with and in like manner as State and other taxes are levied and the
collection enforced.
(Ord. 1478, passed 2-6-2012)
   Section 5.9   FUNDS. The monies and securities in the City treasury, except
funds under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission, shall be
credited to the following funds, to-wit:
      (a)   A Bond and Interest Fund into which shall be paid all monies,
raised by taxation or otherwise provided, for the payment of bonds of the City
and interest thereon and bonds and interest shall be paid from such fund.
      (b)   A General Fund into which shall be paid all monies from taxes,
receipts from licenses and fees, fines and costs, sales of City property, or
from any other source except such as are expressly allocated to a special fund.
All ordinary current expenses, debts and liabilities of the City shall be paid
from such fund.
      (c)   The city council may create other funds which it deems necessary
for the efficient accounting of the City’s affairs. Each fund so designated
shall receive a like proportion of tax proceeds as the taxes levied for such
fund bear to total taxes levied by the City in accordance with the annual
budget.
   The several funds shall be kept separate and distinct and the city clerk or
the treasurer of the several boards or commissions charged with the management
of the funds shall keep a separate account of receipts and disbursements
thereof. Each fund shall be devoted only to the particular purpose for which it
was created, provided that the city council may at any time for any lawful
purpose transfer money under its control from one fund to another fund and it
shall make provision in the next budget for return of the amount to the fund
from which it was taken.
   Section 5.10   PAYMENTS FROM TREASURY. No money shall be paid out of the
City treasury except upon an order specifying the fund as authorized by
resolution or informal motion of the city council or of the board or commission
charged with the management of the fund and signed by the officer designated by
such managing body. Each order shall be made payable to a named person or his/
her order and upon presentation shall be charged against the fund on which it
is drawn. The total amount of such orders shall never exceed the amount
budgeted to each fund. In event there is an insufficient amount on hand to the
credit of any fund to pay an order presented for payment, such order may be
marked not paid for want of funds and shall thereafter bear interest until paid
at such rate as designated by the city council. Each order shall be called for
payment as soon as a sufficient amount is available in the fund.
(Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 5.11   ANNUAL REPORTS. On or before the fifteenth day of March, the
city clerk shall make and submit to the city council a statement of the
financial operations of the City for the preceding fiscal year, including a
statement of the financial condition of the City at the close of such fiscal
year, which shall show all operations and the condition in a manner consistent
with accounting methods of the City.
   Section 5.12   BORROWING. Bonds or other obligations of the City may be
issued in the manner provided by law.
   Section 5.13   CERTIFICATES OF INDEBTEDNESS. Whenever any public improvement
is ordered by the city council, the cost of which is to be paid by special
assessments upon benefited property pursuant to Chapter VI hereof, the City may
issue “certificates of indebtedness” to finance the improvement. Said
certificates of indebtedness shall bear interest at a rate not to exceed the
maximum amount allowable under Minnesota law, shall mature in not more than
twenty (20) years, and shall pledge the full faith and credit of the City to
their payment.
   Section 5.14   TEMPORARY BORROWING. By vote of five-sevenths of all members
and under such regulations as it may prescribe, the city council may issue
temporary certificates of the City in anticipation of taxes or other revenues
collectable during the current fiscal year. Such certificates shall bear
interest at a rate not to exceed the maximum allowable rate permitted under
Minnesota law, and shall fall due in not exceeding one (1) year from their
date. The total amount of such certificates shall not exceed one-third of the
anticipated taxes or other revenues and the proceeds shall be applied to the
same purpose as such taxes or other revenues. When the proceeds of such taxes
or other revenues are received, a sufficient amount shall be used for payment
of the certificates and interest thereon.
   Section 5.15   ADJUSTMENT OF ACCOUNTS. The city council shall examine and
adjust the accounts of all City officers, boards, and employees excepting the
Public Utilities Commission, shall employ expert accountants to make an annual
examination, and shall require such officers, boards, and employees to produce
and exhibit to the city council or to any committee thereof all books, papers,
and vouchers belonging to their respective offices. If any such officer, board,
or employee shall refuse to comply, the city council shall declare the office
vacant and may commence such suit or other proceedings as it may deem suitable.
The city clerk shall keep a full and complete record of all settlements and
adjustments of accounts.
CHAPTER VI
Public Improvements
   Section 6.1   SUPERVISION OF STREETS. The city council shall have the care,
supervision, and control of all public ways, bridges, streets, alleys, and
public grounds within the limits of the City. It shall cause all streets and
alleys which have been opened and graded to be kept open, in repair, and free
from obstruction. It shall have power to build and keep in repair bridges, and
widen, alter, or narrow public squares, highways, streets, lanes, and alleys.
Subject to payment of damages as provided in this charter and by a vote of not
less than five (5) members, it may lay out and open new streets, alleys, or
public grounds, or straighten, widen, or extend any street or alley.
   Section 6.2   VACATING OF STREETS. The council may by ordinance, adopted by
an affirmative vote of not less than five (5) members, vacate any street,
alley, or public right of way, or any part thereof, within the City. Such
vacation may be made only after published notice and an opportunity for
affected property owners and public to be heard, and upon such further terms by
such procedure as the council by ordinance may prescribe. The city clerk-
treasurer shall cause to be filed in the office of the county recorder a
certified copy of any ordinance adopted hereunder and a note thereof shall be
entered by the city engineer on the official map of the City.
(Ord. 729, passed 11-20-1979)
   Section 6.3   GRADE OF STREETS. From time to time, under the direction of
the city engineer, the city council may establish the grade of any highway,
street, sidewalk, alley, or public grounds. It shall cause accurate profiles to
be made and kept in the office of the city engineer in a book or books of
profiles kept for that purpose. Whenever a grade has once been established, it
shall not be changed except by a vote of not less than five (5) members of the
city council and with the consent of all owners of abutting property or after
payment of just compensation for any damage resulting from such change to any
non-consenting owner.
   Section 6.4   SIDEWALKS. Owners of lands abutting upon a highway, street,
lane, or alley in said City, shall construct, reconstruct, and maintain in good
order and repair such sidewalks along the side of the street, lane, or highway
adjoining the land of such owners respectively, as directed by the city
council. All sidewalks shall be built in such manner and of such material and
width, and upon such place and grade as the city council may prescribe.
   Section 6.5   CLEANING STREETS. The city council may designate districts or
portions of streets, highways, and alleys of the City for the purpose of
cleaning the same, and may provide for the cleaning of such districts by
contract or otherwise and on such terms as it may deem advisable.
   Section 6.6   AUTHORITY TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS. (Repealed in its entirety by
Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 6.7   ORDERING IMPROVEMENT. (Repealed in its entirety by Ord. 1017,
passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 6.8   CONTRACTS. (Repealed in its entirety by Ord. 1017, passed 12-
4-1990)
   Section 6.9   ASSESSMENTS AUTHORIZED. (Repealed in its entirety by Ord.
1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 6.10   INITIAL PROCEEDINGS. (Repealed in its entirety by Ord. 1017,
passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 6.11   ORDERING WORK. (Repealed in its entirety by Ord. 1017, passed
12-4-1990)
   Section 6.12   LEVYING ASSESSMENT. (Repealed in its entirety by Ord. 1017,
passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 6.13   CORNER LOT ASSESSMENT. In case a lot which abuts on two (2)
streets has been previously assessed for laying a sewer pipe upon a different
street from the one upon which a proposed sewer is to be extended, the city
council may remit from the assessment of such lot such portion of the second
assessment, not exceeding the amount of assessment for a frontage of sixty-six
(66) feet on such lot, as may be just under all the circumstances of the case.
   Section 6.14   SIDEWALK ASSESSMENT. Whenever the city council shall order
the construction, reconstruction, or repair of any sidewalk, it shall prescribe
the manner of doing the work and shall cause notice to be given to the owner of
lands along which said sidewalk is to be constructed, reconstructed, or
repaired, stating the character of the work, the manner in which it is to be
done, and the time within which the same shall be completed, which statement
may be made in the notice or by reference to any ordinance or resolution then
and theretofore published. The notice shall list all lots of tracts of land in
front or adjacent to which the work is to be done, but the name of the owner or
occupant need not be stated.
   If the owner of land along which the sidewalk is to be constructed,
reconstructed, or repaired shall refuse or, for two (2) weeks following the
giving of the notice, shall neglect to construct, reconstruct, or repair the
same according to the order, the city engineer shall report to the city council
a description of each lot or parcel of land along which the sidewalk has not
been constructed, reconstructed, or repaired and the city council may order the
construction, reconstruction, or repair by City employees or by a contractor
designated by it and thereafter shall assess the cost against such lot and
parcel of land. Assessment for constructing or repairing sidewalks may be in
any form which the city council may adopt.
   Section 6.15   REASSESSMENT. (Repealed in its entirety by Ord. 1017, passed
12-4-1990)
   Section 6.16   INSTALLMENT OF ASSESSMENTS. (Repealed in its entirety by Ord.
1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 6.17   COLLECTION OF ASSESSMENTS. (Repealed in its entirety by Ord.
1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 6.18   VALIDITY OF ASSESSMENTS. (Repealed in its entirety by Ord.
1017, passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 6.19   FORMER ASSESSMENTS. (Repealed in its entirety by Ord. 1017,
passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 6.20   ASSESSMENT LIENS. (Repealed in its entirety by Ord. 1017,
passed 12-4-1990)
   Section 6.21   APPEAL FROM ASSESSMENT. (Repealed in its entirety by Ord.
1017, passed 12-4-1990)
CHAPTER VII
Condemnation
(Repealed in its entirety by Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-1990)
CHAPTER VIII
Boards
(Renumbered by Ord. 841, passed 10-18-1983)
   Section 8.1   POWER TO ESTABLISH BOARDS. The city council may, by ordinance,
establish or abolish any boards which it deems essential or non-essential for
the City operations except the Public Utilities Commission. An ordinance
establishing a board shall fully set forth each board’s powers and duties.
Members serving for three full, consecutive terms shall not be eligible for
reappointment. The number of members and the terms of the Public Utilities
Commission shall be as provided in Chapter IX.
(Ord. 763, passed 3-3-1981; Ord. 896, passed 2-18-1986; Ord. 1017, passed 12-4-
1990)
   Section 8.2   BOARD MEMBERS AND OFFICERS. Subject to the confirmation of the
city council, the mayor shall appoint the members of all boards. Each board
shall elect from its members a president, a vice-president, and a secretary to
serve for a term of one (1) year and until their successors are elected and
qualified. The president shall preside at all meetings and exercise the
functions usually devolved upon the presiding officer of similar boards. The
secretary shall keep a record of all business transacted at the meetings of the
board and of such other matters as the board may direct.
(Ord. 896, passed 2-18-1986)
   Section 8.3   POWERS OF BOARDS. All boards may establish such committees as
they deem necessary. In accordance with the ordinance creating each board, it
shall be responsible for the maintenance and operation of public property under
its charge with power to make such rules, regulations, and by-laws concerning
the same as it deems advisable.
(Ord. 896, passed 2-18-1986)
   Section 8.4   ELIGIBILITY. A person shall be eligible for appointment to any
city board or commission who is an eligible voter and who has maintained
residence in the City for thirty (30) days before appointment.
(Ord. 1444, passed 5-5-2009)
CHAPTER IX
Public Utilities Commission
(Renumbered by Ord. 841, passed 10-18-1983)
   Section 9.1   COMMISSION-POWERS. The Public Utilities Commission,
hereinafter called “Commission”, shall have the entire management and control
of all water, electric light, power, heat, and gas plants and systems now or
hereafter acquired by the City including the building, erecting, constructing,
and equipping of such plants and systems, all such plants and systems being
hereafter collectively called “Owatonna Public Utilities”.
   Section 9.2   COMMISSION-APPOINTMENT. The Commission shall consist of five
(5) members appointed by the mayor and confirmed by vote of a majority of the
city council, which appointments shall be effective May 1st and for a term of
five (5) years, and until their successors are appointed and qualify. No two
(2) Commissioners shall be residents of the same ward, provided that a change
of residence to a different ward shall not shorten the two (2) term limit of
any Commissioner after his appointment. The members in office at the time this
amendment becomes effective shall hold office until the expiration of their
respective terms and until their successors are appointed and qualify. Two (2)
additional members shall be appointed for terms expiring each year. Thereafter,
successors shall be appointed each for a term of five (5) years. In case of
vacancy for any cause, a successor shall be appointed for the unexpiring term.
The term of office of any member shall be no more than two (2) full,
consecutive terms with the privilege of being reappointed after being off the
Commission for one (1) full term. If a member is appointed to fill an unexpired
term, he/she may serve two (2) full terms after completion of the unexpired
term.
(Ord. 841, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 1064, passed 7-21-1992)
   Section 9.3   COMMISSION-REMOVAL. Any member may be removed by two-thirds
vote of the city council in the manner hereinafter provided. There shall first
be filed with the clerk a petition of ten (10) or more freeholders reciting
that such member has been guilty of a misdemeanor, or malfeasance or
misfeasance in office, or has become incapacitated to hold office, or ceases to
be a resident of the City. The city clerk shall thereupon give notice to such
member of the filing of the petition including a copy of such charges and the
time and place of council meeting to consider the same. Which notice may be
given orally or in writing at least ten (10) days prior to the date of such
meeting. The member may present evidence and be heard.
   Section 9.4   COMMISSION-COMPENSATION. One (1) or all members of the
Commission may receive compensation for services actually rendered in such
amount as may be fixed from time to time by the city council.
   Section 9.5   OFFICERS. The Commission shall elect one (1) of its members
president. It may also elect such other officers, as it deems necessary, from
its members. The city clerk-treasurer shall be ex officio, clerk of the
Commission, and shall receive such additional salaries for such work as the
Commission may prescribe.
   Section 9.6   POWER TO INVEST AND BORROW. The Commission may invest and
reinvest funds in its possession. The Commission may make temporary loans in
emergency cases.
   Section 9.7   POWERS IN RESPECT TO LAND. The Commission may use the ground
under any railroad, public way, place, or park for constructing, enlarging,
improving, or repairing of Owatonna Public Utilities on condition the surface
thereof shall be restored to its original state and all damages thereto
repaired. The Commission may exercise the power of eminent domain on behalf of
the City whenever necessary.
   Section 9.8   EMPLOYEES. The Commission shall employ necessary help
including a manager who shall be a competent engineer. The Commission shall
prescribe duties, fix compensation, and discharge any employee at will. It may
require bond from any employee in such amount as it shall fix, covering the
faithful performance of their duties.
   Section 9.9   SURVEYS, INSPECTIONS, LIENS, AND SUITS. The Commission, by
such employees as it may direct, may enter upon any premises at all reasonable
hours for the purpose of examining the same and making surveys and inspection,
and it may sue or make unpaid charges a lien against property served in the
name of the City for any money due it for services or commodities, or for
injury to the Owatonna Public Utilities.
   Section 9.10   BOOKS OF ACCOUNTS. The Commission shall collect and hold all
monies received on account of operations of each utility. It shall keep
separate books containing a full and complete statement of the condition and
operation of each utility, of all money received, of all payments due and
owing, and of all expenses, which books shall be open to inspection of the
public at all reasonable times. Separate accounts within the Public Utilities
Fund shall be kept for each utility. Money shall be paid out for the purpose of
erection, operation, and management of the Owatonna Public Utilities only on
the written order signed by the Commission and clerk. The Commission shall keep
books open to public inspection, showing all receipts, the accounts to which
the same are credited, and all orders made and paid. Such books shall show a
true and correct statement of all accounts.
   Section 9.12   RULES AND REGULATIONS. The Commission may make and enforce
reasonable rules and regulations to carry into effect the powers herein
granted, which rules and regulations shall be recorded in a separate book and
signed by the Commission and open to public inspection at all reasonable times.
   Section 9.13   RATES AND CHARGES. The Commission shall fix the rents and
rates for all commodities furnished by the Owatonna Public Utilities, either to
the public or private consumers, and shall regulate the distribution and use of
all such commodities for all purposes including restraining and preventing any
injury to said utilities. The rates and rents shall be sufficient, so far as
practicable, to provide for operating expenses, repairs, and replacement, and
the creation of a sufficient sinking fund to pay outstanding utilities bonds
and interest thereon when due.
   Section 9.14   PURCHASES. The Commission shall purchase all supplies needed
for operation of the Owatonna Public Utilities under such rules and regulations
as it may establish.
   Section 9.15   ANNUAL STATEMENT. The Commission shall cause to be prepared
and filed in the office of the city clerk-treasurer, on or before the first
city council meeting in May after the close of each fiscal year, an annual
statement, prepared by a certified public accountant, showing all monies on
hand, all receipts, credits, and disbursements on behalf of said utilities
plants during the preceding year, and the true financial condition of each
utility. The Commission shall also cause to be prepared, prior to the close of
each fiscal year, an operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year, which shall
be open to public inspection in the offices of the Owatonna Public Utilities.
(Ord. 791, passed 2-16-1982; Ord. 896, passed 2-18-1986)
   Section 9.16   UTILITIES FURNISHED CITY. Subject to all covenants of the
Commission for the protection of outstanding revenue obligations, the
Commission shall provide the City and all of its departments, except the
Owatonna Public Utilities, with water (including the use of hydrants),
electrical power and light, gas and heat free of any rent or charge, provided
that the total value of all free utility service does not exceed four percent
(4%) of the gross meter billings.
CHAPTER X
Miscellaneous Provisions
(Renumbered by Ord. 841, passed 10-18-1983)
   Section 10.1   VALIDITY OF ORDINANCES. The validity of any ordinance in
force at the time of the adoption of this charter amendment and not
inconsistent herewith, shall not be affected by the adoption hereof, but such
ordinance shall continue and be in force until the same is repealed or amended.
The provisions hereof shall not affect any action or proceeding pending at the
time of adoption.
   Section 10.2   CONTINUANCE IN OFFICE. Except as specifically provided
herein, the adoption of this charter shall not affect the terms of office or
powers of any officer or member of any board theretofore appointed but the same
shall continue in office until changed by ordinance or resolution.
   Section 10.3   EFFECTIVE DATE. This amended charter shall be in effect from
and after the 29th day of March, 2000.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Owatonna City Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as
“10.01". Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of the city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. Owatonna, Minnesota. The term CITY, when used in this code, may
also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code, as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Steele County, Minnesota.
      ET SEQ. Following a section or division, the sections or divisions
designated, together with such sections or divisions following thereafter as
shall pertain to the same subject matter, or otherwise shall be so related that
they shall be considered together for a proper expression of intent or purpose.
(1992 Code, § 1400:25)
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MINOR. An individual under the age of 18 years. The term MINOR, as used
in Title VII of this code of ordinances, shall include any person who has not
attained the age of 21 years.
(1992 Code, § 1400:30)
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to this indication as may appear in the text of the
proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the
ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection. The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide a copy
for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future supplements are hereby adopted as if they had been in
existence at the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention
expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by Minn. Stat. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time
to time, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall have the authority to administer and
enforce this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain
individuals designated within the code or by the Clerk-Treasurer or City
Council shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions
specified. All and any person or persons designated may issue a citation in
lieu of arrest or continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk-Treasurer and any city official or employee designated
by this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may
with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or
resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or
otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk-Treasurer, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the
duty of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Clerk-Treasurer or any other authorized city officer
or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given
to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property,
stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or
other person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Clerk-Treasurer to object to the termination before it occurs,
subject to appeal of the Clerk-Treasurer’s decision to the City Council at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   (a)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision
of this code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed
for any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota
Statutes specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more
than 90 days or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
         (b)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of
this code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference,
which is designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty
of a petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense
which is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than
$300.
         (c)   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time
to time, in either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
         (d)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation.
         (e)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if
any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this
code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
      (2)   The Council hereby expressly states that its legislative intent is
to adopt the provisions of its traffic control ordinances so they will be
identical to or in substantial agreement with state law as to all matters of
wording and meaning with respect to traffic control and to be identical with
the state law in all matters of penalty for violations thereof as required by
the authorization therefor by state statute and as incumbent upon the city by
the decision of the Supreme Court of the state in the State v Hoben, 256 Minn.
436, 98 N.W.2d 813 case. Ordinance violations are referred to throughout this
code as “penal offenses” or “petty offenses.”
      (3)   (a)   Upon prosecution for any offense under this entire code, the
actor may be convicted of either the offense charged or an included offense,
but not both. An included offense may be any of the following:
            1.   A lesser degree of the same offense;
            2.   An attempt to commit the offense charged;
            3.   An attempt to commit a lesser degree of the same offense;
            4.   An offense necessarily proved if the offense charged were
proved; or
            5.   A petty offense necessarily proved if the penal offense charge
were proved.
         (b)   A conviction or acquittal of an offense is a bar to further
prosecution of any included offense, or other degree of the same offense.
(1992 Code, § 1100:10)
      (4)   Violation by a licensee of any provision of this code or state law
regulating, prescribing conditions or establishing requirements relative to
licenses held by such a licensee shall be grounds for revocation of such
license.
(1992 Code, § 1100:15)
   (B)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   (a)   The purpose of this division (B) is to provide the public and
the city with an informal, cost effective and expeditious alternative to
traditional criminal charges for violations of certain city ordinances. The
city finds that such an alternative will have the effect of reducing nuisance
violations and motor vehicle accidents within the city, and provide the city’s
law enforcement officials with an additional, effective enforcement tool.
(1992 Code, § 1100:20)
         (b)   This division is not applicable to violations of the Minnesota
Highway Traffic Regulation Act, Minn. Stat. §§ 169.01 through 169.99.
      (2)   An ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE is a violation of any section of this
code of ordinances and is subject to the civil penalties identified in the
city’s fee schedule, updated from time to time by city resolution. An
administrative offense in not a crime.
(1992 Code, § 1100:25)
      (3)   Any police officer or other person employed by the city with
authority to enforce the city code may, upon determining that there has been a
violation of an ordinance, notify the violator, party responsible for the
violation or, in the case of a vehicular violation, attach notice of the
violation to the vehicle. The notice shall state the nature, date and time of
the violation, the name of the official issuing the notice, the amount of the
civil penalty and required compliance actions if applicable.
(1992 Code, § 1100:30)
      (4)   A party who has received notice of a violation may, within seven
days after the notice is issued, pay the penalty amount set forth on the
notice. The penalty may be paid in person at City Administrator’s office or by
mail. Payment shall be deemed an admission of the violation and the city shall
not bring a criminal charge for such violation. Alternatively, a party who has
received notice of a violation may, within seven days after the notice is
issued, contest the administrative offense by requesting a court appearance. A
person requesting a court appearance will be issued a citation/summons for the
violation and a court date will be set. Upon issuance of a citation/summons for
the violation, the administrative offense procedure set forth in this division
(B) shall terminate.
(1992 Code, § 1100:35)
      (5)   In the event a party charged with an administrative offense fails
to pay the penalty specified on the notice of violation, or request a court
appearance, within seven days of issuance of notice of the violation, a
misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor charge may be brought against the violator in
accordance with applicable city code or state law. Upon issuance of a
misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor charge for a violation, the administrative
offense procedure set forth in this division (B) shall terminate.
(1992 Code, § 1100:40)
      (6)   Repeated violations of two or more similar offenses within a 12-
month period shall result in a doubling of the penalty established for the
violation. Additional offenses within another 12-month period shall result in
additional fines not to exceed five times the amount of the original penalty.
(1992 Code, § 1100:45)
      (7)   The procedures of this division (B) are voluntary. At any time
prior to the payment of the administrative penalty provided for in this
division (B), the party charged with an offense may withdraw from participation
in the procedures of this division (B), in which event the city may bring
criminal charges in accordance with law. Likewise, the city, in its sole
discretion, may choose not to initiate an administrative offense charge and may
instead bring criminal charges. In the event a party participates in the
administrative offense procedures, but does not pay the monetary penalty
imposed, the city shall seek to collect the costs of the administrative offense
procedure as part of a subsequent criminal sentence in the event the party is
charged and is found guilty of the criminal violation.
(1992 Code, § 1100:50)
      (8)   All penalties collected pursuant to this division (B) shall be paid
to the city and deposited into the General Fund.
(1992 Code, § 1100:55)
(Ord. 1309, passed 3-18-2003; Ord. 1436, passed 11-18-2008)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   WARD LINES
      
31.   CITY COUNCIL
      
32.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES; ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   CITY POLICIES
      
34.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
      
35.   FEES AND CHARGES
CHAPTER 30: WARD LINES
Section
   
30.01   Ward lines
§ 30.01 WARD LINES.
   The five wards of the city are hereby to be described as follows:
   (A)   First Ward. The portion of the city lying east of the following
boundary: from the center of the intersection of Rose Street and the east city
limits line west along the centerline of Rose Street to the center of its
intersection with Willow Avenue; thence south along the centerline of Willow
Avenue to the center of its intersection with Vine Street; thence westerly
along the centerline of Vine Street to the center of its intersection with
Grove Avenue; thence south along the centerline of Grove Avenue to the center
of its intersection with Broadway Street; thence west along the centerline of
Broadway Street to the center of its intersection with West Park Square; thence
south along the centerline of West Park Square to the center of its
intersection with Main Street; thence east along the centerline of Main Street
to the center of its intersection with South Cedar Avenue; thence south along
the centerline of South Cedar Avenue to the center of its intersection with
School Street; thence east along the centerline of School Street to the center
of its intersection with Harriet Avenue; thence southerly along the centerline
of Harriet Avenue to the center of its intersection with South Street; thence
easterly along the centerline of South Street to the center of its intersection
with Lincoln Avenue; thence south along the centerline of Lincoln Avenue to the
center of its intersection with Austin Road; thence southerly along the
centerline of Austin Road to the center of its intersection with 18th Street
SE; thence east along the centerline of 18th Street SE to the east city limits
line;
   (B)   Second Ward. The portion of the city lying east of the following
boundary: from the center of the intersection of 24th Avenue NE and the north
city limits line south along the centerline of 24th Avenue NE to its
intersection with 26th Street NE; thence southerly along the centerline of
Kenyon Road to the center of its intersection with Mineral Springs Road; thence
southwesterly along the centerline of Mineral Springs Road to the center of its
intersection with Bigelow Avenue; thence north along the centerline of Bigelow
Avenue to the center of its intersection with 14th Street NE; thence west along
the centerline of 14th Street NE to the center of its intersection with North
Elm Avenue; thence south along the centerline of North Elm Avenue to the center
of its intersection with 11th Street NE; thence west along the centerline of
11th Street NE to the center of its intersection with North Cedar Avenue;
thence south along the centerline of North Cedar Avenue to the centerline of
its intersection with Broadway Street; thence easterly along the centerline of
East Broadway Street to the center of its intersection with Grove Avenue;
thence north along the centerline of Grove Avenue to the center of its
intersection with Vine Street; thence easterly along the centerline of Vine
Street to the center of its intersection with Willow Avenue; thence north along
the centerline of Willow Avenue to the center of its intersection with Rose
Street; thence east along the centerline of Rose Street to the east city limits
line;
   (C)   Third Ward. The portion of the city lying west of the following
boundary: from the center of the intersection of Union Pacific Railroad and the
south city limits line northerly along the centerline of Union Pacific Railroad
to the center of its intersection with School Street; thence east along the
centerline of School Street to the center of its intersection with South Cedar
Avenue; thence north along the centerline of South Cedar Avenue to the center
of its intersection with Main Street; thence westerly along the centerline of
Main Street to the center of its intersection with West Park Square; thence
north along the centerline of West Park Square to the center of its
intersection with Broadway Street; thence easterly along the centerline of
Broadway Street to the center of its intersection with North Cedar Avenue;
thence north along the centerline of North Cedar Avenue to the north city
limits line;
   (D)   Fourth Ward. The portion of the city lying south of the following
boundary: from the center of the intersection of Union Pacific Railroad and the
south city limits line northerly along the centerline of Union Pacific Railroad
to the center of its intersection with School Street; thence east along the
centerline of School Street to the center of its intersection with Harriet
Avenue; thence south along the centerline of Harriet Avenue to the center of
its intersection with South Street; thence east along the centerline of South
Street to the center of its intersection with Lincoln Avenue; thence southerly
along the centerline of Lincoln Avenue to the center of its intersection with
Austin Road; thence southerly along the centerline of Austin Road to the center
of its intersection with 18th Street SE; thence east along the centerline of
18th Street SE to the east city limits line; and
   (E)   Fifth Ward. The portion of the city lying north of the following
boundary: from the center of the intersection of 24th Avenue NE and the north
city limits line south along the centerline of 24th Avenue NE to its
intersection with 26th Street NE; thence southerly along the centerline of
Kenyon Road to the center of its intersection with Mineral Springs Road; thence
southwesterly along the centerline of Mineral Springs Road to the center of its
intersection with Bigelow Avenue; thence north along the centerline of Bigelow
Avenue to the center of its intersection with 14th Street NE; thence west along
the centerline of 14th Street NE to the center of its intersection with North
Elm Avenue; thence south along the centerline of North Elm Avenue to the center
of its intersection with 11th Street NE; thence west along the centerline of
11th Street NE to the center of its intersection with North Cedar Avenue;
thence northerly along the centerline of North Cedar Avenue to the north city
limits line.
(1992 Code, § 115:00) (Ord. 1484, passed 4-2-2012; Ord. 1630, passed 4-5-2022)
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
31.01   Regular meetings
   
31.02   Special meetings
   
31.03   All meetings to be public
   
31.04   No meetings during precinct caucus
   
31.05   Presiding officer
   
31.06   Quorum
   
31.07   Roll call
   
31.08   Silence constituting affirmative vote; majority vote construed
   
31.09   Parliamentary practice
   
31.10   Suspension of rules
   
31.11   Vacancy
§ 31.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   Time. The first regular meeting after the biennial election shall be
held on the first Tuesday of January in such year. Thereafter, the City Council
shall hold regular meetings on the first and third Tuesday of each month at the
hour as designated by resolution of the Council; provided, however, that, when
the day fixed for any regular meeting of the Council falls upon a day
designated by law as a legal or a national holiday, such meeting shall be held
at the same hour on the next succeeding day, not a holiday.
   (B)   Place. All regular meetings of the Council shall be held in the
Council Chambers in the city administration building in said city; provided,
however, that, such regular meetings may be from time to time adjourned to such
other time or location as may be determined by the Council.
(1992 Code, § 100:00)
§ 31.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor or, at his or her refusal, any four members of the Council may
call special meetings by notice to each of the members, to be delivered
personally or left at their usual place of abode with some person of suitable
age and discretion residing therein.
(1992 Code, § 100:05)
§ 31.03 ALL MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
   All Council meetings, including special and adjourned meetings, shall be
open to the public.
(1992 Code, § 100:10)
§ 31.04 NO MEETINGS DURING PRECINCT CAUCUS.
   No Council meeting shall be conducted after 7:00 p.m. on the day of a
political party precinct caucus, nor before 8:00 p.m. on any election day in
the city.
(1992 Code, § 100:15)
§ 31.05 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The President and Vice-President shall be elected biennially at the first
regular meeting after the biennial election by the members from their
membership. The President, or Vice-President in the President’s absence or at
the President’s request, shall be the presiding officer of the Council. The
President of the Council or, in his or her absence, the Vice-President of the
Council shall take the chair precisely at the hour appointed by the meeting and
shall immediately call the Council to order.
(1992 Code, § 100:20) (Ord. 1221, passed 12-21-1999)
§ 31.06 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the members elected to the Council shall constitute a
quorum at any regular or special meeting of the Council. A smaller number may,
however, adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of absent members.
(1992 Code, § 100:25)
§ 31.07 ROLL CALL.
   Before proceeding with the business of the Council, the Clerk-Treasurer or
his or her deputy shall call the roll of the members in an order to be
determined by the President elect immediately upon his or her taking such
office.
(1992 Code, § 100:30)
§ 31.08 SILENCE CONSTITUTING AFFIRMATIVE VOTE; MAJORITY VOTE CONSTRUED.
   On a voice vote where no roll is called and where no ballots are cast,
unless a member of the Council stated that he or she is not voting, his or her
silence shall be recorded as an affirmative vote. Where a mere majority vote on
the proposition is required and there is a quorum present, it shall be
sufficient to carry such proposition if the number voting on such proposition
shall be a majority of the votes actually cast; provided that, the number
voting in favor of such proposition shall equal a majority of all the members
of the Council.
(1992 Code, § 100:35)
§ 31.09 PARLIAMENTARY PRACTICE.
   The rules of parliamentary practice, embraced in Robert’s Rules of Order
Revised, as amended, shall govern the Council in all cases to which they are
applicable, and in which they are not inconsistent with the Charter of the city
and the standing rules of the Council. The City Attorney shall act as
parliamentarian and the President or, in his or her absence, the presiding
officer shall decide the questions of order, subject to an appeal to the
Council.
(1992 Code, § 100:40)
§ 31.10 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   No rule of the Council shall be suspended, altered or rescinded, except upon
the affirmative vote of four members of the Council and unless notice of such
change shall have been given at a previous meeting.
(1992 Code, § 100:45)
§ 31.11 VACANCY.
   (A)   Where a vacancy on the Council exists and where there are more than
two applicants for the vacancy, the Council shall conduct a preliminary
election among its members. Each Council member shall vote for two of the
applicants. Subsequent ballots shall be taken until two nominations remain. A
final ballot shall be taken between the two nominees and the nominee receiving
a simple majority shall be sworn and seated and shall serve until the next
regular city election.
   (B)   In the event of a tie vote, the Mayor shall cast the deciding vote.
(1992 Code, § 100:50)
CHAPTER 32: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES; ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Amount of salaries
   
32.002   Filing fees
   
32.003   City Administrator; established duties
   
32.004   Departments enumerated
   
32.005   Duties of certain officers
Human Rights Commission
   
32.020   Creation; purpose; membership
   
32.021   Officers; meetings; conduct of business
   
32.022   Powers and duties
West Hills Commission
   
32.035   Establishment
   
32.036   Duties
   
32.037   Meetings and reports
Park and Recreation Board
   
32.050   Establishment
   
32.051   Appointment; term and vacancies
   
32.052   Officers; duties
   
32.053   Board; powers and duties
Planning Commission; Zoning Board of Appeals
   
32.065   Planning Commission continued
   
32.066   Comprehensive Plan
   
32.067   Plats
   
32.068   Official map
   
32.069   Zoning
   
32.070   Special projects
   
32.071   Zoning Board of Appeals; duties
Fire Department Civil Service Commission
   
32.085   Establishment and membership
   
32.086   Terms of office
   
32.087   Duties of Commission
Library Board
   
32.100   Establishment
   
32.101   Officers; duties
   
32.102   Board; powers and duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 AMOUNT OF SALARIES.
   (A)   Council members. The salary of each Council member of the city, except
the President of the Council and the Vice President of the Council, shall be
$1,000 per month from and after 1-1-2023.
   (B)   President of the Council. The salary of the President of the Council
of the city shall be $1,150 per month from and after 1-1-2023.
   (C)   Vice President of the Council. The salary of the Vice President of the
Council of the city shall be $1,100 per month from and after 1-1-2023.
   (D)   Mayor of the Council. The salary of the Mayor of the city shall be
$1,200 per month from and after 1-1-2023.
   (E)   Officers salaries. Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 415.11 and acts
amendatory thereto and Sec.
2.17 of the City Charter, on or before the second meeting of the City Council
in May, 2019 and at least every four years thereafter, the City Council shall
review the salaries of members of the City Council and of the Mayor, provided,
however, that no change in any salary shall take effect until after the next
succeeding municipal election.
(1992 Code, § 110:00) (Ord. 1119, passed 8-15-1995; Ord. 1512, passed 5-20-
2014; Ord. 1540, passed 7-5-2015; Ord. 1577, passed 4-3-2018; Ord. 1623, passed
9-7-2021)
§ 32.002 FILING FEES.
   (A)   Any voter of the city qualified under the state constitution for
elective office may, by filing an affidavit and paying a filing fee of $20 to
the City Clerk-Treasurer, have his or her name placed on the municipal election
ballot.
   (B)   (1)   A candidate for municipal office may file a petition in place of
the filing fees specified in division (A) above.
      (2)   The petition shall meet the requirements specified in state
statutes.
(1992 Code, § 110:05)
§ 32.003 CITY ADMINISTRATOR; ESTABLISHED DUTIES.
   (A)   In accordance with §
2.2 of the City Charter, there is hereby created the office of “City
Administrator” of the city. The City Administrator shall be appointed by the
City Council.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall, under direction of the Council, exercise
control and supervision over all administrative affairs of the city government
and, to that end, may investigate, examine or inquire into the affairs or
operation of any department, division, office or other units of the city
administration.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall issue administrative manuals, orders,
rules, directives and regulations not inconsistent with the Charter, the
ordinances of the city and state law, when approved by the Council. Such rules,
manuals, orders, directives and regulations shall outline the general and
specific procedures for the administration of the city’s activities.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall recommend to the Council and Mayor such
measures and policies considered necessary or expedient for the best operation
of the city government.
   (E)   The City Administrator shall keep the Council and Mayor advised of the
financial condition and needs of the city and prepare and submit annually to
the Council an administrative budget which shall be compiled from the various
departmental budget requests pursuant to §§
5.5 and
5.6 of the City Charter.
   (F)   The City Administrator may temporarily reassign personnel who can be
spared from one department to another department in need of additional help.
   (G)   The City Administrator may assign work projects to the proper
department or departments.
   (H)   The City Administrator shall perform such additional duties as may be
assigned by the City Council or by ordinance.
   (I)   (1)   The City Administrator shall conduct the recruitment and
screening process for hiring of all department heads, except the City Attorney.
         (a)   The Park and Recreation Board shall designate representatives to
jointly conduct the recruitment and screening process for the position of
Director of Parks and Recreation.
         (b)   The Library Board shall designate representatives to jointly
conduct the recruitment and screening process for the position of Director of
Library Services.
      (2)   Interviews of finalists shall be conducted by the City
Administrator, board representatives, where specified, and two representatives
of the City Council. A final recommendation shall be presented to the City
Council for approval.
   (J)   The City Administrator or his or her designee shall serve as the
city's Responsible Authority as defined in Minn. Stat. § 13.02, Subd. 16 of the
Minnesota Government Data Practices Act. Requests for government data shall be
submitted to the City Administrator. The City Administrator may require the
requesting person to pay the actual costs of searching for and retrieving
government data, including the cost of employee time, and for making,
certifying, and electronically transmitting the copies of the data or the data,
but may not charge for separating public from not public data. However, if 100
or fewer pages of black and white, letter or legal size paper copies are
requested, actual costs shall not be used, and instead, the City Administrator
may charge no more than $0.25 for each page copied.
   (K)   Upon written request, the City Administrator or his or her designee
shall certify the amounts of any municipal assessments against any parcel of
real estate within the city and charge a fee in an amount established by the
City Council from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 130:00) (Ord. 1074, passed 8-17-1993; Am. Ord. 1552, passed 1-3-
2017; Am. Ord. 1553, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 32.004 DEPARTMENTS ENUMERATED.
   In order to provide for the economic, efficient and prompt discharge of the
necessary administrative functions of the city, the administrative service of
the city government shall be divided into operating departments as hereinafter
set forth:
   (A)   A City Administrator who shall be the City Clerk-Treasurer;
   (B)   A Public Works Department which shall be directed by the Public Works
Director/City Engineer;
   (C)   A Community Development Department which shall be directed by the
Community Development Director;
   (D)   A Finance Department which shall be directed by the Finance Director;
   (E)   A Park and Recreation Department which shall be directed by the
Director of Parks and Recreation;
   (F)   A Library Department which shall be directed by the Director of
Library Services;
   (G)   A Fire Department which shall be directed by the Fire Chief;
   (H)   A Police Department which shall be directed by the Chief of Police;
   (I)   An Information Technology Department which shall be directed by the
Information Technology Director;
   (J)   A Human Resource Department which shall be directed by the Human
Resource Director; and
   (K)   A Legal Department which shall be directed by the City Attorney.
(1992 Code, § 130:03) (Am. Ord. 1544, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 32.005 DUTIES OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
   At the direction of the City Administrator, the heads of departments, except
the City Attorney, shall have the duties hereinafter described:
   (A)   Be immediately responsible to the City Administrator for the effective
administration of their respective departments and all activities assigned
thereto and, to that end, they shall have the power to establish work rules and
to initiate disciplinary proceedings in accordance with established policies of
the Council;
   (B)   Keep informed as to the latest practices in their particular field and
shall inaugurate, with the approval of the City Administrator and Council, such
new practices as appear to be of benefit to the service and to the public;
   (C)   Submit, as requested, reports of the activities of their departments
to the City Administrator;
   (D)   Establish and maintain a system of filing and indexing records and
reports in sufficient detail to furnish all information necessary for proper
control of departmental activities and to form a basis for the periodic reports
to the City Administrator;
   (E)   Be responsible for the proper maintenance of all city property and
equipment used in their departments;
   (F)   Cooperate with each other and furnish, upon the request of the City
Administrator or the Council, service, labor and materials as may be
requisitioned by the head of any other department, and as its own facilities
permit, through the same procedure and subject to the same audit and control as
other expenditures are incurred;
   (G)   Be responsible for recommending to the City Administrator changes in
codes, ordinances and internal departmental organizations which will improve
the operations of their departments;
   (H)   Be responsible for submitting an annual budget request to the City
Administrator which will include proposed additions or reductions in staff,
adjustments in salary schedules and additions to plant and equipment;
   (I)   Have responsibility for keeping the city administration advised as to
the programs and policies of other governmental agencies which might affect the
city’s operations within the designated area of responsibility;
   (J)   Have authority to hire, subject to the approval of the City
Administrator, all employees for their departments; and
   (K)   Have the authority to effectively recommend to the City Administrator
the heads of all divisions within their department where such appointments are
not provided for in this code or elsewhere.
(1992 Code, § 130:09)
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
§ 32.020 CREATION; PURPOSE; MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby established a Human Rights Commission. The purpose of the
Commission is to promote the acceptance of cultural diversity in the city; to
promote the elimination of hate, prejudice and discrimination against persons
or groups based on race, color, gender, creed, religion, national origin, sex,
marital status, familial status, disability, status with regard to public
assistance, sexual orientation, and age all as defined in M.S. § 363A.03
(herein “protected classes”); to educate the community on issues of
discrimination and cultural diversity; to advise the City Council and
administration on human rights issues; and to promote the goals and objectives
of the State Human Rights Act, being Minn. Stat. §§ 363A.01 et seq. The
Commission shall consist of seven members who shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council. Appointments to the Commission should
reflect a broad cross section of the ethnic, cultural and other diversity of
the community. In making appointments, consideration should be given to persons
of protected classes, including persons of either sex, sexual orientation,
various economic levels, racial and ethnic minorities, various age groups
including senior citizens and students, property owners and tenants. Of the
first seven appointments, three shall be for three years, two shall be for two
years and two shall be for one year. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for
a term of three years. All members who have served for two full consecutive
terms shall not be eligible for reappointment. Members shall serve without
compensation.
(Ord. 1234, passed 6-6-2000; Ord. 1571, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 32.021 OFFICERS; MEETINGS; CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   Within 60 days after all its members are appointed, the Human Rights
Commission shall meet and elect a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson. The
Commission shall establish by-laws for the selection of any additional
officers, the time, place and frequency of meetings, and rules for the conduct
of its business.
(Ord. 1234, passed 6-6-2000)
§ 32.022 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Human Rights Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   To collaborate with other organizations to assist in educating the
community about diversity issues;
      (2)   To assess the human relations and civil rights needs of the
community and to advise the administration and City Council of the results of
these assessments;
      (3)   To advise the administration and City Council on matters concerning
the State Human Rights Act, being Minn. Stat. §§ 363A.01 et seq.;
      (4)   To cooperate with other groups and governmental agencies concerned
with human rights;
      (5)   To form study groups and advisory committees to the Commission,
which may include persons who are not members of the Commission, to assist in
the accomplishment of its duties;
      (6)   To provide support and information services to persons in matters
of discrimination and intolerance; and
      (7)   To develop a community-wide readiness plan to address problems
arising from discrimination or intolerance.
   (B)   The Commission shall have the power to seek outside funding sources in
addition to resources supplied by the city to assist in its mission. All
outside monies or grants received by the Commission are subject to the city’s
Charter and ordinance provisions.
(Ord. 1234, passed 6-6-2000) (Ord. 1523, passed 5-5-2015)
WEST HILLS COMMISSION
§ 32.035 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a commission to be known and designated as
the “West Hills Commission”.
   (B)   It shall be composed of five members appointed by the Mayor, confirmed
by the majority vote of the Council. Five members shall be appointed and
confirmed from citizens interested in the preservation of the West Hills. Each
Commissioner shall serve until a successor is duly appointed and approved.
Vacancies caused by death, resignation or otherwise shall be filled for the
unexpired term in the same manner as original appointments are made. All terms
shall expire on April 30, three years hence. Such appointment of members shall
be made at the second regular meeting in April of each year. All members who
have served for two full consecutive terms shall not be eligible for
reappointment.
(1992 Code, § 279:00) (Ord. 1231, passed 5-2-2000)
§ 32.036 DUTIES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after the appointment of said Commission and
the approval of the members thereof, upon call of the Mayor, said Commission
shall meet and organize by the election of a Chairperson and Secretary. The
said Commission shall then provide for the adoption of rules and procedures for
the holding of regular and special meetings as said Commission shall deem
advisable and necessary in order to perform the duties set forth.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission shall serve as an advisory body to the Council
and shall plan and promote and encourage the preservation of the West Hills
property.
      (2)   It shall advise the Council both with respect to the general
policies and detail administration of all matters having to do with the use of
the West Hills property including, by way of explanation, but not by way of
limitation, determination of compatible uses, preservation measures, leases,
alterations and sign designation.
(1992 Code, § 279:05) (Ord. 1231, passed 5-2-2000)
§ 32.037 MEETINGS AND REPORTS.
   The Commission shall meet at least annually and, from time to time, on the
call of the Mayor, its Chairperson or a majority of its members, and it shall
keep an accurate record of all proceedings which shall be furnished to the
members of the Council as soon after each meeting of the Commission as
practicable. At the end of each year, it shall make and file with the Council a
full report of its transactions for the preceding year.
(1992 Code, § 279:10) (Ord. 1231, passed 5-2-2000)
PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 32.050 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby continued as heretofore established in the city a Board to
be known as the “Park and Recreation Board of the City of Owatonna”, which
shall consist of seven members, who shall serve without compensation.
(1992 Code, § 255:00)
§ 32.051 APPOINTMENT; TERM AND VACANCIES.
   Subject to confirmation by the Council, the Mayor shall, at the second
regular meeting in April of each year, appoint the requisite number of members
to the Park and Recreation Board of the city, hereinafter called “Board”, to
fill any existing vacancies. The term of each newly appointed member of the
Board shall be for three years from and after May 1 in the year of appointment
and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. All members who have
served for three full, consecutive terms shall not be eligible for
reappointment. Vacancies in the Board shall be appointed and confirmed in like
manner for the remainder of the unexpired term. All members shall be residents
of the city and shall be at least 18 years of age, and shall take and subscribe
to the oath provided in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer before their
appointment shall become effective. Said Board shall consist of seven members,
all to be appointed at large for a term of three years, and on May 1 in three-
year intervals thereafter.
(1992 Code, § 255:05)
§ 32.052 OFFICERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   At the first meeting to be held in May of each year, the Board shall
elect from its members a President, Vice-President and a Secretary, to serve
for a term of one year and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(1992 Code, § 255:10)
   (B)   (1)   The President and, in his or her absence, the Vice-President
shall preside at all meetings and exercise the functions usually devolving upon
the presiding officers of similar bodies.
      (2)   The Secretary shall keep a record of all business transactions at
the meetings of the Board and of such other matters as the Board may direct.
(1992 Code, § 255:15)
§ 32.053 BOARD; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have power to establish such committees thereof as it may
see fit and shall have the responsibility to advise the City Council about all
operations of parks and recreational programming as offered by the Department
of Park and Recreation. The Board shall be charged to evaluate the delivery of
services and quality of facilities. The Board shall annually submit to the City
Council a report on its evaluation of present services and facilities, as well
as projecting future leisure service needs of the Park and Recreation
Department. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Board shall
have no jurisdiction over roads and public ways in any park in the city without
prior approval from the Council. The Board is empowered to accept and receive
all donations and contributions for public park or for recreation facilities
that may be made to the city. The Board is empowered to do all things necessary
for the efficient operation and management of the public parks and recreation
facilities in the city to the extent that may be permitted by law; provided,
however, that, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Board shall
not be authorized to levy or impose taxes.
(1992 Code, § 255:20)
PLANNING COMMISSION; ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 32.065 PLANNING COMMISSION CONTINUED.
   (A)   A Planning Commission is hereby continued as heretofore established to
be known as the “Planning Commission of the City of Owatonna”. Said Commission
shall consist of seven members, one member of which shall be appointed from
each ward and two from the city at large. The Mayor shall seek candidates for
each Planning Commission position. Candidates will be reviewed by a committee
of the Mayor, President of the Planning Commission and City Planner, with
recommendations forwarded to the City Council by May 30 for review and
subsequent approval. Appointments made to fill mid-term vacancies shall be done
so in an expeditious manner. Resignation from the Planning Commission shall be
in writing, submitted to the Mayor who shall notify the City Council and
Planning Commission of the vacancy. Each member shall be appointed for a term
of three years. The members of the Planning Commission in office at this time
shall hold office until April 30 of the year in which their terms expire and
until their successors are appointed and qualified and the present series of
staggered terms shall be continued. All department heads and other city staff
members shall cooperate with the Commission and, upon request of the
Commission, shall assist in every possible manner the work of the Commission.
The City Planner shall act as Secretary of the Commission. The Commission shall
annually elect from its members a President and a Vice-President to serve until
their successors are elected and qualified. Members who have served for three
full, consecutive terms shall not be eligible for reappointment.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may adopt by-laws and rules of procedures and
operations consistent with city ordinance and applicable state legislation;
except that, such by-laws must provide for a minimum of one regularly scheduled
meeting a month. Such by-laws shall be submitted to the City Council for
approval.
(1992 Code, § 260:00) (Ord. 1065, passed 8-18-1992)
§ 32.066 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   The Planning Commission is charged with the development and subsequent
revision of the city’s Comprehensive Plan. The content, form of the plan and
procedure for plan adoption and amendment shall be consistent with state
municipal planning legislation. After adoption, the Planning Commission shall
submit to the City Council the Comprehensive Plan, any element of such plan or
revision of existing plan. After review, the City Council may, by resolution of
a majority of its members, adopt and amend the Comprehensive Plan or portion of
plan. Until so adopted by the governing body, the plan shall constitute only
the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   After the Comprehensive Plan has been adopted by the City Council, no
publicly owned interest in real property within the municipality shall be
acquired or disposed of, nor shall any capital improvement in excess of
$100,000 be authorized by the municipality until after the Planning Commission
has reviewed the proposed acquisition, disposal or capital improvement and
reported in writing to the City Council or other political subdivision
concerned, its findings as to compliance of the proposed acquisition, disposal
or improvement with the comprehensive municipal plan.
   (C)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS shall mean
buildings or structures with construction costs in excess of $100,000; or the
construction of community infrastructure including streets, sanitary and storm
sewer, and water lines when such streets or lines shall extend into and serve a
previously undeveloped or unserved area.
      (2)   The maintenance or replacement of equipment and the servicing of
individual properties from the street to the building is not included. Failure
of the Planning Commission to report on the proposal within 45 days after such
a reference shall be deemed to have satisfied the requirements of this
provision.
      (3)   The City Council may, by resolution adopted by two-thirds vote,
dispense with the requirements of this section when, in its judgment, it finds
that the proposed acquisition or disposal of real property or capital
improvement has no relationship to the comprehensive municipal plan.
(1992 Code, § 260:05) (Ord. 1065, passed 8-18-1992)
§ 32.067 PLATS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission of the city may establish such reasonable
regulations and restrictions as it deems advisable to ensure the planned growth
and expansion of the city and said Planning Commission may prescribe
requirements before approving plats.
   (B)   Such regulations, restrictions and requirements shall be consistent
with applicable state law. No plat shall be accepted or filed without the
approval of said Planning Commission and of the City Council. All proposed
streets and public ways on such plat shall conform to the plans of the
municipality as indicated upon the official map.
(1992 Code, § 260:10) (Ord. 1065, passed 8-18-1992)
§ 32.068 OFFICIAL MAP.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may provide for the future laying out of
streets outside of platted territory and extending across unplatted territory
within the corporate limits of the city, and may provide for the future
widening or improvement of any existing streets or highways, and may, in
cooperation with the City Engineer, prepare a map of the city to be known as
the official map of the city, which map shall indicate thereupon the proposed
future extensions or widening of existing streets of the municipality. Before
said map shall be adopted as such official map, a public hearing shall be held
after ten-days’ notice thereof has been given in a legal newspaper published
within the city. After such map has been adopted showing extensions of existing
streets, alleys or other public areas, the city is not required in such
proceedings to pay for any building or structure placed without a permit or in
violation of conditions of a permit within the limits of the mapped street or
outside of any building line that may have been established upon the existing
street or within any area thus identified for public purposes.
   (B)   No utility, municipal service or improvement shall be constructed on
any street, highway, alley or other public way until the said street, highway,
alley or other public way has been approved by being designated upon a plat or
dedicated by easement, duly approved and accepted or properly indicated upon an
official map of the municipality as herein provided. No permit for the erection
of any building shall be issued unless it shall be located upon a street or
highway giving access thereto which has been duly approved and placed on the
official map, and shall conform to the building line established upon a street
of the city and as projected into this plat or to the lines therein
established.
(1992 Code, § 260:15) (Ord. 1065, passed 8-18-1992)
§ 32.069 ZONING.
   The Planning Commission shall exercise such duties and responsibilities as
provided in the city’s Zoning Ordinance, including the initiation of Zoning
Ordinance amendments, and shall be the body responsible for holding public
hearings for Zoning Ordinance amendments and conditional use permits.
(1992 Code, § 260:20)
§ 32.070 SPECIAL PROJECTS.
   Upon direction of the City Council, or by its own initiative, the Planning
Commission may hold public hearings and develop plans and recommendations on
specific issues that may not be specifically addressed in the Comprehensive
Plan, but are related to city development issues.
(1992 Code, § 260:25)
§ 32.071 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS; DUTIES.
   A Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby established in compliance with state
municipal planning legislation and the city’s Zoning Ordinance. The Planning
Commission of the city shall sit as the Zoning Board of Appeals, and may adopt
by-laws and rules of procedure and operation consistent with city ordinance and
applicable state planning legislation; except that, such by-laws must provide
for a minimum of one regularly scheduled meeting a month. Such by-laws shall be
submitted to the City Council for approval.
(1992 Code, § 260:30) (Ord. 1065, passed 8-18-1992)
FIRE DEPARTMENT CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
§ 32.085 ESTABLISHMENT AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby continued as heretofore established a Civil Service Board
for the Fire Department consisting of three members.
(1992 Code, § 223:00) (Ord. 1494, passed 4-16-2013)
§ 32.086 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The terms of the office shall be, for each member, three years.
Commissioners originally appointed shall have their terms extended to April 30
in the respective year of expiry. On 4-30-1987, two original members’ terms
shall expire and the Mayor shall appoint one person to the Commission. On 4-30-
1988, two original members’ terms shall expire and the Mayor shall appoint one
person to the Commission. On 4-30-1989, two original members’ terms shall
expire and the Mayor shall appoint one person to the Commission.
   (B)   No appointment to the Commission shall be effective until approved by
the City Council by majority vote. No member shall be allowed more than three
terms of service.
(1992 Code, § 223:05) (Ord. 1494, passed 4-16-2013)
§ 32.087 DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   The Commissioners shall have and exercise all the duties and
responsibilities set forth in Minn. Stat. Ch. 420, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(1992 Code, § 223:10) (Ord. 1494, passed 4-16-2013)
LIBRARY BOARD
§ 32.100 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Library Board of the city, comprised of five members, is hereby
continued as heretofore established. All terms shall be three-year terms. All
terms shall commence May 1. All members of the Board shall be residents of the
city. The removal of any member from one ward to another ward in the city shall
not disqualify such member. Appointments to the Board shall be in accordance
with the City Charter.
(1992 Code, § 245:00)
§ 32.101 OFFICERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   At the first meeting to be held in May of each year, the Board shall
elect from its members a President, Vice-President and a Secretary to serve for
a term of one year and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(1992 Code, § 245:05)
   (B)   (1)   The President and, in his or her absence, the Vice-President
shall preside at all meetings and exercise the functions usually devolving upon
the presiding officer of similar bodies.
      (2)   The Secretary shall keep a record of all business transactions of
the meetings of the Board and of such other matters as the Board may direct.
(1992 Code, § 245:10)
§ 32.102 BOARD; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the power to establish such committees thereof as it
may see fit and shall have the charge and oversight and maintenance of all
public libraries of the city and shall have authority to purchase or otherwise
procure or acquire all things necessary for the erection, equipment and
furnishing of a public library facility in the city, not to exceed the funds
then available for that purpose. The Board is empowered to accept and receive
all donations and contributions for public library purposes that may be made to
the city, and all earnings of such contributions thereto and taxes for such
purposes shall be paid into the hands of the City Clerk-Treasurer. The Library
Board is empowered to do all things necessary for the efficient operation and
management of a public library facility in the city to the extent that may be
permitted by statute; provided, however, that, anything herein to the contrary
notwithstanding, the Library Board shall not be authorized to levy or impose
taxes. The Board shall report annually to the Council the activities of the
preceding year and shall make such other reports as the Council may require.
(1992 Code, § 245:15)
CHAPTER 33: CITY POLICIES
Section
Employment Background Checks
   
33.01   Applicants for city employment
   
33.02   License background checks
   
33.03   Effective date
Unclaimed Property; Disposition
   
33.15   Purpose
   
33.16   Definition
   
33.17   Unclaimed property; custody
   
33.18   Storage
   
33.19   Claim by owner
   
33.20   Sale at public auction; notice
   
33.21   Electronic auction authorized
   
33.22   Proceeds from public auction
   
33.23   Owner of unclaimed property
   
33.24   Unsold property
   
33.25   Effective date
Fraud, Concealment or Without Intent to Pay; Taking City Property
   
33.40   Electricity
   
33.41   Water and other property
   
33.42   Notice of use of water
   
33.43   Fraud, city water
   
33.44   Use of facilities and participation in programs
   
33.45   Fees and charges posted
Cross-reference:
   Fees and Charges, see
Ch. 35
   Motor Vehicle Excise Tax; Sales and Use Tax, see §§
34.01 through
34.12
   Officials and Employees; Organizations, see
Ch. 32
EMPLOYMENT BACKGROUND CHECKS
§ 33.01 APPLICANTS FOR CITY EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to the state’s computerized
criminal history information for specified non-criminal purposes of employment
background checks for the positions described in division (B) below.
   (B)   Criminal history employment background investigations. The City Police
Department is hereby required, as the exclusive entity within the city, to do a
criminal history background investigation on the applicants for the following
positions within the city, unless the city’s hiring authority concludes that a
background investigation is not needed: employment positions. (All regular
part-time or full-time employees of the city and all regular or part-time city
employees or other city staff; and all city volunteers who work with children
or vulnerable adults.)
   (C)   Data. In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen employment applicants, the Police Department is authorized to
access data maintained in the State Bureau of Criminal Apprehension’s
computerized criminal history information system in accordance with BCA policy.
Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the Police
Department under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or
his or her designee. A summary of the results of the computerized criminal
history data may be released by the Police Department to the hiring authority,
including the City Council, the City Administrator or other city staff involved
in the hiring process.
   (D)   Authorization. Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant
must authorize the Police Department, by written consent, to undertake the
investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
Minn. Stat. Ch. 13, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the
collection, maintenance and use of the information. Except for the positions
set forth in Minn. Stat. § 364.09, as it may be amended from time to time, the
city will not reject an applicant for employment on the basis of the
applicant’s prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the
position of employment sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross
misdemeanor or misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the
applicant’s request on this basis, the city shall notify the applicant in
writing of the following:
      (1)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
      (2)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in Minn.
Stat. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment; and
      (4)   All competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered upon
reapplication.
(Ord. 1465, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 33.02 LICENSE BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to the state’s computerized
criminal history information for specified non-criminal purposes of licensing
background checks.
   (B)   Criminal history license background investigation. The City Police
Department is hereby required, as the exclusive entity within the city, to do a
criminal history background investigation on the applicants for all city
licenses for which background checks are required (e.g., pawnbrokers, transient
merchants, “on-sale” intoxicating liquor licenses and the like).
   (C)   Data. In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen license applicants, the Police Department is authorized to
access data maintained in the State Bureau of Criminal Apprehension’s
computerized criminal history information system in accordance with BCA policy.
Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the Police
Department under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or
his or her designee. A summary of the results of the computerized criminal
history data may be released by the Police Department to the licensing
authority, including the City Council, the City Administrator or other city
staff involved in the license approval process.
   (D)   Authorization. Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant
must authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake the
investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
Minn. Stat. Ch. 13, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the
collection, maintenance and use of the information. Except for the positions
set forth in Minn. Stat.§ 364.09, as it may be amended from time to time, the
city will not reject an applicant for a license on the basis of the applicant’s
prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the license sought and
the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor with a jail
sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request on this basis, the city
shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
      (1)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
      (2)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in Minn.
Stat. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license; and
      (4)   All competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered upon
reapplication.
(Ord. 1465, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 33.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and publication.
(Ord. 1465, passed 1-4-2011)
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; DISPOSITION
§ 33.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the procedure to dispose of
unclaimed property pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 471.195, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(1992 Code, § 120:00) (Ord. 1455, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 33.16 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any personal property stolen and recovered,
abandoned, confiscated, found or otherwise lawfully acquired by the city,
including, but not limited to, bicycles, or parts thereof or machinery or parts
thereof, and money.
(1992 Code, § 120:05) (Ord. 1455, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 33.17 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; CUSTODY.
   The City Administrator or his or her designee shall have custody of property
lawfully coming into the possession of the city in the course of municipal
operations which remains unclaimed by the owner.
(1992 Code, § 120:10) (Ord. 1455, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 33.18 STORAGE.
   The City Administrator or his or her designee will arrange for storage of
the unclaimed property. If city facilities are unavailable or inadequate, the
city may arrange for storage at a privately-owned facility.
(1992 Code, § 120:15) (Ord. 1455, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 33.19 CLAIM BY OWNER.
   The owner may claim the unclaimed property by presenting satisfactory proof
of ownership to the City Administrator or his or her designee and by paying the
city any storage or maintenance costs incurred. A receipt for the unclaimed
property must be obtained upon release to the owner.
(1992 Code, § 120:20) (Ord. 1455, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 33.20 SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION; NOTICE.
   (A)   After such unclaimed property, exclusive of motor vehicles, has been
in the possession of the city for a period of at least 60 days, the city may
sell such property to the highest bidder at public auction or sale.
(1992 Code, § 120:05)
   (B)   The city shall, before the holding of a public auction or sale,
publish notice of the auction or sale in the legal newspaper at least ten days
prior to the sale. The notice shall be published at least once. The notice
shall describe generally the property to be auctioned, the date of the auction
and the location thereof.
(1992 Code, § 120:30)
(Ord. 1455, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 33.21 ELECTRONIC AUCTION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The city may sell unclaimed property pursuant to this section via the
use of an electronic auction that is available to the general public, and as
approved by the City Administrator or his or her designee.
   (B)   If the city utilizes an electronic auction the notice requirements are
deemed satisfied by publishing a general description of the property to be
auctioned and the web address of the auction site in the legal newspaper.
   (C)   In addition, the city shall provide notice of the electronic auction
service in other means generally available to the public, such as the city’s
website and newsletter.
(1992 Code, § 120:35) (Ord. 1455, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 33.22 PROCEEDS FROM PUBLIC AUCTION.
   The proceeds derived from any such public auction shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city.
(1992 Code, § 120:40) (Ord. 1455, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 33.23 OWNER OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   The owner of unclaimed property sold at public auction or sale shall be paid
the sale price thereof from the General Fund if such owner makes application in
writing and shows satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the
sale, less the cost of storage and other costs incurred in connection with the
sale. Such application shall be made to the City Administrator or his or her
designee.
(1992 Code, § 120:45) (Ord. 1455, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 33.24 UNSOLD PROPERTY.
   Any unsold property remaining after public auction may be sold or disposed
of pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 471.195, as it may be amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 120:50) (Ord. 1455, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 33.25 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and publication.
(Ord. 1455, passed 4-6-2010)
FRAUD, CONCEALMENT OR WITHOUT INTENT TO PAY; TAKING CITY PROPERTY
§ 33.40 ELECTRICITY.
   No person shall connect any wire to any meter, pipe, conduit, line or other
apparatus, wire or fixture, in any house, building or structure, for the
purpose of taking, using or diverting any electric current from city without
such electric current first passing through a meter duly located or installed
in such house, building or structure, or in an attempt to use, secure or waste
such electric current without intending to pay for same; no person shall take,
receive or attempt to take, receive or appropriate any electric current from
the city without intending to pay for same; no person shall make any change in
any meter, fixture, appliance, mechanism, apparatus or instrument for the
purpose of securing from the city any gas or water without the knowledge of
said city, or without the same being duly registered, measured or indicated or
without permission from said city, and no person shall take or receive from the
city any gas or water with intent to secure same without payment therefor to
said city.
(1992 Code, § 105:00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.41 WATER AND OTHER PROPERTY.
   No person shall use, receive, accept or obtain from the city any city water
or any other property with an intent not to pay for the same at the price duly
fixed and established therefore, if any price be so fixed and established and,
if no price be fixed and established, then at the reasonable worth and value of
the same.
(1992 Code, § 105:05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.42 NOTICE OF USE OF WATER.
   No person shall use or receive any city water from the city without stating
and disclosing to said city, or to the person authorized by said city to
collect monies for the use of such water, the manner in which the same is used
and the different uses made of the same, fully and explicitly and with
sufficient detail so that the said city may have full notice and knowledge of
such use, to the end that said city shall and will be able to definitely and
correctly fix a price and value for the same at its usual rates and charges, or
at its true value if no such rates and charges be fixed and established.
(1992 Code, § 105:10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.43 FRAUD, CITY WATER.
   Each and every person who shall use or obtain from said city any city water
by any false or fraudulent statement or by any fraudulent scheme or device, for
the purpose of evading payment of the same or for the purpose of paying for the
same at a lower rate than that fixed and established by said city for such use,
shall be guilty of a penal offense.
(1992 Code, § 105:15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.44 USE OF FACILITIES AND PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAMS.
   No person shall use the recreation facilities or participate in the programs
of recreation of the city, including softball, golf, tennis, football,
basketball, hockey, broomball or any other program conducted under the
authority and direction of the Park and Recreation Department of the city
without first paying the fee or charge established for the use of such
facilities or for participation in such programs.
(1992 Code, § 105:20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.45 FEES AND CHARGES POSTED.
   The Director of Parks and Recreation shall cause a schedule of fees and
charges to be posted at, in or near the facilities for which a user charge is
made and shall have available to the general public a schedule of fees for
programs of recreation.
(1992 Code, § 105:25)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
Motor Vehicle Excise Tax; Sales and Use Tax
   
34.01   Authority
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Sales and use tax
   
34.04   Separate statement; collection from purchaser; advertising no tax;
minimum uniform tax collection methods
   
34.05   Exemption certificates
   
34.06   Presumption of purpose of sale
   
34.07   Collection of sales and use tax at time of sale
   
34.08   Agent of retailer
   
34.09   Effective date; transitional sales
   
34.10   Collection and enforcement
   
34.11   Tax clearance; issuance of licenses
   
34.12   Effective date
Lodging Tax
   
34.25   Tax imposed
   
34.26   Collection and remittance
   
34.27   Exceptions and exemptions
   
34.28   Authorization
   
34.29   Penalty
   
34.30   Tax funding tourism
MOTOR VEHICLE EXCISE TAX; SALES AND USE TAX
§ 34.01 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The state legislature has, by Laws of Minnesota 2006, Ch. 259, Art. 3,
§ 12 (the “Act”), codified at Minn. Stat. § 297A.99, authorized the city to
impose a 0.5% sales and use tax and an excise tax of up to $20 per motor
vehicle to assist in the financing of certain transportation projects, park and
trail projects, and West Hills complex, fire hall and library projects, all as
described in the Act, subject to approval by the voters. The city approved the
Act in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   At the special election held 11-7-2006, the voters approved the
imposition of a 0.5% sales and use tax for transportation projects in the
maximum amount of $4,450,000 (the “Transportation Projects”), and for West
Hills complex, fire hall and library improvements in the maximum amount of
$2,823,000 (the “West Hills Project”), all as described more fully in Res. 4-
06, approved 1-17-2006.
(1992 Code, § 436:00) (Ord. 1406, passed 1-7-2007)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The words, terms and phrases used in this subchapter shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in Minn. Stat. Ch. 297A, as it may be amended from time to
time, except where the context clearly indicates otherwise. In addition, for
the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Laws of Minnesota 2006, Ch. 259, Art. 3, § 12.
   CITY. The City of Owatonna.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Revenue for the state acting under the
authority of an agreement entered into between the city and the state pursuant
to the Act, or such other person or entity designated to administer and collect
the city tax.
   DEALER. A person as defined by Minn. Stat. §§ 168.011, Subd. 21, and 168.27,
Subd. 1(5), as they may be amended from time to time, and licensed by the
Commissioner of Public Safety pursuant to Minn. Stat. Ch. 168, as it may be
amended from time to time, and engaged in the city in the business of selling
motor vehicles at retail.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Finance of the city.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any of the following as otherwise defined by Minn. Stat. §
168.011, as it may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   A passenger vehicle;
      (2)   A bus or intercity bus;
      (3)   A truck;
      (4)   A truck-tractor;
      (5)   A station wagon;
      (6)   A van;
      (7)   A pickup truck; and
      (8)   Recreational equipment which is self-propelled.
   ORDINANCE. This subchapter in its present form and as subsequently codified
in the city code.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THE CITY (or any like term). Any
retailer having or maintaining within the city, directly or by a subsidiary or
an affiliate, an office, place of distribution, sales or sample room or place,
warehouse or other place of business, or having any representative, including
an affiliate, agent, salesperson, canvasser or solicitor operating in the city
under the authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, for any purpose,
including the repairing, selling delivering, installation or soliciting of
order of the retailer’s goods or services, or the leasing of tangible personal
property located in the city, whether the place of business or agent,
representative, affiliate, salesperson, canvasser or solicitor, is located in
the city permanently or temporarily, or whether or not the retailer or
subsidiary is authorized to do business within the city.
   SALES AND USE TAX. The sales and use tax imposed and collected pursuant to
this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 436:05) (Ord. 1406, passed 1-7-2007; Ord. 1410, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 34.03 SALES AND USE TAX.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, there is hereby imposed an
additional excise tax in the amount of 0.5% of the gross receipts from the
sales at retail, and the storage, use, distribution or consumption of goods or
services which are taxable, pursuant to Minn. Stat. Ch. 297A, as it may be
amended from time to time, and occur within the city. The imposition,
administration, collection and enforcement of this tax shall be governed by the
provisions of Minn. Stat. Ch. 297A, 270C and 289A, as they may be amended from
time to time.
(1992 Code, § 436:10) (Ord. 1406, passed 1-7-2007)
§ 34.04 SEPARATE STATEMENT; COLLECTION FROM PURCHASER; ADVERTISING NO TAX;
MINIMUM UNIFORM TAX COLLECTION METHODS.
   The city’s sales and use tax shall be stated and charged separately from the
sales price or charge for service insofar as practical, and should be a debt
from the purchaser to the seller recoverable at law in the same manner as other
debts. In computing the tax to be collected as a result of any transaction, any
amount of tax less than one-half of one cent may be disregarded and amounts of
tax one-half cent or more may be considered an additional cent. If the sales
price of any sale at retail is $0.99 or less, no tax shall be collected.
(1992 Code, § 436:20) (Ord. 1406, passed 1-7-2007)
§ 34.05 EXEMPTION CERTIFICATES.
   A fully completed exemption certificate taken from a purchaser to the effect
that the property purchased is for resale or that the sale is otherwise exempt
from the application of the tax imposed by this subchapter will conclusively
relieve the retailer from collecting and remitting the tax. A person who has
obtained from the Commissioner an exemption certificate pursuant to the Minn.
Stat. Ch. 297A, as it may be amended from time to time, may use such exemption
certificate for the purposes of the sales tax imposed by the city.
(1992 Code, § 436:25) (Ord. 1406, passed 1-7-2007)
§ 34.06 PRESUMPTION OF PURPOSE OF SALE.
   For the purpose of the proper administration and enforcement of §
34.03 of this chapter, it shall be presumed that all retail sales for delivery
in the city are for storage, use or other consumption in the city until the
contrary is established.
(1992 Code, § 436:30) (Ord. 1406, passed 1-7-2007)
§ 34.07 COLLECTION OF SALES AND USE TAX AT TIME OF SALE.
   (A)   Any retailer making deliveries within the city, any retailer
maintaining a place of business in the city, or any other retailer otherwise
doing business within the city, upon making sales or any items described in §
34.03 of this chapter which are not exempted from the sales tax imposed under
that section and which are to be delivered or caused to be delivered within the
city to the purchaser, shall at the time of making such sales and collect the
sales and use tax from the purchaser. The tax collected by such retailer shall
be remitted to the Commissioner on behalf of the city.
   (B)   Any retailer required to collect sales and use tax and remit such tax
to the Commissioner pursuant to this section shall register with the
Commissioner and provide such other information as the Commissioner may
require.
(1992 Code, § 436:35) (Ord. 1406, passed 1-7-2007)
§ 34.08 AGENT OF RETAILER.
   When, in the opinion of the Commissioner, it is necessary for the efficient
administration of the tax, the Commissioner may regard any salesperson,
representative, trucker, peddler or canvasser as the agent of the dealer,
distributor, supervisor, employer or other person under whom such salesperson,
representative, trucker, peddler or canvasser operated or from whom the
tangible property is being sold is obtained, and may regard the dealer,
distributor, supervisor, employer or other person as a retailer for the
purposes of this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 436:40) (Ord. 1406, passed 1-7-2007)
§ 34.09 EFFECTIVE DATE; TRANSITIONAL SALES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the city’s sales and use tax
authorized by this subchapter shall apply to sales made on or after 4-1-2007
and shall be in addition to all other taxes now in effect.
   (B)   The city’s sales and use tax shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   The gross receipts from the purchase or lease of tangible personal
property made under an enforceable contract entered into before 4-1-2007;
provided that, delivery or possession of items is taken on or before 6-30-2007;
      (2)   The gross receipts from the purchase of taxable services made under
an enforceable contract entered into before 4-1-2007 and for which payment was
made before 4-1-2007; provided that, the services were provided before 6-30-
2007;
      (3)   The gross receipts from the purchase of construction materials used
to complete a lump sum or fixed price construction contract that was signed and
enforceable before 4-1-2007 and that does not provide for an allocation of
future taxes; provided that, the construction materials are used exclusively in
performing the contract and the materials are delivered before 10-31-2007; or
      (4)   The gross receipts from the purchase of utility services if the
utility bill includes charges for services furnished before 4-1-2007; however,
the city’s sales and use tax shall apply to all utility bills for periods
beginning 4-1-2007.
(1992 Code, § 436:45) (Ord. 1406, passed 1-7-2007)
§ 34.10 COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The city’s sales and use tax imposed by the city pursuant to this subchapter
shall be subject to the same interests, penalties and other rules as are
applicable to the state general sales tax imposed by Minn. Stat. Ch. 289A and
297A, as they may be amended from time to time. The city’s sales and use tax
imposed by the city pursuant to this subchapter may be collected by the state
on behalf of the city as provided by an appropriate agreement with the State
Commissioner of Revenue.
(1992 Code, § 436:50) (Ord. 1406, passed 1-7-2007)
§ 34.11 TAX CLEARANCE; ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The city may not issue or renew a license for the conduct of trade or
business in the city if the Commissioner notifies the city that the applicant
for such license owes delinquent city sales and use taxes, as provided in this
subchapter, or penalties or interest due on such taxes.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICANT. An individual if the license is issued to or in the name of an
individual or the corporation, partnership or other entity if the license is
issued to or in the name of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
      CITY SALES AND USE TAXES. Include sales and use tax as provided in this
subchapter. Penalties and interest are penalties and interest due on taxes
included in this definition.
      DELINQUENT TAXES. Do not include a tax liability if:
         (a)   In administrative or court action which contests the amount of
validity or the liability has been filed or served;
         (b)   The appeal period to contest tax liability has not expired; or
         (c)   The applicant has entered into a payment agreement and is
current with the payments.
   (C)   A copy of the notice of delinquent taxes given to the city shall also
be sent to the applicant taxpayer. In the case of renewal of a license, if the
applicant requests a hearing in writing, within 30 days of the receipt of the
notice of delinquent taxes, then a contested case hearing shall be held by the
Commissioner under the same procedures as provided in Minn. Stat. § 270C.72, as
it may be amended from time to time, for the state sales and use tax imposed
under Minn. Stat. Ch. 297A, as it may be amended from time to time; provided
that, if a hearing must be held on the state sales and use tax, hearings may be
combined.
(1992 Code, § 436:55) (Ord. 1406, passed 1-7-2007)
§ 34.12 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and publication.
(Ord. 1406, passed 1-7-2007)
LODGING TAX
§ 34.25 TAX IMPOSED.
   The city herewith imposes a tax of 3% on the gross receipts from the
furnishing for consideration of lodging at a motel, hotel, rooming house,
tourist court or other use of space by a transient within the city other than
the renting or leasing of such space for a continuous period of 30 days or
more. The tax authorized herewith shall be the obligation of the operator of
any such motel, hotel, rooming house, tourist court or other space used by a
transient and shall constitute a debt owed to the city by the operator
extinguishable only by payment to the city.
(1992 Code, § 410:00)
§ 34.26 COLLECTION AND REMITTANCE.
   The tax shall be collected by such operator at the time the payment for such
lodging is made and shall be remitted to the city within 20 days after the end
of the month within which such tax is collected.
(1992 Code, § 410:05)
§ 34.27 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exceptions. No tax shall be imposed on rent for lodging paid by any
officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason of express
provisions of federal law or international treaty.
   (B)   Exemptions. An exemption shall be granted to any person as to whom or
whose occupancy it is beyond the power of the city to tax. No exemption shall
be granted except upon a claim therefor made at the time the rent is collected
and such a claim shall be made in writing and under penalty of perjury. All
such claims shall be forwarded to the city when the returns and collections are
submitted as required by this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 410:10)
§ 34.28 AUTHORIZATION.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer is herewith authorized to establish administrative
regulations to effect the collection of such tax and any interest and penalties
thereon.
(1992 Code, § 410:15)
§ 34.29 PENALTY.
   Any operator failing to remit to the city by the due date shall be required
to pay a penalty of 5% of the tax amount remaining unpaid and, thereafter, an
additional penalty of 2% per calendar month, or part thereof, if the tax is not
paid within 30 days after the due date. Failure to collect and remit the tax
shall be a misdemeanor and the City Attorney is authorized to commence such
legal action as is necessary to collect all taxes, interest and penalties due
hereunder and prosecute violators.
(1992 Code, § 410:20)
§ 34.30 TAX FUNDING TOURISM.
   No less than 95% of the gross proceeds derived from the tax imposed by this
subchapter shall be used by the city to fund a Convention and Tourism Bureau
for the purposes of marketing and promoting the city as a tourist and
convention center, with the balance of the gross proceeds to be used to provide
reimbursement for administrative costs of collection and administration of the
tax by the city.
(1992 Code, § 410:25)
CHAPTER 35: FEES AND CHARGES
Section
   
35.01   Fees, charges and rates authorized and defined
   
35.02   Priority of application
   
35.03   Collection, late payment charge and special assessment
   
35.04   Late payment of fees for renewals of licenses
   
35.05   Assessment of delinquent charges for utility services
   
Appendix A: Fee Schedule
§ 35.01 FEES, CHARGES AND RATES AUTHORIZED AND DEFINED.
   The fees, charges and rates for the purposes set forth in this chapter for
licenses, permits and municipal services shall be in the amount set forth in
this chapter. Reference to the amounts set forth herein in other portions of
this code or in other ordinances may be made in such terms as “required fee”,
“established fee”, “required license fee”, “license fee” and “license fee in
the required amount”, without specific reference to this chapter, in which
event the amounts herein set forth shall be applicable.
(1992 Code, § 500:00)
§ 35.02 PRIORITY OF APPLICATION.
   If fees, charges and rates are set forth specifically in parts of this code
other than this chapter or in other ordinances which are now in effect, but
have not been set forth in this chapter, in that event, the fees, charges and
rates thereby specifically set forth shall be effective for all purposes. In
the event that such amounts shall appear in other places in this code or in
other ordinances or codes, but shall appear in this chapter, the amounts
appearing in this chapter shall supersede the others.
(1992 Code, § 500:05)
§ 35.03 COLLECTION, LATE PAYMENT CHARGE AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   Payment in accordance with billings shall be made not later than the billing
date established for the account. In addition to the charges provided, there
shall be a late charge as set by the Council and as may be set from time to
time for payments made after the fifteenth day after the billing date. When a
charge is more than 15 days past due it shall be considered delinquent. It
shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to endeavor to promptly collect
delinquent accounts. All delinquent accounts shall be certified to the Clerk-
Treasurer who shall prepare an assessment roll each year providing for
assessment of the delinquent amounts, plus interest at the rate of 8% per annum
from the date they become delinquent, against the respective properties served.
This assessment roll shall be delivered to the Council for adoption on or
before October 10 of each year. Such action may be optional or subsequent to
taking legal action to collect delinquent accounts.
(1992 Code, § 500:10)
§ 35.04 LATE PAYMENT OF FEES FOR RENEWALS OF LICENSES.
   Fees for renewal of licenses will be doubled if received late. Fees are
deemed to be late if not received by noon of the Thursday preceding the City
Council meeting which considers the annual renewals, if the City Clerk-
Treasurer has sent notice of the date of Council consideration at least 30 days
before the scheduled date for consideration. A penalty collected under this
section shall not exceed $100.
(1992 Code, § 500:15)
§ 35.05 ASSESSMENT OF DELINQUENT CHARGES FOR UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   Purpose. The city’s public utilities provides electricity, gas service
and water service to customers for premises within its service territory. The
city’s public utilities also bills for sewer service on behalf of the city.
Each year there are customers who fail to timely pay the bills for the services
provided. When collection efforts are unsuccessful, the amounts not collected
must be borne by other customers and results in higher rates than would be in
force if all customers paid their utility bills in a timely manner. To minimize
uncollectable accounts for public utility services and to reduce the amount
borne by paying customers the City Council adopts this chapter providing that
the unpaid charges of delinquent service accounts may be assessed against the
property served.
   (B)   Authority. Section
9.9 of the amended Charter of the city provides that the Public Utilities
Commission may sue or make unpaid charges a lien against the property served in
the name of the city for any money due to it for services or commodities. Minn.
Stat. § 444.075, Subd. 3e, as it may be amended from time to time, enables
municipalities to certify past due sewer and water bills for collection with
property taxes. In 1989, Minn. Stat. § 366.012, as it may be amended from time
to time, was passed giving towns the authority to certify unpaid service
charges for collection with taxes and, subsequently in 1973, Minn. Stat. §
415.01, as it may be amended from time to time, was passed giving
municipalities all the powers afforded to towns which, therefore, allows the
city to certify delinquent electric and gas charges to the County Auditor to be
collected with property taxes.
   (C)   Certification of unpaid charges. From time to time, the Public Utility
Department shall certify to the City Clerk-Treasurer a list of unpaid accounts
showing the names and addresses of all unpaid electrical utility accounts. The
Council shall certify the unpaid accounts against the property receiving
electrical, gas and water and sewer service from the Public Utility Department
to the County Auditor for collection with taxes under the procedure found in
Minn. Stat. §§ 429.011 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time. The
delinquent sum together with interest shall be credited proportionately to the
Electric, Gas or Water or Sewer Fund.
   (D)   Limitation. Notwithstanding the authority contained in the preceding
section, pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 325E.025, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from
time to time, the Public Utility Department shall not place a lien on a
landlord or owner’s property for a tenant’s outstanding electrical bill unless
the owner or a property manager, acting as the owner’s agent, contracted for
the utility service.
   (E)   Application. The City Council declares that this chapter is procedural
and may be applied retroactively against all properties upon which there exist
unpaid charges for utilities for which a suit or lien may be served under §
9.9 of the amended Charter of the city.
(1992 Code, § 500:20) (Ord. 1486, passed 10-16-2012; Ord. 1500, passed 5-21-
2013)
APPENDIX A: FEE SCHEDULE
   (A)   Business licenses and permits. The fees, charges and rates for
business licenses and permits, the duration or term thereof, and the conditions
applied thereto, shall be as set forth in this division (A).
(1992 Code, § 510:00)
      (1)   December 31 expiration. The following licenses and permits shall
expire on December 31 of each year:
Code Section Type of License Conditions and Terms Amount
Code Section Type of License                   Conditions and  Amount
                                               Terms
                                               Per year        $1,000
                                               Per month or
                                               fraction of a
                                               month for
112.20 —                                     licenses issued $83.33
112.27,      Adult establishments              after January 1
112.99                                         for period
                                               ending December
                                               31
                                               Initial one     $100 per
                                               time            applicant
                                               investigate fee
153.47       Attention getting device special  Each            $25
             permit                            installation
                                               Per year
             Fireworks dealer, exclusive       (effective 5-4- $350
111.04                                         2004)
             Other retail seller’s fireworks Per year
             license                           (effective 5-4- $100
                                               2004)
                                                               $500 annually,
118.038      Pawnbroker annual license fee     Per year        pro-rate initial
                                                               year
                                                               $100 minimum;
                                                               $100 for all
                                                               investigations
                                                               conducted within
                                               Initial         the state, or
118.038      Pawnbroker investigate fee        application and the actual cost,
                                               transfers       not to exceed
                                                               $10,000, if the
                                                               investigation is
                                                               required outside
                                                               the state
118.038      Pawnbroker, electronic billing    Per transaction $1.50
             transaction fee
118.038      Pawnbroker, manual billable       Per transaction $2.50
             transaction fee
                                               Per year or
                                               fraction
117.20 and   Plumbers and/or gas installers    thereof         $10
117.40                                         (expires end of
                                               February each
                                               year)
                                               Per vehicle per
117.03       Refuse and garbage collector      year or         $75
                                               fraction
                                               thereof
                                               Each installation:
                                               1 - 32 sq. ft.  $25
             Sign installation permit          33 - 100 sq.    $50
                                               ft.
                                               Over 100 sq.    $75
                                               ft.
                                               Per vehicle per
                                               year or
                                               fraction        $75
                                               thereof
119.03       Taxi service                      (effective 1-1-
                                               1992)
                                               Transfer of
                                               license to      $25
                                               other vehicle
                                               Per year        $150
                                               Per month or
                                               fraction of a
                                               month for
                                               licenses first  $12.50
             Tobacco or tobacco products,      issued after
             retail                            January 1 for
114.03                                         period ending
                                               December 31
                                               Minimum fee
                                               (effective 1-1- $50
                                               2004)
             Short term tobacco (at a
             temporary location) (effective 1-                $50
             1-2004)
 
(1992 Code, § 510:05)
      (2)   March 31 expirations. The following licenses shall expire on March
31 of each year:
 
Code Section Type of License  Conditions and Terms   Amount
                                                     $100
                                                     $50 for each additional
118.091      Ice cream vendor Per year for 1 vehicle vehicle
                                                     $50/add vehicle (effective
                                                     9-15-2009)
117.63       Tree trimmer     Per year               $50
 
(1992 Code, § 510:10)
      (3)   June 30 expirations. The following licenses shall expire on June 30
of each year:
Code Section Type of License Conditions and Terms Amount
Code    Type of License                    Conditions   Amount
Section                                    and Terms
                                           Per year
113.096 Bottle clubs                       (effective   $300
                                           1-1-1992)
                                                        $3,000 (one time
                                           Per year     payment with
113.054 Intoxicating liquor “on-sale”  (effective   application); $250 per
                                           1-1-2004)    month prorated initial
                                                        application, plus $150
                                                        administrative fee
113.029 Investigation fee wine license     Initial      $100
                                           application
        Intoxicating liquor “off-sale” Per year     $200
                                                        $100 minimum; $100 for
                                                        all investigations
                                           Initial      conducted within the
113.075 Investigation fee, “off-sale”  application  state, or the actual
        liquor                             and          cost, not to exceed
                                           transfers    $10,000, if the
                                                        investigation is
                                                        required outside the
                                                        state
                                                        Member-ship Annual
                                                        0 - 200     $300
                                                        201 - 500   $500
                                                        501 - 1,000 $650
        Intoxicating liquor, “on-sale” Per year     1,001 -     $800
        club                                            2,000
113.117                                                 2,001 -     $1,000
                                                        4,000
                                                        4,001 &     $2,000
                                                        over
                                           Per year
        Sunday sales, club “on-sale”   (effective   $200
                                           1-1-1992)
                                           Per year, on
                                           or before    $250 per organization;
120.09  Gambling annual local              June 30 per  maximum of 3 premises
        investigation fee                  organization permits
                                           (effective
                                           7-1- 2018)
                                           Per year
        3.2% malt liquor, “off-sale”   (effective   $100
                                           1-1-1992)
                                           Per year
113.004 3.2% malt liquor, “on-sale”    (effective   $100
                                           1-1-1992)
        3.2% malt liquor - short term -    10 days      $50
        “on-sale”
        Wine license                       Per year     $150
                                           Per year
        Special Sunday “on-sale”       (effective   $200
                                           1-1-1992)
        “On-sale” dance permit         Per year     $25
                                                        $100 minimum; $100.00
                                                        for all investigations
113.054                                    Initial      conducted within the
                                           application  state, or the actual
        Investigation fee “on-sale” liqand          cost, not to exceed
                                           transfers    $10,000, if the
                                                        investigation is
                                                        required outside the
                                                        state
113.052 Temporary intoxicating liquor “onPer event    $50
        sale”
        Brew pub on-sale license           Yearly       $3001
        Brew pub Sunday on-sale license    Yearly       $2002
        Brew pub off-sale license          Yearly       $2503
        Brew pub Sunday off-sale           Yearly       $2004
113.065 Brewer taproom on-sale license     Yearly       $3005
        Brewer taproom Sunday on-sale      Yearly       $200
        Small brewer off-sale license      Yearly       $250
        Small brewer Sunday off-sale       Yearly       Included under small
                                                        brewer off-sale license
113.065 Brewer temporary on-sale license   Yearly       $100
        Initial application and transfers              $100 minimum6
1   Except where applicant is a holder of an on-sale liquor license.
2   Except where applicant is a holder of a special Sunday on-sale liquor
license.
3   Except where applicant is a holder of an on-sale liquor license.
4   Except where applicant is a holder of a special Sunday on-sale liquor
license.
5   Brewer Taproom Licensee may not hold on-sale liquor license.
6   $100 for all investigations conducted within the state, or the actual cost,
not to exceed $10,000, if the investigation is required outside the state.
(1992 Code, § 510:15)
      (4)   No expiration date fixed. The following licenses or permits shall
expire in accordance with the term granted:
Code Section Type of License Conditions and Terms Amount
Code Section   Type of License         Conditions    Amount
                                       and Terms
                                       Per day or
118.004        Advertising sound       fraction      $50
                                       thereof
                                       Effective for
                                       the period
                                       set forth in
                                       the license,
               Automobile race,        not to exceed
               tractor pull,           1 year.
116.27,        demolition derby or any Application
116.28,        other activity of a     must be       $100
116.31,        like nature at the      accompanied
116.33         Steele County           by a calendar
               Fairgrounds             of events
                                       planned for
                                       the entire
                                       year
                                       (effective 6-
                                       21-2005)
                                       With
                                       application
                                       for license,
                                       at least 1
                                       week prior to
                                       the
                                       commencement
                                       of the event,
               Automobile race,        to be
               tractor pull,           forfeited at
               demolition derby or any the rate of
116.30         other activity of a     $500 for each $500
               like nature at the      one-half hour
               Steele County           or portion
               Fairgrounds, deposit    thereof that
                                       any event
                                       commences
                                       after 10:30
                                       p.m. or
                                       continues
                                       after 11:00
                                       p.m.
                                       (effective 6-
                                       21-2005)
95.06(A)(3)    Noise control; private                $150
               exception application
                                       Any property
                                       owner
                                       securing a
                                       building
                                       permit for
                                       construction
                                       of a new
97.03          Planting trees in       building      $120 for large variety;
               boulevards, permit      shall be      $100 small variety
                                       assessed a
                                       surcharge for
                                       each
                                       available
                                       planting
                                       space within
                                       the boulevard
                                       Issued for
                                       one or more
                                       public dances
116.01         Public dance            or for a      $25
                                       period of
                                       time not
                                       exceeding one
                                       year
                                                     $100 minimum; $100 for all
                                                     investigations conducted
               Public dance,           Initial       within the state, or the
116.04         investigation fee       applications  actual cost, not to exceed
                                                     $10,000, if the
                                                     investigation is required
                                                     outside the state
                                       Registration
                                       certificates
                                       expire 2
115.14         Rental unit dwelling    years after   See below
               license; inspection fee date of
                                       issuance
                                       (effective 6-
                                       3-2003)
               1 Unit  2 -4 units    5 - 10 Units  11 - 25 Units 36+ Units
License fee    $57.75    $74.25        $99           $175.50       $390
License and    $77.75    $94.25        $119          $195.50       $410
inspection fee
                                       Investigation
               Solicitors and peddlers fee           $100
                                       (effective
118.073                                11-18-2008)
               Transient merchants and Investigation
               peddlers (effective 11- fee           $100
               18-2008)
 
(1992 Code, § 510:20)
       (5)   Fee for false fire alarms. The fee to be charged any fire alarm
user who has more than two false alarms at the same premises in any calendar
year, as provided in §
92.04 of this code of ordinances, shall be $150 for each such false alarm. The
fee shall increase by $100 for each additional false call within the calendar
year; provided that, the maximum fee shall not exceed $350.
(1992 Code, § 510:25)
   (B)   Building permit fees.
      (1)   Building permit fees generally.
         (a)   A fee for each building permit shall be paid as set forth in the
table in division (B)(1)(c)1. below.
         (b)   The determination of value or valuation under any of the
provisions of this code shall be made by the Building Official. The valuation
to be used in computing the permit and plan-check fees shall be the total value
of all construction work for which the permit is issued, as well as all finish
work, painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning,
elevators, fire extinguishing systems and any other permanent work or permanent
equipment.
(1992 Code, § 520:00)
         (c)   1.   The following shall be the schedule of fees for building
permits in the city: (Please note: the effective date of this division (B)(1)
(c) is 4-3-2006.)
Total Value Fee
Total Value            Fee
$1 to $500             $16.05
$501 to $2,000         $16.05 first $500, plus $2.14 each additional $100 or
                       fraction thereof, to and including $2,000
$2,001 to $25,000      $48.15 first $2,000, plus $9.63 each additional $1,000
                       or fraction thereof, to and including $25,000
$25,001 to $50,000     $269.64 first $25,000, plus $6.96 each additional $1,000
                       or fraction thereof, to and including $50,000
$50,001 to $100,000    $443.64 first $50,000, plus $4.82 each additional $1,000
                       or fraction thereof, to and including $100,000
$100,001 to $500,000   $684.64 first $100,000, plus $3.75 each additional
                       $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including $500,000
$500,001 to $1,000,000 $2,184.64 first $500,000, plus $3.21 each additional
                       $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including $1,000,000
$1,000,001 and up      $3,789.64 first $1,000,000, plus $2.14 each additional
                       $1,000 or fraction thereof
 
            2.   Other inspections and fees:
 
Additional
plan reviews
required by
changes,     $45 per hour (minimum charge - 1/2 hour)
additions or
revisions to
approved
plans
Inspection
for which no
fee is       $45 per hour (minimum charge - 1 hour)
specifically
indicated
Inspections
outside of
normal       $45 per hour (minimum charge - 2 hours)
business
hours
Mechanical   Established based upon the installation valuation and the fee schedule in
and plumbing division (B)(1)(c)1. above, with reference to Minn. Stat. § 16B.665, as it may
permit fees  be amended from time to time
Plan review  65% of the permit fees as established in division (B)(1)(c)1. above
fees
Reinspection
fee assessed
under
provisions
of the       $45 each
current
State
Building
Code
 
(1992 Code, § 520:05)
      (2)   Construction valuation table.
         (a)   For permit fee calculation, use the higher of the valuation as
calculated from this table or the total construction project valuation as
required to be submitted by the permit applicant. (Please note: the effective
date of this division (B)(2)(a) is 3-1-2003.)
Occupancy and Type of Construction Cost Per Square Foot
Occupancy and Type of Construction  Cost Per Square Foot
Apartments
   Type I or II F.R. 1           $92.19
   Type V-Masonry or Type III    $74.82
   Type V-Wood Frame             $69.14
   Type I-Basement Garage        $31.56
Auditoriums
   Type I or II F.R.             $88.41
   Type II-One Hour              $63.98
   Type II-N                     $60.54
   Type III-One Hour             $67.25
   Type III-N                    $63.81
   Type V-One Hour               $64.33
   Type V-N                      $60.03
Banks
   Type I or II F.R. 1           $124.87
   Type II-One Hour              $92.02
   Type II-N                     $89.01
   Type III-One Hour             $101.57
   Type III-N                    $97.87
   Type V-One Hour               $92.02
   Type V-N                      $88.15
Bowling alleys:
   Type II-One Hour              $43.00
   Type II-N                     $40.16
   Type III-One Hour             $46.78
   Type III-N                    $43.77
   Type V-One Hour               $31.56
Churches
   Type I or II F.R.             $83.68
   Type II-One Hour              $62.78
   Type II-N                     $59.68
   Type III-One Hour             $68.28
   Type III-N                    $65.27
   Type V-One Hour               $63.81
   Type V-N                      $60.03
Convalescent hospitals
   Type I or II F.R. 1           $117.39
   Type II-One Hour              $81.44
   Type III-One Hour             $83.51
   Type V-One Hour               $78.69
Dwellings
   Type V-Masonry                $81.70
   Type V-Wood Frame             $77.92
   Type V-N With Total Brick Vene$90.42
   Basements-Unfinished          $14.96
   Basements-Finished            $19.61
   Open Deck                     $16.59
   Covered Deck                  $34.10
   Screened Porch                $52.78
   3 Season Room                 $59.45
Fire stations
   Type I or II F.R.             $96.49
   Type II-One Hour              $63.47
   Type II-N                     $60.03
   Type III-One Hour             $69.49
   Type III-N                    $66.56
   Type V-One Hour               $65.19
   Type V-N                      $61.83
Homes for the elderly
   Type I or II F.R.             $87.46
   Type II-One Hour              $71.04
   Type II-N                     $67.94
   Type III-One Hour             $73.96
   Type III-N                    $70.95
   Type V-One Hour               $71.47
   Type V-N                      $68.97
Hospitals
   Type I or II F.R. 1           $137.60
   Type III-One Hour             $113.95
   Type V-One Hour               $108.70
Hotels and motels
   Type I or II F.R. 1           $85.14
   Type III-One Hour             $73.79
   Type III-N                    $70.35
   Type V-One Hour               $64.24
   Type V-N                      $62.95
Industrial plants
   Type I or II F.R.             $47.19
   Type II-One Hour              $33.37
   Type II-N                     $30.70
   Type III-One Hour             $36.81
   Type III-N                    $34.66
   Tilt-up Wall System           $25.28
   Type V-One Hour               $34.66
   Type V-N                      $31.73
Jails
   Type I or II F.R.             $134.16
   Type III-One Hour             $122.70
   Type V-One Hour               $92.02
Libraries
   Type I or II F.R.             $98.13
   Type II-One Hour              $71.81
   Type II-N                     $68.28
   Type III-One Hour             $75.85
   Type III-N                    $72.07
   Type V-One Hour               $71.29
   Type V-N                      $68.28
Medical offices
   Type I or II F.R. 1           $100.79
   Type II-One Hour              $77.74
   Type II-N                     $73.87
   Type III-One Hour             $81.87
   Type III-N                    $78.52
   Type V-One Hour               $76.02
   Type V-N                      $73.36
Offices2
   Type I or II F.R. 1           $90.04
   Type II-One Hour              $60.29
   Type II-N                     $57.45
   Type III-One Hour             $65.10
   Type III-N                    $62.26
   Type V-One Hour               $60.97
   Type V-N                      $57.45
Private garages:
   Wood Frame Attached           $20.47
   Wood Frame-Detached           $23.03
   Masonry-Attached              $23.13
   Masonry-Detached              $26.20
   Carports                      $14.02
Public buildings:
   Type I or II F.R. 1           $104.06
   Type II-One Hour              $84.28
   Type II-N                     $80.58
   Type III-One Hour             $87.55
   Type III-N                    $84.45
   Type V-One Hour               $80.07
   Type V-N                      $77.23
Public garages
   Type I or II F.R. 1           $41.28
   Type I or II Open Parking     $30.96
   Type II-N                     $23.65
   Type III-One Hour             $31.22
   Type III-N                    $27.78
   Type V-One Hour               $28.38
Restaurants
   Type III-One Hour             $82.13
   Type III-N                    $79.38
   Type V-One Hour               $75.25
   Type V-N                      $72.24
Schools
   Type I or II F.R.             $93.74
   Type II-One Hour              $63.98
   Type III-One Hour             $68.46
   Type III-N                    $64.16
   Type V-One Hour               $64.16
   Type V-N                      $61.23
Service stations (repair garages):
   Type II-N                     $56.67
   Type III-One Hour             $59.08
   Type V-One Hour               $50.31
   Pump Canopies                 $23.65
Stores (retail and wholesale)
   Type I or II F.R. 1           $69.49
   Type II-One Hour              $42.48
   Type II-N                     $41.54
   Type III-One Hour             $51.69
   Type III-N                    $48.50
   Type V-One Hour               $43.52
   Type V-N                      $40.25
Theaters
   Type I or II F.R.             $93.62
   Type III-One Hour             $67.42
   Type III-N                    $64.24
   Type V-One Hour               $63.47
   Type V-N                      $60.03
Warehouses3
   Type I or II F.R.             $41.62
   Type II or V-One Hour         $24.69
   Type II or V-N                $23.22
   Type III-One Hour             $28.04
   Type III-N                    $26.66
 
         (b)   The following must be calculated and added to the building
valuation:
 
Equipment/Systems
   Commercial (including hotels and motels)
      Air conditioning           $3.53
      Fire protection sprinkler s$2.25
   Residential
      Fire protection sprinkler s$1.60
 
NOTES TO TABLES: (division (B)(2))
1 Add 0.5% to total cost for each story over 3 stories.
2 Deduct 20% for shell only buildings. This same deduction amount can be used
when the shell area is finished.
3 Deduct 11% for mini-warehouses.
 
(1992 Code, § 520:05)
      (3)   Investigation fees; work without a permit.
         (a)   Investigation. Whenever any work for which a permit is required
by this code has been commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special
investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for such work.
         (b)   Fee. An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall
be collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The
investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee required by
this code. The minimum investigation fee shall be the same as the minimum fee
set forth in division (B)(1)(c) above. The payment of such investigation fee
shall not exempt any person from compliance with all other provisions of this
code, nor from any penalty prescribed by law.
(1992 Code, § 520:10)
      (4)   Plan review fees.
         (a)   When a plan or other data are required to be submitted by the
current State Building Code, a plan review fee shall be paid at the time of
submitting plans and specifications for review. Said plan review fee shall be
65% of the building permit fee as shown in division (B)(1)(c) above. (Please
note: the effective date of this division (B)(4) is 4-3-2006.)
         (b)   Where plans are incomplete or changed so as to require
additional plan review, an additional plan review fee shall be charged at the
rate shown in division (B)(1)(c) above.
(1992 Code, § 520:15)
      (5)   Building mover’s permit fee. (§
150.086) Any person who proposes to move any structure within the corporate
limits of the city shall secure a permit for each such moving, the fee for
which permit shall be $350.
(1992 Code, § 520:20)
      (6)   Mining and soil processing, permit fees. (§§
157.046 and
157.047) The fee for each permit for mining and soil processing shall be as set
by the Council from time to time, for zoning ordinance conditional use permits.
(1992 Code, § 520:30)
      (7)   Razing or demolishing buildings. The fee for a permit for razing or
demolishing a building shall be $50 if the building is not served by
underground utilities, and $100 for a building with utility services. (Please
note: The effective date of this division (B)(7) is 4-3-2006.)
(1992 Code, § 520:35)
      (8)   Trailers, temporary occupancy permit. (§
152.05) The fee for each trailer temporary occupancy outside of trailer coach
parks shall be $10.
(1992 Code, § 520:40)
      (9)   Trailers, hearing on granting, denying, renewal or revocation of
occupancy permit. (§
152.08) The fee to accompany a request for hearing on City Engineer’s action
granting, denying, renewing or revocation of a temporary trailer occupancy
permit shall be $20.
(1992 Code, § 520:45)
   (C)   Sewer rates, charges and fees.
      (1)   Definitions. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
words, combinations of words, terms and phrases, as used in this division (C),
shall have the meanings set forth in §
50.16 of this code of ordinances.
(1992 Code, § 540:00)
      (2)   Industrial sewer rates and charges established.
         (a)   Rates and charges for industrial use and service of the
municipal sanitary sewer system are hereby established. Such charges and rates
are to be made against each lot, parcel of land, unit or premises which may
have a connection directly or indirectly into the municipal sanitary sewer
system. Persons or owners discharging industrial wastes which exhibit none of
the characteristics of wastes prohibited in
Ch. 50 of this code or ordinances shall be charged on the basis of the
components set forth in division (C)(3)(b) below.
         (b)   1.   As its proportionate share of the expenses incurred by the
city in the construction, operation and maintenance of the sewerage works, the
persons will pay to the city an annual sum equal to the amount computed by the
application of the sampling procedures established by §§
50.22 through
50.25 of this code of ordinances and the following formula:
C = (f) (F) + (b) (B) + (ss) (S) + R
               a.   Where C = charge to industrial user, with units of $/yr;
               b.   f =   average city unit cost of waste water collection and
treatment chargeable to volume (flow), with units of $/1,000 gallons;
               c.   F = volume of waste water from industrial user, with units
of 1,000 gallons per year;
               d.   b = average city unit cost of waste water treatment
chargeable to BOD, with units of $/1,000 pounds of BOD;
               e.   B = weight of BOD from industrial user, with units of 1,000
pounds BOD per year;
               f.   ss = average city unit cost of waste water treatment
chargeable to suspended solids, with units of $/1,000 pounds of suspended
solids;
               g.   S = weight of suspended solids from industrial user, with
units of 1,000 pounds per year; and
               h.   R = annual cost of federal and/or state grant repayments,
in accordance with regulations applying to grant funds received by the city.
            2.   Average city unit costs shall be computed annually, and shall
include operation and maintenance costs, as well as annual capital costs. Total
costs (operation and maintenance plus capital costs) shall be distributed as
follows:
               a.   Volume (flow) = 40%;
               b.   BOD = 35%; and
               c.   Suspended solids = 25%.
            3.   This distribution will be applied annually, unless changes in
the actual cost - revenue pattern render another distribution more equitable.
            4.   Initial unit cost figures shall be:
               a.   f = $0.39 /100 cubic feet;
               b.   b = $481.95/1,000 pounds of BOD; and
               c.   ss = $339.07/1,000 pounds of suspended solids.
(1992 Code, § 540:03)
      (3)   Domestic sewer rates and charges established.
         (a)   Rates and charges for domestic wastewater disposal service shall
be $3.13 per 100 cubic feet of the average amount of water billed in the months
of December, January, and February and billed starting in March and each
subsequent month of the year at that calculated amount for residential
customers. Commercial, Light SIU, and Heavy SIU shall be billed on actual water
use monthly. To each such statement, each month shall be added a service charge
based on the meter size as shown in the following table (effective 1-1-2024).
 
Customer Class Monthly
Residential    $17.50
Commercial     $23.10
Light SIU      $76.13
Heavy SIU      $788.49
 
            1.   Vacant rental units with individual meters shall be charged
only the monthly service charge (effective 1-1-2016).
            2.   Single-family residential units that are not being serviced by
the city water system shall be charged the equivalent of seven CCF of
wastewater, equaling $21.91 per month, plus service charge for residential
meter (effective 1-1-2024).
            3.   A charge of $18.78 per month shall be made to new customers
and to new residential construction based on six CCF commencing on the date of
installation of the water meter and continuing until an average can be struck,
from use in December, January and February in addition to the service charge
based on the meter size. Customers moving within the city will be charged at
the rate established at their previous residence until an average can be struck
from use in December, January and February for the new residence (effective 1-
1-2024).
            4.   Bills are due and payable 21 days after the billing date on
the statement, and if not paid at that time, a late payment charge consisting
of 5% of the current past due amount will be added (effective 1-1-2020).
         (b)   Such charges and rates are to be made a lien against each lot,
parcel of land, unit or premises which may have a connection directly or
indirectly into the municipal sewer system and, if unpaid, may be certified for
collection as a special assessment against the said lot, parcel of land, unit
or premises.
         (c)   Any property owner who fails to comply with §
50.21(A) of this code of ordinances within the designated time frame indicated
in the city’s prohibited discharges, storm water drainage policy shall be
charged a sewer service surcharge of $100 per month (effective 4-4-2000).
(1992 Code, § 540:10)
      (4)   Commercial sewer rates and charges established.
         (a)   The rates and charges for commercial waste water disposal
service shall be calculated in the manner established for domestic sewer rates
set forth in division (C)(3) above, subject to division (C)(4)(b) below.
         (b)   Commercial units/optional method. Upon written application of a
commercial unit which sets forth unique circumstances showing that the
application of the method set forth in division (A) above creates a special
hardship, the city, in its discretion, may calculate the rate of $1.66 per 100
cubic feet of the average amount of water used in the months of January through
December of the preceding year and billed starting in February of the current
year and each subsequent month of the current year at that calculated amount
together with the service charge. The amount so calculated shall be calculated
annually (effective 5-4-2004).
         (c)   Such charges and rates are to be made a lien against each lot,
parcel of land, unit or premises which may have a connection directly or
indirectly into the municipal sewer system, and if unpaid may be certified for
collection as a special assessment against the said lot, parcel of land, unit
or premises.
(1992 Code, § 540:11)
      (5)   Sewer hook-up charges.
Residential     Fee
All connections $1,669.00
Multi-family*   $/Unit
All connections $1,335.00
Commercial      Fee
1” or smaller $3,186.00
1 ½”         $6,373.00
2”            $10,197.00
3”            $19,119.00
4”            $31,866.00
6”            $63,725.00
Industrial      $/100 gallons per day
All connections $801.00
 
* Three or more units in one building. Multi-family users may be considered
residential or commercial for regular sewer usage billings depending on how the
property is connected and metered. For example, a multi-unit apartment that
receives one utility bill should be considered commercial and a multi-unit
condo complex where each unit received a utility bill should be considered
residential. Both situations would be treated as multi-family for SACs.
(1992 Code, § 540:15)
      (6)   Industrial waste water discharge permit fee. A fee for waste water
discharge permit, as authorized in §
51.07 of this code of ordinances, shall be $1,000.
(1992 Code, § 540:20)
      (7)   Residential septic tank discharge fee. A fee for a septic tank
discharge, as authorized in § 50.32 of this code of ordinances, shall be $100
per 1,000 gallons (effective 10-1-1991).
(1992 Code, § 540:25)
      (8)   Sanitary sewer access charge. The sanitary sewer access charge
(SAC) as authorized in §
50.33 of this code of ordinances shall be $2,000 (effective 3-1-2006).
(1992 Code, § 540:30)
   (D)   Miscellaneous licenses and permits.
      (1)   Fees, rates and charges for miscellaneous licenses and permits of
the following kinds shall be for the term, upon the conditions and in the
amounts set forth below:
Code Section Type of License Conditions and Terms Amount
Code    Type of       Conditions and Terms                                                          Amount
Section License
        Application
        to vacate
        easement or   Vacation of street or alley right-of-way                                      $400
94.020  right-of-way
        (effective 8-
        1-2003)
                     Vacation of or redefining of utility easement                                 $200
                    Assessments applicable to the vacated right-of-way shall be charged at the
                      time of transfer of ownership
        Site plan
       review for    0.3% of construction valuation as determined for building permit (effective 8-1-2003)
        zoning
        compliance
        Annexation    To defray administrative costs of reviewing and processing annexation requests, a fee of
       requests      $350, plus $10 for every acre requested for annexation shall be paid for each annexation
        (effective 8- request. For establishing a fee, the land being requested for annexation shall be rounded to
        1-2003)       the nearest acre
        Fee for
        variance for
        recreational
        vehicle
       parking and   The fee for requesting a variance for recreational vehicle parking and storage in
        storage in    residential districts pursuant to § 71.005(B), $100
        residential
        districts
        (effective 9-
        6-2005)
32.002  Assessment                                                                                 $15 per
(K)     searches                                                                                    request
        Curbing
94.060  construction                                                                               $50
        permit
        Curb cut
        permit,
94.061, residential,                                                                               $75
94.062  commercial
        and
        industrial
                                                                                                    $0.25 per page
32.003                                                                                              if 100 or
(J)     Data requests                                                                              fewer pages
                                                                                                    (Or actual
                                                                                                    cost.
                                                                                                    $25; $50 for
                                                                                                    second
        Impounding                                                                                  occurrence
        and                                                                                         within 12
        discharging   Impounding fee                                                                months: $100;
        of animals                                                                                  for any
90.08,                                                                                              occurrences
90.27                                                                                               over 2 within
                                                                                                    12 months
                                                                                                    $20, plus any
                                                                                                    incurred
                     Care and feeding of animal while impounded, per day                           veterinary or
                                                                                                    laboratory
                                                                                                    expenses
        Intoxicating
        and non-
        intoxicating
        malt liquor
91.24   at Lake       Effective for the dates for which the permit was issues                       $25
        Kohlmier
        Beach;
        exemption
        permit
        Junked
93.021  vehicles      Not over 6 months                                                             $10
        storage
90.08   Kennels       1 year                                                                        $25
        Lot split
        fees          Lot splits requiring a public hearing
155.09  (effective 8-
        1-2003)
                     All other lot splits                                                          $25
        Noise
95.06   control;
(A)(3)  private                                                                                    $150
        exception
        application
        Sidewalk
94.05   construction                                                                               $40
        permit
94.097  Sidewalk use                                                                               $10
        permit
        Street
94.045  blocking                                                                                   No charge
        permit
                                                                                                    $200 plus
                                                                                                    restoration
                                                                                                    per city
        Street                                                                                      requirement by
94.045  opening       For opening any hole in bituminous surfaced street                            applicant.
        permits                                                                                     City would
                                                                                                    inspect the
                                                                                                    restoration
                                                                                                    completed by
                                                                                                    the applicant
                                                                                                    $200 plus
                                                                                                    restoration
                                                                                                    per city
                                                                                                    requirement by
                     For opening any hole in gravel or crushed rock street                         applicant.
                                                                                                    City would
                                                                                                    inspect the
                                                                                                    restoration
                                                                                                    completed by
                                                                                                    the applicant
                        $7.50 per sq. yd.                                                       Minimum fee
                                                                                                    $200 plus
                                                                                                    restoration
                                                                                                    per city
                                                                                                    requirement by
                     For opening any hole in concrete surfaced street                              applicant.
                                                                                                    City would
                                                                                                    inspect the
                                                                                                    restoration
                                                                                                    completed by
                                                                                                    the applicant
                     For opening any hole in bituminous over concrete base                         $270
                        $52.50 per sq. yd.
                                                                                                    To defray
                                                                                                    administrative
                                                                                                    costs of
                                                                                                    processing
                                                                                                    each
        Subdivision                                                                                 subdivision
        regulations                                                                                 plat, a fee of
Ch. 155 (effective 8-                                                                              $300, plus $10
        1-2003)                                                                                     for each lot
                                                                                                    or outlot
                                                                                                    within the
                                                                                                    subdivision
                                                                                                    shall be paid
                                                                                                    for each
                                                                                                    subdivision
        Towing and                                                                                  Actual cost,
        storage of                                                                                  not exceeding
72.04   cars          Towing and storage of impounded cars                                          $300 less any
        illegally                                                                                   fines
        parked
        Zoning
Ch. 157 ordinance     Conditional use permit
        (effective 8-
        1-2003)
                       Single-family residence except house relocation                         $200
                       All other conditional use permit requests                               $300
                       After the fact                                                          $400
                       Amendment to Zoning Ordinance                                           $400
                       Amendment to Zoning Map                                                 $400
                    Variance
                       Single-family residence except house relocation                         $200
                       All other variance requests                                             $300
                        After the fact                                                          $400
                      Planned unit development (PUD)                                                $400
                      Environmental assessment worksheet (EAW)                                      $400
        Zoning                                                                                      $40
        letters
        Zoning                                                                                      $20
        permits
        Micromobility
121.02  sharing       The license fee shall pay the city an annual fee to be established by the     $500, plus $25
(C)     businesses    city from time to time to offset the city’s administrative costs related to per scooter
        (electric     implementation and oversight of the license agreement.
        scooters)
         
 
         (2)   The following shall be the schedule of fees for grading, erosion
and sediment control permit fees pursuant to § 317:04, Subd. 4:
Commercial and industrial
   500 sq. ft. or less                           No fee
   501 sq. ft. or more                           $250
   Area is based on total sq. ft. of ground area
disturbed
Demolition
   Single-family residential                     $75
   All others                                    $250
Multi-family
   500 sq. ft. or less                           No fee
   501 sq. ft. or more                           $175
   Area is based on total sq. ft. of ground area
disturbed
Non-permitted land disturbing activities
   500 sq. ft. or less                           No fee
   501 sq. ft. or more                           $175
   Area is based on total sq. ft. of ground area
disturbed
Single-family residential/townhome
   500 sq. ft. or less                           No fee
   501 to 3,000 sq. ft.                          $100
   3,001 sq. ft. or more                         $100, plus $25 each 1,000
                                                    sq. ft.
   Square footage area is based on building
footprint
Utilities
   Base fee                                      $25
   Per lineal foot disturbed                     $0.10
 
   (E)   Right of way fees and charges pursuant to §§
94.125 through
94.154.
 
Code Section Permit                Amount
             Excavation permit fee $125 per permit
§§         Hole fee              $95 per hole
94.125 -     Emergency hole        $100
94.154       Trench                $20 per 100 linear feet
             Degradation fees      As determined by City Engineer
 
(1992 Code, § 550:00)
(Ord. 1172, passed 10-21-1997; Ord. 1198, passed 1-5-1999; Ord. 1207, passed 5-
4-1999; Ord. 1227, passed 4-4-2000; Ord. 1230, passed 5-2-2000; Ord. 1246,
passed 11-6-2000; Ord. 1303, passed 12-17-2002; Ord. 1311, passed 4-1-2003;
Ord. 1318, passed 6-3-2003; Ord. 1319, passed 6-3-2003; Ord. 1324, passed 7-15-
2003; Ord. 1332, passed 12-16-2003; Ord. 1333, passed 12-16-2003; Ord. 1342,
passed 5-4-2004; Ord. 1344, passed 5-4-2004; Ord. 1371, passed 6-21-2005; Ord.
1381, passed 9-6-2005; Ord. 1390, passed 12-20-2005; Ord. 1392, passed 2-7-
2006; Ord. 1427, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 1435, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 1447,
passed 9-15-2009; Ord. 1448, passed 10-6-2009; Ord. 1486, passed 10-16-2012;
Ord. 1493, passed 1-22-2013; Ord. 1500, passed 5-21-2013; Ord. 1503, passed 7-
2-2013; Ord. 1531, passed 12-1-2015; Ord. 1536, passed 4-5-2016; Ord. 1547,
passed 11-15-2016; Ord. 1548, passed 11-15-2016; Ord. 1550, passed 12-20-2016;
Ord. 1555, passed 2-7-2017; Ord. 1559, passed 4-4-2017; Ord. 1573, passed 12-
19-2017; Ord. 1583, passed 6-5-2018; Ord. 1588, passed 12-4-2018; Ord. 1592,
passed 8-7-2019; Ord.1602, passed 1-21-2020; Ord. 1613, passed 12-15-2020; Ord.
1614, passed 3-16-2021; Ord. 1625, passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 1632, passed 4-5-
2022; Ord. 1640, passed 12-20-2022; Ord. 1644, passed 3-21-2023; Ord. 1659,
passed 12-5-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS; DOMESTIC AND INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER
      
51.   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT
      
52.   STORM WATER
      
53.   DISCONNECTION
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS; DOMESTIC AND INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER
Section
Assessments
   
50.01   Procedure when no assessment made
   
50.02   Possible prior assessment
Domestic and Industrial Wastewater
   
50.15   Purpose
   
50.16   Definitions
   
50.17   Admission of industrial wastes into the public sewers
   
50.18   Pretreatment of industrial wastes
   
50.19   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
50.20   Submission of information relating to pretreatment
   
50.21   Prohibited discharges; unlawful acts
   
50.22   Control of admissible wastes
   
50.23   Control chambers
   
50.24   Measurement of flow
   
50.25   Sampling of wastes
   
50.26   Powers and authority of enforcing agents
   
50.27   Protection from damage
   
50.28   Charges
   
50.29   Participation in future construction costs
   
50.30   Billing practice
   
50.31   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.32   Disposal of septic tank waste in sanitary sewer or storm sewer
   
50.33   Sewer access charge
Private Wells, Septic Tanks, Cesspools and Privies
   
50.45   Certain private wells prohibited
   
50.46   Privies and outhouses
   
50.47   Sewer and water connection required
   
50.48   Notice to owner
   
50.49   Toilet installation; privy removal; assessment
   
50.50   Outside toilets, cesspools, septic tanks, nuisances
Storm Sewer Improvement Tax District
   
50.65   Findings and determination
   
50.66   Creation and establishment
   
50.67   Property included
   
50.68   Effective date
 
   
50.99   Penalty
ASSESSMENTS
§ 50.01 PROCEDURE WHEN NO ASSESSMENT MADE.
   Where no sewer assessment has been made against property fronting on any
sewer in the city or benefitted by such sewer, no permit shall be granted to
connect onto any such sewer unless the person, firm or corporation seeking such
permit shall pay to the city for such permit or connection an amount equal to
the benefits to said property by reason of each connection, as determined by
the Council, said amount to be paid in a lump sum based on current assessment
rates; provided, however, that, no such assessment shall exceed the cost of
ordinary street mains in front of such property so to be assessed.
(1992 Code, § 275:00)
§ 50.02 POSSIBLE PRIOR ASSESSMENT.
   It is also further provided that, if and when sanitary sewer is constructed
or built along property heretofore assessed in accordance with the provisions
of §
50.01 of this chapter, the Council, in its discretion, may allow the cost of
such assessment heretofore made in accordance with §
50.01 of this chapter to be applied toward the cost of any such sanitary sewer
hereafter constructed.
(1992 Code, § 275:10)
DOMESTIC AND INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER
§ 50.15 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city has provided facilities for the collection and treatment of
wastewater to promote the health, safety and convenience of its people and for
the safeguarding of water resources common to all.
   (B)   Provision must be made in the design, construction and operation of
such facilities to accommodate certain types and quantities of industrial
wastes in excess of, and in addition to, normal domestic wastewater.
   (C)   It is the obligation of the producers of industrial wastes to pay the
costs of extra services rendered by the city in an equitable manner.
   (D)   Proper protection and operation of the collection and treatment
facilities may require either the exclusion, pretreatment or controlled
discharge at the point of origin of certain types or quantities of industrial
wastes.
   (E)   The infiltration or discharge of storm water into the sanitary sewer
system of the city is detrimental to the health, safety, welfare and
convenience of the public.
(1992 Code, § 276:00)
§ 50.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter and
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Council of the City of Owatonna, or its duly
authorized board, agent or representative.
   BOD. The quantity of oxygen expressed in parts per million by weight,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory conditions in five days at a temperature of 20°C. The laboratory
determination shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard
Methods.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning three feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the sewer or other
place of deposit.
   CAPITAL COST. The total cost incurred in the construction of wastewater
treatment facilities, consisting of, but not limited to, the sums spent for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Actual sums paid for construction of wastewater treatment
facilities;
      (2)   Actual engineering fees paid for preliminary engineering studies,
plans and specifications, supervision during construction, construction
staking, operation and maintenance manuals and initial operator training;
      (3)   Actual sums paid for soils investigations, wastewater sampling and
materials testing required for such construction;
      (4)   Actual fees and wages paid for legal, administrative and fiscal
services required by construction of wastewater treatment facilities; and
      (5)   Actual interest paid on the total amount financed by debt
obligation for construction of wastewater treatment facilities.
   CITY. The City of Owatonna, Minnesota, or any authorized person acting in
its behalf.
   COLLECTION SYSTEM. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the
collection, transportation and pumping of domestic wastewater and industrial
wastes.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Water-borne wastes normally discharged into the
sanitary conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels),
office building, factories and institutions, free of storm and surface water
and industrial wastes.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes and residue from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food; and from the handling, storage and sale of food products
and produce.
   INDUSTRIAL SERVICE CHARGE. The charge made to users of the public sewer
system whose wastes exceed in strength the concentration values established as
representative of normal sewage, or exceed 10,000 gallons in average daily
flow.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Water-borne solids, liquids or gaseous wastes resulting
from and discharged, permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial,
manufacturing or food processing operation or process or from the development
of any natural resource, or any mixture of these with water or domestic
wastewater as distinct from normal domestic wastewater.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Normal wastewater for the city in which the
average concentration of suspended materials and five-day BOD is established at
240 parts per million each, by weight.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COST. Annual expenditures made by the city in the
operation and maintenance of its wastewater treatment facilities, consisting
of, but not limited to, the sums spent for each and all of the following
purposes for the 12-month period of record prior to computing the industrial
service charge:
      (1)   Wages and salaries of all operating, maintenance, administrative
and supervisory personnel, together with all premiums paid on such wages and
salaries (state worker’s compensation coverage, for example);
      (2)   Actual sums paid for electricity for light and power used for
wastewater collection and treatment facilities;
      (3)   Actual sums paid for chemicals, fuel and other operating supplies;
      (4)   Actual sums paid for repairs to and maintenance of wastewater
treatment facilities and the equipment associated therewith;
      (5)   Actual sums paid as premiums for hazard insurance carried on
sewerage works;
      (6)   Actual sums paid as premiums for insurance providing coverage
against liability imposed by law for the injury to persons and/or property
(including death) of any person or persons resulting from the use and
maintenance of said sewerage works; and
      (7)   Actual sums paid for replacement of equipment within the useful
life of the wastewater treatment facilities, for example the cost to replace an
electric motor or pump that fails, or a broken part in a pump.
   PARTS PER MILLION. A weight-to-weight ratio; the parts per million value
multiplied by the factor 8.345 shall be equivalent to pounds per million
gallons of water. PARTS PER MILLIONS and MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l) shall be
synonymous terms.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, association, governmental unit or group.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed in moles per liter. It shall be determined by one of
the procedures outlined in Standard Methods.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
shall be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties shall have
equal rights and interest controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys wastewater or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally passed.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying wastewater.
   SEWERAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of wastewater and industrial wastes.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
latest edition at the time of the analysis of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, as prepared, approved and published
jointly by the American Public Health Association, the Water Pollution Control
Federation and the American Water Works Association.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer that carries storm and surface water and
drainage, but excludes wastewater and polluted industrial wastes.
   STORM WATER and STORM WATER RUNOFF. The portion of the rainfall that is
drained into the storm sewers or storm drains.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER OR WASTE. Water or waste containing none of the following:
emulsified grease or oil; acids or alkalis; phenols or other substances
imparting taste and odor in receiving water; toxic or poisonous substances in
suspension, colloidal state or solution; and noxious or otherwise obnoxious
odorous gases. It shall contain not more than five parts per million each of
suspended solids and BOD. The color shall not exceed 50 units under procedures
set forth in Standard Methods.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of the water-borne waste from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm water as may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES. Any city-owned facilities, devices and
structures used for receiving and treating wastewater from the city sanitary
sewer system.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(1992 Code, § 276:03)
§ 50.17 ADMISSION OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES INTO THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Review and acceptance of the approving authority shall be obtained
prior to the discharge into the public sewers of any wastes and waters having
one or more of the following characteristics:
      (1)   A five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen-demand (BOD) greater than 240
ppm;
      (2)   A suspended solids concentration greater than 240 ppm; and/or
      (3)   A volume greater than 10,000 gallons per day.
   (B)   A special agreement or contract for service may be executed when such
an agreement is deemed appropriate by either the city or industry requesting
service. Such agreements shall be in accordance with all sewer use ordinances
and rate structures.
(1992 Code, § 276:06) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Where required, in the opinion of the approving authority, to modify
or eliminate wastes that are harmful to the structures, processes or operation
of the wastewater treatment facilities, the person shall provide, at his or her
expense, such preliminary treatment or processing facilities as may be
determined necessary to render his or her wastes acceptable for admission to
the public sewers.
   (B)   (1)   Where discharge of such wastes to the sanitary sewer are not
properly pretreated or otherwise modified, the approving authority may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes or terminate the service of water and/or
sanitary sewer;
         (b)   Require control of the quantities and rates of discharge of such
wastes; or
         (c)   Require payment of surcharges for excessive cost for treatment;
provided, such wastes are amenable to treatment by the normal wastewater
treatment facilities operated by the city.
      (2)   The amount of surcharge shall be computed as twice the actual
incremental costs (above normal costs for labor, power, chemicals, equipment
rental, mileage and the like) experienced by the city for handling the
improperly pretreated wastewater. See §§
50.28 and
50.29 of this chapter and
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances for method of computing normal industrial
waste charges.
(1992 Code, § 276:09)
§ 50.19 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amount or any flammable wastes,
sand and other harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwellings. All interceptors shall be of
a type and capacity approved by the approving authority and shall be located as
to be readily and easily accessible for easy cleaning and inspection. Grease
and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with easily removable covers
which, when bolted in place, shall be gas-tight and water-tight. All grease,
oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her
expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(1992 Code, § 276:12) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 SUBMISSION OF INFORMATION RELATING TO PRETREATMENT.
   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment or processing facilities shall be submitted for
approval by the approving authority prior to the start of their construction,
if the effluent from such facilities is to be discharged into the public
sewers.
(1992 Code, § 276:15) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Prohibited discharges, storm water drainage. No person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any “storm water drainage”, defined as any
storm water, ground water or flow from roof runoff, subsurface drainage, down
spouts, yard drains, sump pumps, yard fountains, drains, swimming pools, ponds,
cistern overflows or lawn sprays into any sanitary sewers.
      (2)   Unlawful acts. It is unlawful for any person to make or maintain a
connection between eaves troughs, rainspouts, footing drains or any other
conductor used to carry natural precipitation or ground water, and the sanitary
sewer system or any part thereof.
      (3)   Violation. Any property owner in violation of this section, and
upon receiving notice of said violation, shall disconnect the conductor from
the sanitary sewer system within the designated time as determined by the
city’s prohibited discharges, storm water drainage policy. Any property owner
in violation of this section shall be assessed a monthly surcharge, the amount
of which will be established by
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances, for each month that the conductor is not
permanently disconnected. Failure to permanently disconnect the conductor, or
reconnection of a disconnected conductor, may result in the suspension of water
and sanitary sewer service.
      (4)   Unlawful discharge. It is unlawful to discharge storm water or any
other prohibited drainage anywhere other than a specifically designed storm
sewer or any other specifically designed point approved by the city and/or
other regulatory agencies.
      (5)   Surcharge. Any property found where a reconnection of a
disconnected prohibited discharge storm water drainage conductor has occurred
shall be assessed a surcharge of $100 per month. The surcharge shall be
calculated from the date of the certificate of compliance and remain in effect
until disconnection has been reestablished. Failure to permanently disconnect
the conductor shall result in the suspension of water and sanitary service.
(1992 Code, § 276:18)
   (B)   Regulations relative to prohibited discharges.
      (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, all storm water drainage
hereinabove prohibited in division (A) above shall be disconnected by the
owner, tenant or occupant, at his, her or their expense, no later than 9-1-
1975.
      (2)   To ensure compliance, the City Council may, by resolution,
designate a person or persons who shall be authorized and given authority at
any reasonable hour to enter any building or premises for the purpose of
inspecting the same to determine whether or not the premises comply with the
terms of this subchapter.
      (3)   Such inspection may be made at any reasonable hour and such
inspector may do such acts as may reasonably be necessary to determine the
facts with reference to any suspected violation.
      (4)   The designated inspector shall give written notice to the owner,
and the tenant or occupant if rental property, directing him or her to
disconnect such prohibited storm water drainage from the sanitary sewer system
within such time as may be prescribed in the notice.
      (5)   If any person fails or refuses to make the disconnection from the
sanitary sewer system required by this subchapter, the city may make the
necessary corrections and charge the cost thereof to the property owner. Such
charges are hereby made a lien upon such premises and shall be certified to the
County Auditor as a special assessment and collected with other taxes.
      (6)   In cases where, and in the opinion of the approving authority, the
character of the wastewater from any manufacturer or industrial plant building
or other premises is such that it will damage the system or cannot be treated
satisfactorily in the system, the approving authority shall have the right to
require such user to dispose of such waste otherwise and prevent it from
entering the city system.
      (7)   Any person aggrieved by action of the designated inspector or
approving authority under this section may appeal to the Board of Review and
Appeals hereunder in accordance with the procedure set forth therein.
      (8)   All subsurface drainage, footing drains and sump pump discharge
shall discharge underground into storm water drainage systems in all newly
platted areas that have been accepted after 2-19-1974.
(1992 Code, § 276:21)
   (C)   Prohibited discharges, specific requirements. No person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged either directly or indirectly any of the
substances, materials, waters or waste described in this division (C):
      (1)   Any liquid having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
(Exceptions may be granted for short duration flows where it has been shown
that the high temperature wastewater would not cause any significant sewerage
works problems.)
      (2)   Any water or wastes which contain wax, grease or oil, plastic or
other substances that will solidify or become discernible viscous at
temperatures between 32° to 150°F;
      (3)   Any solids, liquids or gases which, by themselves or by interaction
with other substances, may cause fire or explosion hazards, or in any other way
may be injurious to persons, property or the operator of the wastewater
treatment facilities;
      (4)   Any solids, slurries or viscous substances of such character as to
be capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference
with the proper operation of the wastewater treatment facilities, such as
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, lime
slurry, lime residues, chemical residues or bulk solids;
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been properly comminuted or shredded. If
properly comminuted or shredded, then it may be accepted under provisions
established in §§
50.17 through
50.20 of this chapter;
      (6)   Any noxious or malodorous substance which, either singly or by
interaction with other substances, is capable of causing objectionable odors,
or hazard to life; or forms solids in concentrations exceeding limits
established in §§
50.17 through
50.20 of this chapter or creates any other conditions deleterious to structures
or treatment processes; or requires unusual provisions, alteration or expense
to handle such materials;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0
or having any corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazards to
structures, equipment or personnel (exceptions may be granted for short
duration flows where it has been shown that the high or low pH would not cause
any significant sewerage works problems);
      (8)   Any wastes or waters containing suspended or dissolved solids of
such character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to
handle such materials in the wastewater collection and treatment facilities;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance such
as plating or heat treating wastes in sufficient quantity to injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, to constitute a hazard to
humans or animals or to create any hazard in the receiving waters of the
wastewater treatment facilities;
      (10)   Any cyanide greater than one part per million, as CN;
      (11)   Any hexavalent chromium greater than one part per million;
      (12)   Any trivalent chromium greater than ten parts per million;
      (13)   Any copper greater than one part per million;
      (14)   Any nickel greater than one part per million;
      (15)   Any cadmium greater than one part per million;
      (16)   Any zinc greater than one part per million;
      (17)   Any phenols greater than 12 parts per million;
      (18)   Any iron greater than 12 parts per million;
      (19)   Any tin greater than one part per million; and/or
      (20)   Any radioactive wastes greater than allowable releases as
specified by current United States Bureau of Standards’ handbooks dealing with
the handling and release of radioactive materials.
(1992 Code, § 276:24)
   (D)   Prohibited discharges, quantity and concentrations. Except in
quantities or concentrations, or with provisions as set forth herein, it shall
be unlawful for any person, corporation or individual to discharge waters or
wastes to the sanitary sewer containing:
      (1)   Free or emulsified oil and grease exceeding on analysis an average
of 100 parts per million (834 pounds per million gallons) of either or both, or
combinations of free or emulsified oil and grease, if, in the opinion of the
approving authority, it appears probable that such wastes:
         (a)   Can deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such manner as
to clog the sewers;
         (b)   Are not amenable to bacterial action and will therefore pass to
the receiving waters without being affected by normal wastewater treatment
processes; and
         (c)   Can have deleterious effects on the treatment process.
      (2)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of solids or composition; as for example,
in total suspended solids of inert nature (such as fuller’s earth) and/or in
total dissolved solids (such as sodium chloride or sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration;
         (c)   Unusual biochemical oxygen demand or an unusual immediate oxygen
demand; and/or
         (d)   High hydrogen sulfide content.
(1992 Code, § 276:27)
(Ord. 1226, passed 4-4-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 CONTROL OF ADMISSIBLE WASTES.
   Any person desiring to deposit or discharge any industrial waste mixture
into the sewers of the city or any sewer connected therewith shall make written
application to the approving authority.
(1992 Code, § 276:30)
§ 50.23 CONTROL CHAMBERS.
   Any person discharging or desiring to discharge an industrial waste mixture
into the sewerage works of the city, or any sewer connected therewith, shall
provide and maintain in a suitable accessible position on his or her premises,
or such premises occupied by him or her, an inspection chamber or manhole near
the outlet of each sewer, drain, pipe, channel or connection which communicates
with any sewer or sewerage works of the city or any sewer connected therewith.
Each such manhole or inspection chamber shall be of such design and
construction as to prevent infiltration by ground and/or surface waters and to
prevent the entrance of objectionable slugs or solids (greater than one-half
inch in size) into the sanitary wastewater system. The inspection chamber shall
be maintained by persons discharging waste so that any authorized
representative or employee of the city may readily and safely measure the rate
of flow and obtain samples of the flow at all times. Plans for the construction
of control manholes or inspection chambers, including such flow measuring
devices as may be required, shall be approved by the approving authority prior
to the beginning of construction. Such structures and equipment (including a
valve on the effluent line) shall be installed by the person at his or her
expense.
(1992 Code, § 276:33) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   (A)   (1)   The water consumption during the previous year, as determined
from the meter records of the Water Department, shall be the valid basis for
computing the wastewater flow, unless actual wastewater flow measurement by a
recording meter of an approved type is required by either the approving
authority or industry.
      (2)   The owner shall install and maintain such device in proper
condition to accurately measure such flow.
      (3)   Upon failure to do so, the water consumption shall be the basis for
determining the applicability of this subchapter and computing the industrial
service charge.
   (B)   When water is contained in a product or is evaporated or is discharged
in an uncontaminated condition to surface drainage, an application may be made
for a reduction in the volume of waste discharge to the public sewer, provided
supporting data satisfactory to the approving authority is furnished. This data
shall include a flow diagram, destination of water supply and/or waste
supported by sub-metering data obtained on the process piping at the expense of
the private owner.
(1992 Code, § 276:36) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 SAMPLING OF WASTES.
   Sampling of the effluent of waste discharges may be accomplished manually or
by the use of mechanical equipment to obtain a 24-hour composite sample which
would be representative of the total effluent. Samples shall be taken at such
intervals as determined by the approving authority as necessary to maintain a
control over the discharges from the establishment. The methods used in the
examination of all wastewater to determine suspended solids, BOD and
concentrations of prohibited wastes shall be as set forth in §
50.16 of this chapter. All costs for sampling and testing of industrial
discharges, as ordered by the approving authority, shall be paid by the person
making such discharges. All tests shall be conducted by qualified personnel and
in accordance with Standard Methods. Test results shall be reported within a
reasonable time.
(1992 Code, § 276:39)
§ 50.26 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF ENFORCING AGENTS.
   (A)   The approving authority shall be permitted to gain access to such
properties, at all reasonable times, as may be necessary for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurements sampling and testing, in accordance with
provision of these regulations. Any person found to be violating any provisions
of this subchapter shall be served by the city with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit shall be summarily disconnected from the sanitary sewer
and/or water service. Such disconnection and reconnection shall be at the total
expense of the customer.
   (B)   Where acids and chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment
processes are released to the sewer causing rapid deterioration of these
structures or interfering with proper treatment of wastewater, the approving
authority is authorized to immediately terminate services by such measures as
are necessary to protect the facilities.
(1992 Code, § 276:42)
§ 50.27 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenances or
equipment which is part of the municipal sewerage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(1992 Code, § 276:48) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.28 CHARGES.
   (A)   Industrial waste charges. Persons or owners discharging industrial
wastes shall be charged the amount duly established by the Council from time to
time.
(1992 Code, § 276:51)
   (B)   Domestic waste charges. Rates and charges for domestic wastewater
disposal service shall be in the amount duly established by the Council from
time to time.
(1992 Code, § 276:54)
   (C)   Commercial waste charges. Rates and charges for commercial wastewater
disposal service shall be in the amount duly established by the Council from
time to time.
(1992 Code, § 276:55)
§ 50.29 PARTICIPATION IN FUTURE CONSTRUCTION COSTS.
   The annual rate of capital cost amortization for all improvements necessary
to increase the degree of treatment of the wastewater at the city wastewater
treatment facilities, where such improvements are required to meet standards of
effluent quality and purity established by the State Pollution Control Agency,
will be apportioned in accordance with the principles hereof and extend for a
period not to exceed the amortization period of such improvements.
(1992 Code, § 276:57)
§ 50.30 BILLING PRACTICE.
   Wastewater service charges provided for in this subchapter shall be included
as a separate item on the regular bill for utilities. Charges shall be paid at
the same time that the monthly utility charges of the person become due and
payment for services shall not be accepted without payment also of the sewer
service charge.
(1992 Code, § 276:63)
§ 50.31 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   Failure to pay monthly bills for the established sewer service charge when
due or repeated discharge of prohibited waste to the sanitary sewer shall be
sufficient cause to disconnect any and all services to the water and/or
sanitary sewer mains of the city and the same penalties and charges now or
hereafter provided for by the ordinances of the city for failure to pay the
bill for water service when due shall be applicable in like manner in case of
failure to pay the established charge for industrial waste discharge to the
sanitary sewer mains as established in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
(1992 Code, § 276:66)
§ 50.32 DISPOSAL OF SEPTIC TANK WASTE IN SANITARY SEWER OR STORM SEWER.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SEPTAGE. Those solids and liquids removed during periodic maintenance of
a septic or aerobic tank, or those solids and liquids which are removed from a
holding tank.
      SEPTIC TANK. Any water-tight, covered receptacle designed and constructed
to receive the discharge of sewage from a building sewer, separate solids from
liquid, digest organic matter and store liquids through a period of detention,
and allow the clarified liquids to discharge to a soil treatment system.
      SEWAGE TANK. A water-tight tank used in the treatment of sewage and
includes, but is not limited to, septic tanks and aerobic tanks.
   (B)   Discharge prohibited. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged, either directly or indirectly, septage except in the manner and
upon the conditions set forth as follows.
   (C)   License; permits. No person shall discharge septage into either the
sanitary sewer system or storm sewer system without first obtaining all
licenses and permits as are required by the state and by the county.
   (D)   City permit; declaration; fee. No person shall discharge septage
without first:
      (1)   Requesting the city’s permission to discharge septage at the
wastewater treatment facility;
      (2)   Paying the septage discharge fee as shall be established by the
Council from time to time; and
      (3)   Disclosing in writing in a declaration form prescribed by the city
the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the person making delivery of the
septage;
         (b)   The type of septage;
         (c)   The source of the septage;
         (d)   The weight of the septage load; and
         (e)   Any other information about the septage requested by the city.
   (E)   Exclusive discharge site. Septage shall be delivered and accepted at
the wastewater treatment facility only and at no other place.
   (F)   Domestic septage. Only septage from a domestic septic tank or holding
tank shall be accepted. The city may refuse any delivery which, in the judgment
of the wastewater treatment facility operator, is not suitable or otherwise
detrimental to the wastewater treatment facility or the health and welfare of
the city.
(1992 Code, § 276:70) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33 SEWER ACCESS CHARGE.
   (A)   Charge established. For the purpose of providing funds for the city’s
wastewater treatment, force mains, lift stations and sewage collection systems,
and the plant and facilities connected therewith, and the payment of capital
charges represented by bonds, certificates of indebtedness or otherwise, which
may be used to finance the costs of additions or expansions to the facilities,
and the payment of reasonable requirements for reserves for replacement in
obsolescence thereof, there is hereby imposed upon each lot, parcel of land,
building or premises to be connected hereafter to the city’s public sewer
system a sewer access charge (SAC) as hereinafter provided. Said charge shall
be in addition to any other previous or future charge or assessment levied
against the property and in addition to any connection fee or user charge for
sewer service. The sewer access charge provided herein is authorized and shall
be determined and imposed in accordance with Minn. Stat. § 444.075, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Administration of charge.
      (1)   Payment required prior to connection. Prior to issuance of any
building permit and before connection to the city’s sewer system, the sewer
access charge shall be paid.
      (2)   Additional building permit. If, after the initial sewer access
charge is paid, an additional building permit is issued, the use of the
property changes, or new sewer connection is made, the sewer access charge
shall be recalculated and any additional charges shall be paid.
   (C)   Determination of charge. The sewer access charge (SAC) shall be in an
amount as established by the City Council by ordinance and may be amended from
time to time.
   (D)   Effective date. This section became effective 3-1-2006.
(1992 Code, § 276:80) (Ord. 1389, passed 12-20-2005)
PRIVATE WELLS, SEPTIC TANKS, CESSPOOLS AND PRIVIES
§ 50.45 CERTAIN PRIVATE WELLS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect, keep, maintain or use in the city any private well or
other private source of water supply other than that source of supply furnished
by said city, which private water supply shall be found by the State Board of
Health to fail to meet the requirements of the State Board of Health or
otherwise be so impure as to be unfit for human consumption and so endanger
health, where the property upon which such private water supply is located
abuts a street on which there is available mains for city water supply.
(1992 Code, § 278.00) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.46 PRIVIES AND OUTHOUSES.
   No person shall erect, keep or maintain in the city any privy, outhouse,
earth closet, cesspool or septic tank, except those constructed in accordance
with the specifications of the State Board of Health, which may be constructed,
erected, kept or maintained upon property which does not abut upon a street
upon which there is a sanitary sewer line available to such property, provided,
however, the City Engineer may, upon application thereof, issue a special
permit of a temporary duration permitting a privy or outhouse constructed and
equipped in accordance with specifications of the State Board of Health, to be
used in connection with construction projects in the city and park and
recreational activities of the city.
(1992 Code, § 278.05) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.47 SEWER AND WATER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of every residence or business building abutting upon any street
or alley in which city water and sanitary sewer mains are maintained shall
install a toilet in the building and connect all sanitary facilities to the
water and sewer mains upon notice hereinafter provided.
(1992 Code, § 278.10) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.48 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Whenever it shall appear to the Council that the provisions of §§
50.45 through
50.47 of this chapter are not complied with and the Council shall so direct by
motion, the City Engineer shall give written notice to the owner of said
premises or his or her authorized agent personally or by mail at his or her
last known address to comply with this subchapter within 30 days of such
notice. If the owner cannot be reached by mail so addressed, service of such
notice may be made upon an occupant of said premises.
(1992 Code, § 278.15)
§ 50.49 TOILET INSTALLATION; PRIVY REMOVAL; ASSESSMENT.
   Whenever the notice provided for in §
50.48 of this chapter is not complied with, the Council may, in its discretion,
by resolution, direct the installation of a toilet and connection with the
water and sanitary sewer system, or direct the tearing down and removal of such
privy, outhouse, earth closet, cesspool or septic tank, or shall direct the
closing up of such private well or water supply. The cost of such installation
or work shall be paid initially from the General Fund and then be charged by
the Council against the property benefitted. If such charge is not paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days after a statement has been sent, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall prepare an assessment roll and shall submit such assessment
roll in the manner provided in Minn. Stat. § 429.101, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(1992 Code, § 278.20) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.50 OUTSIDE TOILETS, CESSPOOLS, SEPTIC TANKS, NUISANCES.
   When a toilet connected with the city water and sanitary sewer system has
been installed in any residence or business building on any parcel of land, any
outside privy, outhouse, earth closet, cesspool or septic tank not conforming
with requirements of this subchapter on said premises is declared a nuisance
and shall be removed by the owner within 30 days after the connection to the
water and sewer system has been made.
(1992 Code, § 278.25) Penalty, see §
50.99
STORM SEWER IMPROVEMENT TAX DISTRICT
§ 50.65 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATION.
   It is found and determined that it is in the best financial interests of the
city and its storm water management program that a storm sewer improvement tax
district be established.
(1992 Code, § 318) (Ord. 1429, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 50.66 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The storm sewer improvement tax district created by this subchapter is
hereby known as the “City of Owatonna Storm Sewer Improvement Tax District”
(the “District”).
   (B)   (1)   The District is hereby established.
      (2)   The city shall have all powers and authority conferred by the act
in the operation of the District.
(1992 Code, § 318) (Ord. 1429, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 50.67 PROPERTY INCLUDED.
   The property to be included within the District is the entire corporate
limits of the city.
(1992 Code, § 318) (Ord. 1429, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 50.68 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the amended Charter of the city, this subchapter shall be
in full force and effect upon publication in the Owatonna People’s Press.
   (B)   Once this subchapter is in full force and effect, the City
Administrator is authorized and directed to cause this subchapter to be
recorded with the County Auditor and the County Recorder, according to the Act.
(1992 Code, § 318) (Ord. 1429, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation offending against the provisions of §§
50.01 and
50.02 of this chapter shall be guilty of a penal offense.
(1992 Code, § 275:15)
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions
of §§
50.15 through
50.33 of this chapter shall be guilty of a penal offense. Each day of each such
violation shall be deemed a separate offense. Any person violating any of the
provisions of §§
50.15 through
50.33 of this chapter, with the exception of division (C)(2) below, shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage sustained by the city
by reason of such violation.
(1992 Code, § 276:45)
      (2)   Any person found to have violated any of the provisions of §
50.32 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. In addition to such
criminal penalty, any person violating any of the provisions of §
50.32 of this chapter shall be liable to the city for any loss sustained by the
city by reason of such violation.
(1992 Code, § 276:70)
   (D)   Any person who shall interfere with the execution of §§
50.45 through
50.50 of this chapter or who shall maintain a nuisance contrary to §
50.50 of this chapter shall be guilty of a penal offense and, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, plus the cost of prosecution in either case. A conviction
shall not bar a later conviction for subsequent violation of this section.
(1992 Code, § 278.30)
CHAPTER 51: INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Purpose and policy
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   General discharge prohibitions
   
51.04   Limitations on wastewater strength
   
51.05   Accidental discharges
   
51.06   Recovery costs
   
51.07   Charges and fees
   
51.08   Self-monitoring reports
   
51.09   Monitoring facilities
   
51.10   Inspection and sampling
   
51.11   Pretreatment
   
51.12   Final compliance date reporting requirements
   
51.13   Confidential information
   
51.14   Sludges generated
   
51.15   Slugs or accidental discharges
   
51.16   Revocation of permit
   
51.17   Notification of violation
   
51.18   Show cause hearing
   
51.19   Legal action
   
51.20   Annual publication
   
51.21   Appeal to City Council
Wastewater Discharge Permits
   
51.35   Mandatory permits
   
51.36   Permit application
   
51.37   Permit conditions
   
51.38   Permit duration
   
51.39   Permit modifications
   
51.40   Permit transfer
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for discharges to the
city’s wastewater treatment system and enables the city to comply with
applicable state and federal laws.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
treatment system which will interfere with the operation of the system or the
use or disposal of the sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
treatment system which will pass through the system inadequately treated into
receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system; and
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to reclaim sludge from the wastewater
treatment system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of discharges into the city’s
wastewater treatment system through the issuance of permits to certain users
and through enforcement of the general requirements for the other users,
authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires user reporting and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city wastewater
treatment system. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent of
the city wastewater treatment system shall administer, implement and enforce
the provisions of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 277:00)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD. For any pollutant, whichever local,
state or federal pretreatment standard is most stringent.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter [mg/l]).
      CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Clean
Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b) and (c).
      CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. National pretreatment standards
specifying quantities or concentrations of pollutants or pollutant properties
which may be discharged or introduced into a POTW by specific industrial users.
      CITY. The City of Owatonna, Minnesota, or the City Council.
      GENERAL PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS. General pretreatment regulations for
existing and new sources, 40 C.F.R. part 403.
      INDUSTRIAL USER. A person who discharges to city’s wastewater treatment
system liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in industrial,
manufacturing, trade or business establishments, or from the development of any
natural resource.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city’s wastewater
treatment system processes or operations which causes or significantly
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES or state
disposal system permit. The term includes prevention of wastewater sludge use
or disposal by the city in accordance with published regulations providing
guidelines under § 405 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345, or any regulations
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq., the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances
Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or more stringent state criteria
applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the city.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. Any
permit or requirements issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA)
pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq., as amended, for the purpose of regulating the discharge of wastewater,
industrial wastes or other wastes under the authority of § 402 of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
      NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added to the water is heat.
      PERSON. The state or any agency or institution thereof, any municipality,
governmental subdivision, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership or other entity, including, but not limited to, association,
commission or any interstate body, and including any officer or governing or
managing body of any municipality, governmental subdivision or public or
private corporation or other entity.
      pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions in moles per liter of solution.
      PRETREATMENT. The process of reducing the amount of pollutants,
eliminating pollutants or altering the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the city’s wastewater treatment
system. The reduction, elimination or alteration may be obtained by physical,
chemical or biological processes, process changes or other means, except as
prohibited by §
51.04(D) of this chapter.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the city’s wastewater
treatment system which:
         (a)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
         (b)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the city’s wastewater
treatment system;
         (c)   Has in its wastes toxic pollutants in toxic amounts as defined
pursuant to § 307 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317, or state statutes and
rules; or
         (d)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality
of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or air emissions generated by the
system.
      SLUG. Any waste discharge which, in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any time period longer than 30
minutes more than four times the average 24-hour concentration or flow during
normal operation.
      STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms, conditions
and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 115.07,
as it may be amended from time to time, for a treatment system as defined by
Minn. Stat. § 115.01, Subd. 8, as it may be amended from time to time.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The City Engineer or the Engineer’s duly authorized
representative.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is
removable by a standard glass fiber filter.
      USER. Any person who discharges, causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city’s wastewater treatment system.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is discharged into or permitted to
enter the city’s wastewater treatment system.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM OR SYSTEMS. Any devices, facilities,
structures, equipment or works owned or used by the city for the purpose of the
transmission, storage or treatment of industrial and domestic wastewater,
including intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, wastewater collection system,
pumping, power and other equipment, and their appurtenances; extensions,
improvements, remodeling additions and alterations thereof; and any works,
including land that will be an integral part of the treatment process or is
used for ultimate disposal or residues resulting from such treatment.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, aquifers,
irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of
water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which
are contained within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion
thereof.
   (B)   Terms not otherwise defined herein shall be as given in Minn. Stat.
Ch. 115 and 116, as they may be amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 277:01)
§ 51.03 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No user shall discharge or cause to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, any of the following described substances into the wastewater
treatment system or to any public sewer:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which, by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater treatment system or to the operation of the system. At no time shall
two successive readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge
into the system or at any point in the system, be more than 5%, nor any single
reading over 10%, of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which will or may cause obstruction to
the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with
particles greater than two inches in any dimension, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastic, gas tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing
of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 10.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater treatment system;
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
system. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1313(a);
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      (7)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
treatment system which violate any statute or any rule, regulation or ordinance
of any public agency or state or federal regulatory body;
      (8)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference;
      (9)   Any slug load, which shall mean any pollutant, including oxygen
demand pollutants (BOD and the like), released in a discharge of such volume or
strength as to cause inhibition or disruption in the wastewater treatment
system;
      (10)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm or ground water
unless there is no prudent and feasible alternative;
      (11)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 150 mg/l which may solidify or become viscous
at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and 65.6°C); and any wastewater
containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral origin of greater than 100
mg/l whether or not emulsified which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32°F and 150°F;
      (12)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in
such quantities that they would cause disruption with the wastewater treatment
system; and
      (13)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such a half-life or
concentration that they are in non-compliance with standards issued by the
appropriate authority having control over their use and which will or are
likely to cause damage or hazards to the city’s wastewater treatment system or
personnel operating it.
   (B)   In addition to these prohibitions, no user shall discharge to any
public sewer any discharge which causes interference, as defined, with the
wastewater treatment system. Pollutants in the effluent from an industrial user
shall not be considered to cause interference where the industrial user is in
compliance with specific prohibitions or standards developed by federal, state
or local governments. Where the industrial user is in compliance with such
specific prohibitions or standards, and pollutants in the effluent from the
industrial user’s facility nevertheless are determined to have caused or
significantly contributed to a violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES
or state disposal system permit, and are likely to cause such a violation in
the future, the city may take appropriate action to develop and enforce
specific effluent limits for that industrial user to ensure renewed and
continued compliance with the city’s NPDES or state disposal system permit.
(1992 Code, § 277:03) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   (A)   National categorical pretreatment standards.
      (1)   National categorical pretreatment standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Act shall be met by all
users which are subject to such standards in any instance where they are more
stringent than the limitations in this chapter unless the Superintendent has
applied for and obtained from the MPCA approval to modify the specific limits
in the national categorical pretreatment standards. When requested, an
application for modification of the national categorical pretreatment standards
will be considered for submittal by the Superintendent when the city’s
wastewater treatment system achieves consistent removal of the pollutants.
      (2)   CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall be defined as in 40 C.F.R. part 403 of the
General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of Pollution.
Conditional revisions of national categorical pretreatment standards may be
made by the city in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 403 of the General
Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of Pollution if requested
by an industry in accordance with requirements of 40 C.F.R. part 403.
   (B)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall be met by all users which are subject to such standards in any instance
in which they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this or any other applicable ordinance.
   (C)   City’s right of revision. The city reserves the right to establish by
ordinance more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the
wastewater treatment system if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives
presented in §
51.01 of this chapter.
   (D)   Dilution. No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any
way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained herein,
or in the national categorical pretreatment standards, or contained in any
state requirements.
   (E)   Supplementary limitations. Industrial wastewaters containing the
following substances shall not be in excess of the limits shown herein:
Industrial Allocations (lbs/day) of Toxic Pollutants
Toxic Pollutant Total (lbs/day)
Industrial Allocations (lbs/day) of Toxic Pollutants
Toxic Pollutant Total (lbs/day)
Cadmium         0.12
Chromium (+3)   7.40
Chromium (+6)   0.28
Chromium (T)    7.96
Copper          3.55
Cyanide         4.22
Lead            1.37
Nickel          1.54
Silver          0.44
Zinc            4.91
 
(1992 Code, § 277:05) (Ord. 1248, passed 12-5-2000)
§ 51.05 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where necessary,
facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the user’s own cost and expense. Plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection may be required
by the Superintendent for review, and shall be approved by the Superintendent
before construction of the facility. Review and approval of such plans and
operating procedures shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to
modify the user’s facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter. Users shall notify the Superintendent immediately upon having a slug
or accidental discharge of substances or wastewater in violation of this
chapter in order to enable countermeasures to be taken by the Superintendent to
minimize damage to the wastewater treatment system and the receiving waters.
Such notifications will not relieve users of liability for any expense, loss or
damage to the wastewater treatment system or treatment process, or for any
fines imposed on the city on account thereof under any state or federal law. A
notice shall be permanently posted in a prominent place advising employees whom
to call in the event of a slug or accidental discharge. Employers shall ensure
that all employees who may cause or discover such a discharge are advised of
the emergency notification procedure.
(1992 Code, § 277:07)
§ 51.06 RECOVERY COSTS.
   It is the purpose of this section to provide for the recovery of costs from
users of the city’s wastewater treatment system for the implementation of the
program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth
in the city’s schedule of charges and fees as detailed in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
(1992 Code, § 277:09)
§ 51.07 CHARGES AND FEES.
   The City Council shall adopt charges and fees which may include:
   (A)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (B)   Fees for permit applications;
   (C)   Appeal fees; and
   (D)   Other fees as the Superintendent may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
(1992 Code, § 277:11)
§ 51.08 SELF-MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   A requirement of the industrial discharge permit shall include the
completion and submittal of accurate self-monitoring reports to the
Superintendent as required under the permit. The nature and frequency of
routine reporting shall be based upon the information provided in the permit
application form.
   (B)   Users subject to pretreatment standards shall submit reports to the
city in accordance with the applicable pretreatment standards.
   (C)   Wastewater discharge records of a user shall be kept by the user for a
period of not less than three years. The user shall provide the Superintendent
reasonable access to these records during normal business hours. A user subject
to an applicable pretreatment standard shall maintain all records required by
40 C.F.R. § 403.12(n) of the general pretreatment regulations.
(1992 Code, § 277:15)
§ 51.09 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems shall be
provided and operated by industrial users at the city’s request. Water meters
shall be acceptable for monitoring flow if the wastewater discharge is directly
related to the water use. The monitoring facility should normally be situated
on the user’s premises, but the Superintendent may, when such a location would
be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be
constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and located so that it will
not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and compositing of samples for analysis. The
facility and sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times
in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the Superintendent’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed in accordance with a
construction schedule developed and agreed to mutually by the Superintendent
and the industrial user.
(1992 Code, § 277:17)
§ 51.10 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall inspect the facilities of any user to
ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements
are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is
created or discharged shall allow the Superintendent ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, records examination or in the performance of any of their duties. The
Superintendent, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) and Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) shall have the right to set up on the user’s property
such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance
monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in
force which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into
his, her or their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with any
security guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification, the
Superintendent, MPCA and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the
purposes of performing their specific responsibilities.
   (B)   Representative samples of a user’s industrial wastewater shall be
collected on normal operating days as provided in the user’s permit. Industrial
users subject to pretreatment standards shall sample in accordance with the
pretreatment standards. Self-monitoring point(s) for industrial users who are
not subject to pretreatment standards shall be at a location before wastewater
is mixed with other discharges or at a point where waste can be adequately
monitored.
(1992 Code, § 277:19)
§ 51.11 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all national
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations.
   (B)   Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater shall be provided,
operated and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the
Superintendent for review, and shall be acceptable to the Superintendent before
construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures
will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the
facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the Superintendent
under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities shall be reported to and be acceptable to the
Superintendent prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available by the Superintendent to officials of the EPA or MPCA upon
request.
   (D)   Any user subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard,
after the compliance date of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of the
commencement of a new discharge to the wastewater treatment system, shall
submit to the Superintendent during the months of June and December, unless
required more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the Superintendent,
a report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent
which are limited by such pretreatment standards.
(1992 Code, § 277:21)
§ 51.12 FINAL COMPLIANCE DATE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or, in the case of the commencement of a new discharge
to the wastewater treatment system, any user subject to pretreatment standards
and requirements shall submit to the Superintendent a report indicating the
nature and concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated
process which are limited by pretreatment standards and requirements and the
average and maximum daily flow for these process units in the user’s facility
which are limited by such pretreatment standards or requirements. The report
shall state whether the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are
being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional operation and
maintenance and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring the facility into
compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. This
statement shall be signed by the user and certified to by a qualified
professional.
(1992 Code, § 277:23)
§ 51.13 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from applications, permits,
monitoring programs and inspections shall be available to the public or other
government agencies without restriction unless the user specifically requests
and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the
release of such information would divulge information, processes or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, and until such time
as the information is determined not to be confidential, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
NPDES permit, state disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment programs;
provided, however, that, such portions of a report shall be available for use
by the state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics will not be recognized as confidential information. Information
accepted by the Superintendent as confidential, shall not be transmitted to any
governmental agency or to the general public by the Superintendent until and
unless a ten-day written notification is given to the user.
(1992 Code, § 277:25)
§ 51.14 SLUDGES GENERATED.
   Sludges, floats, skimmings and the like generated by an industrial or
commercial pretreatment system shall not be placed into the city’s wastewater
treatment system. Such sludges shall be contained, transported and disposed of
in accordance with all federal, state and local regulations.
(1992 Code, § 277:27)
§ 51.15 SLUGS OR ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The Superintendent may suspend the wastewater treatment service of a
user and/or a wastewater discharge permit (after written notice to the
discharger) when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the
Superintendent, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health
or welfare of persons, to the environment or to the wastewater treatment
system, or would cause the city to violate any condition of its NPDES or state
disposal system permit.
   (B)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the wastewater discharge permit shall immediately cease and desist and
stop the discharge. In the event of a failure of the user to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the Superintendent shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the wastewater treatment system or endangerment to any
individuals. The Superintendent shall reinstate the wastewater discharge permit
and/or the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the
non-complying discharge. A detailed written statement submitted by the user
describing the causes of the slug or accidental discharge and the measures
taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to the Superintendent
within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(1992 Code, § 277:29)
§ 51.16 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   In accordance with the procedures of §§
51.15 through
51.21 of this chapter, the Superintendent may revoke the permit of any user
which fails to factually report the wastewater constituents and characteristics
of its discharge; which fails to report significant changes in wastewater
constituents or characteristics; which refuses reasonable access to the user’s
premises for the purpose of inspection or monitoring or for violation of
conditions of its permit, this chapter, or applicable state and federal
regulations.
(1992 Code, § 277:31)
§ 51.17 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Superintendent finds that any user has violated or is violating
this chapter, wastewater discharge permit or any prohibition, limitation or
requirement contained herein, the Superintendent may serve upon such user a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days of the date
of the notice, unless a shorter time frame is necessary due to the nature of
the violation, a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be
submitted to the city by the user.
(1992 Code, § 277:33)
§ 51.18 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   Notice of hearing. If the violation is not corrected by timely
compliance, the Superintendent may order any user which causes or allows an
unauthorized discharge to show cause before the City Council why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the City Council
regarding the violation, the reason why the action is to be taken, the proposed
enforcement action and directing the user to show cause before the City Council
why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the
hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return
receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made on
any agent or officer of a corporation.
   (B)   Hearing officials. The City Council may itself conduct the hearing and
take the evidence, or may designate any of its members or any officer or
employee to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the City Council notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the protection of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the City
Council for action thereof.
   (C)   Transcripts. At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony
taken must be under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so
recorded, will be made available to any member of the public or any party to
the hearing upon payment of the usual charges therefor.
   (D)   Issuance of orders. After the City Council has reviewed the evidence,
it may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that,
following a specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances shall
have been installed or existing treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and directives as are
necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(1992 Code, § 277:35)
§ 51.19 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges wastewater, industrial wastes or other wastes into
the city’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements or any order of the city,
the City Attorney may, following the authorization of such action by the City
Council, commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief.
(1992 Code, § 277:37)
§ 51.20 ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   A list of the users which were significantly violating applicable
pretreatment requirements or national categorical pretreatment standards during
the 12 previous months may be annually published by the city in a local
newspaper. The notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken
against the user(s) during the same 12 months. For the purposes of this
provision, significant violations would be those violations which remain
uncorrected 45 days after notification of non-compliance; which are part of a
pattern of non-compliance over a 12-month period; or which involve a failure to
accurately report non-compliance. Notwithstanding the procedures described
above, for the duration of the County Community XL project, the public notice
procedures for significant non-compliance contained in the final project
agreement (IIC4) will be used.
(1992 Code, § 277:39) (Ord. 1248, passed 12-5-2000)
§ 51.21 APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any interested party shall have the right to request in writing an
interpretation or ruling on any matter covered by this chapter and shall be
entitled to a written reply from the city.
   (B)   (1)   Any decision of the Superintendent in the enforcement of this
chapter may be appealed to the City Council by filing a written petition with
the City Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days of the Superintendent’s ruling. Said
petition shall specify in detail the matter or matters involved and every
ground or basis on which objections are made. Said petition shall show the
names, addresses and telephone numbers of all objectors and their attorney at
law or spokesperson. The filing of a petition in accordance with the
requirements herein shall stay all proceedings unless the Superintendent shall
file within 72 hours after the filing of a petition a certificate stating that
a stay would cause peril to life or property or specifying other good reason.
      (2)   The City Council shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of the
petition or appeal and give due notice of the time and place of said hearing to
parties named in the petition as attorney or spokesperson. The hearing shall be
open to the public. Petitioners shall be given full opportunity to present
evidence in support of their petition after which the Superintendent may
present evidence in support of his or her decision.
   (C)   The City Council shall decide the appeal within a reasonable time and
notify the attorney or spokesman. The minutes of the Council shall constitute
the official record of the petition, hearing and decision. Any party desiring a
transcript of the proceedings shall furnish a qualified court reporter at his,
her or their own expense.
(1992 Code, § 277:41)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 51.35 MANDATORY PERMITS.
   (A)   All industries proposing to connect or to commence a new discharge to
the wastewater treatment system shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit
before connecting to or discharging into the wastewater treatment system if the
discharge would result in the industry being classified as a significant
industrial user.
   (B)   All existing significant industrial users or industrial users subject
to national categorical pretreatment standards under § 307(b) and (c) of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1313(b) and (c), connected to or discharging into the
wastewater treatment system shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit within
180 days after the effective date of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 277:13)
§ 51.36 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall complete
and file with the Superintendent, an application in the form prescribed by the
Superintendent. Existing users shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit
within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter, and proposed new users
shall apply at least 90 days prior to connecting or discharging to the
wastewater treatment system.
   (B)   In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units and
terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and location (if different from the address);
      (2)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not
limited to those governed by §§
51.03 through
51.05 of this chapter as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory;
sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by EPA in 40 C.F.R. part 136;
      (4)   Time and duration of discharge;
      (5)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   A plan showing the locations of a sewer, sewer connections and
appurtenances located in and coming from the plant;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged, including
sludges, floats, skimmings and the like;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any city, state or national categorical
pretreatment standards, and (for an existing discharge) a statement regarding
whether or not the pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis
and if not, whether additional operation and maintenance and/or additional
pretreatment is required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment
standards. If additional operation and maintenance and/or pretreatment will be
required, a proposed schedule by which the changes will be completed shall be
submitted. The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. The
schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of dates for the
commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standard. No increment shall exceed nine months in
length, and progress reports concerning each increment shall be submitted
within 14 days following each increment date;
      (9)   General description of products manufactured and rate of production
when required by local, state or federal regulations;
      (10)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (11)   Number of full- and part-time employees, and hours of operation;
and
      (12)   Any other information as may be deemed by the Superintendent to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   (1)   The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user
and may require additional information.
      (2)   After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the
Superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and
conditions provided herein.
(1992 Code, § 277:13)
§ 51.37 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the city.
   (B)   Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the wastewater treatment system;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Requirements for installation, operation and maintenance of
pretreatment facilities;
      (6)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency and method of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedule;
      (7)   Compliance schedules;
      (8)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (9)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the Superintendent, but in no case less
than three years, and affording Superintendent access thereto;
      (10)   Requirements for notification to and acceptance by the
Superintendent of any new introduction of wastewater constituents or of any
substantial change in the volume or character of the wastewater constituents
being introduced into the wastewater treatment system;
      (11)   Requirements for notification of slug or accidental discharges as
provided in §
51.05 of this chapter, and reporting of permit violations;
      (12)   Requirements for disposal of sludges, floats, skimmings and the
like; and
      (13)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 277:13)
§ 51.38 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum of 90 days prior to
the expiration of the user’s existing permit. The terms and conditions of the
permit may be subject to modification by the Superintendent during the term of
the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in §§
51.03 through
51.05 of this chapter are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall
be informed of any proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days prior
to the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit
shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(1992 Code, § 277:13)
§ 51.39 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standard shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by §
51.36 of this chapter, the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit
within 180 days after the promulgation of an applicable national categorical
pretreatment standard. In addition, the user with an existing wastewater
discharge permit shall submit to the Superintendent within 180 days after the
promulgation of an applicable national categorical pretreatment standard the
information required by §
51.36(B) of this chapter. If the information previously submitted in an
application is still current and adequate, only a letter from the user
certifying such is required.
(1992 Code, § 277:13)
§ 51.40 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or changed
operation without the approval of the Superintendent. Any succeeding owner or
user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
(1992 Code, § 277:13)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. Any user who is found to have violated an order of
the City Council or who has failed to comply with any provision of this
chapter, and the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, may
be fined not more than $1,000 for each offense. Each day on which a violation
shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. In
addition to the penalties provided herein, the city may recover reasonable
attorneys’ fees, court costs, court reporters’ fees and other expenses of
litigation by an appropriate action against the person found to have violated
this chapter or the order, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder.
(1992 Code, § 277:43)
   (B)   Costs of damage. Any user violating any of the provisions of this
chapter or who has a discharge which causes a deposit, obstruction, damage or
other impairment to the city’s wastewater treatment system shall become liable
to the city for any expense, loss or damage caused by the violation or
discharge. The Clerk-Treasurer may add to the user’s charges and fees the costs
assessed for any cleaning, repair or replacement work caused by the violation
or discharge. Any refusal to pay the assessed costs shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 277:45)
   (C)   Falsifying information. Any person who knowingly makes any false
statements, representation or certification in any application, record, report,
plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
chapter or wastewater discharge permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter, or intentionally violates any section of this chapter, shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment
for not more than 90 days, or by both.
(1992 Code, § 277:47)
CHAPTER 52: STORM WATER
Section
Storm Water Utility
   
52.01   General operation
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Storm water utility factors
   
52.04   Fee calculation and rate schedule
   
52.05   Fee adjustments
   
52.06   Exemptions
   
52.07   Payment of fee
   
52.08   Appeal of fee
   
52.09   Late payment; penalty
   
52.10   Certification of past due fees on taxes
Storm Water Management
   
52.25   General Provisions
   
52.26   Definitions
   
52.27   Scope and effect
   
52.28   Illicit discharge detection and elimination
   
52.29   Stormwater management plans
   
52.30   Stormwater management plan review procedure
   
52.31   Erosion and sediment control
   
52.32   Long-term maintenance for stormwater management facilities
   
52.33   Violations and enforcement
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fee Schedule, see
Ch. 35, App. A
   Industrial Wastewater Pretreatment, see
Ch. 51
   Sewers; Domestic and Industrial Wastewater, see
Ch. 50
   Utility Installers and Contractors; Public Works, see
Ch. 117
STORM WATER UTILITY
§ 52.01 GENERAL OPERATION.
   The city storm water system shall be operated as a public utility
(hereinafter, called the "Storm Water Utility"), pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, as
it may be amended from time to time, from which revenues will be derived
subject to the provisions of this subchapter and state statutes.
(1992 Code, § 280:00) (Ord. 1187, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 1664, passed 11-19-
2024)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). ERU are based on the effect of a typical
single family residential home’s impervious area footprint. The ERU is based on
one-third acre.
   MONTHLY STORM WATER UTILITY REVENUE. The estimated monthly expenditures for
planning and inventories, capital expenditures, personnel and equipment and
operation of the storm water utility, in accordance with established city
policy.
   STORM WATER UTILITY FEE. The monthly charge developed for each parcel of
land.
   UTILITY FACTOR. The ratio of run-off volume, in inches, for a particular
land use, to the run-off volume, in inches, for an average single-family
residence, assuming a two-inch rainfall and Natural Resources Conservation
Services (NRCS) “Type B” soil conditions.
(1992 Code, § 280:05) (Ord. 1187, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 1527, passed 8-18-2015;
Ord. 1664, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 52.03 STORM WATER UTILITY FACTORS.
   (A)   The storm water management fee shall be determined by first
determining the percentage of total run-off in the city which is attributed to
single-family residential property. The fee per acre for single-family
residential is computed by computing the product of the run-off percentage and
the monthly storm water utility revenue, divided by the estimated total acres
of single-family residential land use in the city. The per-acre fee for all
other individual parcels shall be defined as the product of the single-family
residential per-acre fee, the appropriate utility factor and the total acreage
of the parcel. Single-family residential parcels shall be assessed on a per
household basis. All multi- family residential, townhome, and mobile home
classifications with individual meters shall be billed at 80% of the current
ERU. All multi-family residential, townhome, and mobile home classifications
without individual meters shall be billed based on the above equation, derived
from the table below.
Classification Land Use                  Intensity Factor % Impervious Assumed
              Single family residential 1                 
2              Townhomes                 0.8               
3              Multi-family residential  1.5               
4              Low-density commercial    2.0              60%
5              High-density commercial   2.8              85%
6              Low-density industrial    2.1              63%
7              High-density industrial   2.4              72%
8              Mobile homes              1.5              45%
9              Churches/institutions/    2.4              72%
               schoo ls
 
   (B)   The city will regularly review classifications of parcels and make
adjustments to individual parcel classifications as necessary.
(1992 Code, § 280:10) (Ord. 1187, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 1527, passed 8-18-2015;
Ord. 1534, passed 12-15-2015; Ord. 1664, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 52.04 FEE CALCULATION AND RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Rates. The monthly storm water utility rate per ERU is established as
follows:
 
Year Rate
2025 $5.14
2026 $5.68
2027 $6.27
2028 $6.92
2029 $7.64
 
   (B)   Single-family residential fee. The monthly stormwater utility fee for
a single-family residential lot is equal to one ERU.
   (C)   Non-residential fee. Non-residential fee is calculated as follows:
Monthly fee = ERU x intensity factor x current rate.
   (D)   Rates shall be effective January 1 of the given year.
(Ord. 1664, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 52.05 FEE ADJUSTMENTS.
   The Council may adopt policies, by resolution, for adjustment of the storm
water management fees. Information to justify a fee adjustment must be supplied
by the property owner. Such adjustments of fees shall not be retroactive.
(1992 Code, § 280:15) (Ord. 1187, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 1527, passed 8-18-2015;
Ord. 1664, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 52.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following land uses are exempt from the storm water management fee:
   (A)   Public road right-of-way;
   (B)   Lakes, streams and other bodies of water;
   (C)   Wetlands of the city;
   (D)   Agricultural land;
   (E)   Undeveloped property;
   (F)   Platted, un-developed residential lots;
   (G)   Cemeteries;
   (H)   Golf courses; and
   (I)   Railroads.
(1992 Code, § 280:20) (Ord. 1187, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 1527, passed 8-18-2015;
Ord. 1664, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 52.07 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   (A)   Storm water utility fees shall be billed to the property owner.
   (B)   The fee shall be due and payable with the same terms as sanitary sewer
utility bills.
   (C)   Any prepayment or overpayment of charges shall be retained by the city
and applied against subsequent fees.
(1992 Code, § 280:25) (Ord. 1187, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 1664, passed 11-19-
2024)
§ 52.08 APPEAL OF FEE.
   If a property owner or person responsible for paying the storm water
management fee believes that a particular assigned fee is incorrect, such
person may request that the fee be recomputed.
(1992 Code, § 280:30) (Ord. 1187, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 1664, passed 11-19-
2024)
§ 52.09 LATE PAYMENT; PENALTY.
   Each billing for storm water utility fees not paid when due shall incur a
penalty charge of 5% of the amount past due for unpaid fees up to $500 and 2%
of such fees over $500.
(1992 Code, § 280:35) (Ord. 1187, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 1664, passed 11-19-
2024)
§ 52.10 CERTIFICATION OF PAST DUE FEES ON TAXES.
   (A)   If three consecutive storm water utility fees have not been paid when
due, then a penalty as set forth in §
52.09 of this chapter shall be added to the amount due.
   (B)   Any such past due fees may then be certified to the County Auditor for
collection with real estate taxed on the following year pursuant to Minn. Stat.
§ 444.075, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   In addition, the city shall also have the right to bring a civil
action or to take other legal remedies to collect unpaid fees.
(1992 Code, § 280:40) (Ord. 1187, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 1664, passed 11-19-
2024)
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
§ 52.25 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standards and
requirements for stormwater conveyance, treatment and discharge within the
city; erosion and sediment control measures to be taken during the development
of and alterations to lands within the city; and regulation of non-stormwater
discharges to the city municipal separate storm sewer system (herein referred
to as “MS4”). The purpose of this subchapter is to protect public health,
safety and general welfare, property and the environment, and administer and
implement stormwater best management practices (BMPs) as required by Federal
(United States Environmental Protection Agency) and state (Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency) laws and regulations.
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapters are:
      (1)   To maintain compliance with the city's stormwater pollution
prevention program (SWPPP).
      (2)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants and prohibit illicit
connections and discharges to the city's MS4.
      (3)   To regulate land disturbing activity, installation, operations,
maintenance and replacement of the stormwater system, and protect and prevent
the discharge of sediment into public and/or private lands, public
infrastructure, wetlands and waters of the state.
      (4)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspections,
monitoring and enforcement procedures necessary to comply with this subchapter.
      (5)   To establish requirements for management of site specific
stormwater discharge rates, volumes, and water quality.
(Ord. 1519, passed 3-3-2015)
§ 52.26 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, the words or phrases used in this
subchapter shall have the same meaning as they have in common usage. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number. The words “shall” and “must”
are always mandatory and not merely directive.
   APPLICANT. Any person or entity that applies for a building permit,
subdivision approval, or a permit to allow land disturbing activities.
Applicant also means that person's agents, employees, and others acting under
this person's direction.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Erosion and sediment control and water
quality management practices that are the most effective and practicable means
of controlling, preventing, and minimizing the degradation of surface water,
including avoidance of impacts, prohibitions of practices, general housekeeping
practices, pollution prevention and educational practices, operation and
maintenance procedures, and other applicable management practices.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. A disturbance to the land resulting in a change in
the topography, existing soil cover (both vegetative and non-vegetative), or
the existing soil topography.
   COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A contiguous area where multiple
separate and distinct land disturbing activities may take place at different
times, on different schedules, but under one proposed plan of development. One
plan is broadly defined to include design, permit application, advertisement,
or physical demarcation indicating that land disturbing activity may occur.
   DEVELOPER. A person, firm, corporation, sole proprietorship, partnership,
state agency, or political subdivision thereof engaged in a land disturbance
activity.
   DISCHARGE. Any release, conveyance, channeling runoff, or drainage of
stormwater including snow melt, from a construction site.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL. The best management procedures, techniques,
and methods to control soil erosion and sedimentation as officially adopted by
either the state, county, city or local watershed group, whichever is more
stringent.
   FINAL SITE SURVEY. Site survey includes final topographic contours with
sufficient survey shots to adequately show constructed drainage patterns, spot
elevations of all structures, elevations of lot corners, and all specific
survey points for structural stormwater BMPs and entire stormwater system.
   FINAL STABILIZATION. All soil disturbing activities at the site have been
completed, and all soils are stabilized by intended uniform perennial
vegetative cover with a density of 70% over the entire pervious surface area,
or other equivalent means necessary to prevent soil failure under erosive
conditions as well as the following conditions:
      (a)   All drainage ditches, constructed to drain water from the site
after construction is complete, have been stabilized.
      (b)   All temporary erosion prevention and sediment control BMP's have
been removed from the site.
      (c)   All existing and/or new conveyances and permanent stormwater
treatment systems, affected by construction activity, restored to original
design, capacity, and function.
   FULLY RECONSTRUCTED. Any areas where impervious surfaces have been removed
down to the underlying soils. Activities such as structure renovation, mill and
overlay projects, and other pavement rehabilitation projects that do not expose
the underlying soils beneath the structure, pavement,  or activity are not
considered fully reconstructed. Maintenance activities such as catch basin
repair/replacement, utility repair/replacement, pipe repair/replacement,
lighting, and pedestrian ramp improvements are not considered fully
reconstructed.
   GRADING/ EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PERMIT. A permit issued by the city
for the control of drainage, erosion, sedimentation, and other pollutants
during land disturbing activities.
   GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE. A wide array of practices at multiple scales that
manage wet weather and maintains or restores natural hydrology through
infiltration, evapotranspiration, or harvesting and using stormwater. On a
regional scale, green infrastructure is the preservation or restoration of
natural landscape features, such as forests, floodplains and wetlands, coupled
with policies such as infill and redevelopment that reduce the overall
imperviousness in a watershed. On a local scale, green infrastructure consists
of the site and neighborhood specific practices such as bioretention, trees,
green roofs, permeable pavement, and cisterns.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any material, substance, waste or combination thereof,
which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or
infectious characteristics may cause and/or significantly contribute to, a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property, or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed, or
otherwise managed.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drain system
including, but not limited to, any conveyance which allows any non-storm water
discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the
storm drain system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor
drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection has been
previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency
or, any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use
to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a municipal separate storm sewer system
that is not composed entirely of stormwater except discharges pursuant to a
NPDES permit and discharges exempt as outlined in §
52.28.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A constructed hard surface that either prevents or
limits the entry of water into the soil, and causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow. Including but
not limited to gravel, asphalt, concrete, brick, stone, and rooftops.
   LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. Any activity that results in a change or
alteration of the existing ground cover (both vegetative and non-vegetative)
and/or the existing soil topography. Land disturbing activities include, but
are not limited to, development, redevelopment, demolition, excavating,
grading, clearing, filling, stockpiling, hauling, construction, reconstruction,
and borrow pits.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A conveyance or system of
conveyances including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains:
      (a)   Owned and operated by the city, town, county, district,
association, or other public body, created by or pursuant to state law, having
jurisdiction over disposal of sewage, industrial wastes, stormwater, or other
wastes, including special districts under state law such as a sewer district,
flood control district, or drainage district or similar entity, or an Indian
tribe or an authorized Indian tribe organization, or a designated and approved
management agency under Section 208 of the Federal Clean Water Act, United
States Code, Title 33, Section 1288, that discharges into waters of the state;
      (b)   Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
      (c)   That is not combined sewer; and
      (d)   That is not part of a publicly owned treatment works as defined in
40 CFR § 122.2.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by the USEPA (or by a State under authority delegated
by the USEPA) that authorizes discharges to water of the United States, as
defined by the Federal Clean Water Act.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT. All construction activity that is not defined as
redevelopment.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the stormwater system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
   OWNER(S). A person, partnership, firm, association, public or quasi-public
corporation, private corporation, or a combination of, with a legal, equitable
interest, or leasehold in the parcel of record.
   PARCEL OF RECORD. A tract, plot, lot, and/or portion of subdivision or other
parcel of land, intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of transfer of ownership, possession, or for building development.
   PERMITTEE. A person issued a grading/ erosion and sediment control permit by
the city.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking areas.
   RECEIVING WATER. Any lake, river, stream, or wetland that receives
stormwater discharges from an MS4.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Any construction activity where, prior to the start of
construction, the areas to be disturbed have 15% or more of impervious surface
(s).
   SEDIMENT. The product of an erosion process; solid material both mineral and
organic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved by
water, wind, or ice, and has come to rest on the earth's surface either above
or below water level.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. A joint grading and stormwater pollution
prevention plan that is a document containing the requirements of §
52.29, that when implemented will decrease soil erosion on a parcel of land,
minimize pollution, and promote effective drainage.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan developed to identify
the sources of pollution that affect the quality of stormwater discharges from
a site and to describe and ensure the implementation of practices to prevent or
reduce pollutants in stormwater discharge.
   STRUCTURE. Anything manufactured, constructed or erected which is normally
attached to or positioned on land, including portable structures, earthen
structures, roads, parking lots, and paved storage areas.
   STRUCTURAL STORMWATER BMP'S. Stationary and permanent BMP’s designed,
constructed, and operated to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants in
stormwater.
   SUBDIVISION. Any tract of land divided into building lots for private,
public, commercial, industrial, etc. development. Minn. Rule 6120.2500, Subpart
17 defines subdivision as land that is divided for the purpose of sale, rent,
or lease, including planned unit development.
   SURFACE WATER(S). All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, wetlands, reservoirs,
springs, rivers, drainage systems, waterways, watercourses, and irrigation
systems whether natural or artificial, public or private, except that surface
waters do not include treatment basins or ponds that were constructed from
upland.
   UNDERLYING SOILS. Any natural in-situ or fill soils that are not a man-made
gradation.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions which
is discharged into or permitted to enter the city's wastewater treatment
system.
   WATERCOURSE. Any ditch, stream, creek, or other defined channel intended for
the conveyance of water, runoff, groundwater discharge, or similar hydraulic or
hydrologic purpose.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof (Minn. Stat. § 115.01,
Subd. 22).
   WETLANDS. As defined by the Wetland Conservation Act, as amended from time
to time, and Steele County.
(Ord. 1519, passed 3-3-2015; Ord. 1638, passed 9-20-2022)
§ 52.27 SCOPE AND EFFECT.
   (A)   Applicability. 
      (1)   Every applicant for a building permit or subdivision approval must
submit a stormwater management plan to the Engineering Department. No building
permit, subdivision approval, or permit to allow land disturbing activities
shall be issued until approval of the stormwater management plan or a waiver of
the approval requirement has been obtained in strict conformance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   This subchapter shall apply to all water entering the city's
stormwater system generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless
exempted by the city.
   (B)   Erosion and sediment control exemptions. The provisions of this
subchapter do not apply to:
      (1)   Emergency work to protect life, limb, or property.
      (2)   Nursery, home gardening, and other agricultural practices that are
confined to private property and do not constitute an illicit discharge or
connection.
   (C)   Grading/ erosion and sediment control permit exemptions. The following
activities do not require a grading/ESC permit but are subject to conditions of
this subchapter:
      (1)   Land disturbing activities which disturb less than 5,000 square
feet;
      (2)   Federal, state, county MS4 and other projects where the city does
not have regulatory authority.
   (D)   Stormwater discharge exemptions. If not causing a public safety or
nuisance, or adversely affecting water and/or environmental quality, the
following shall not be considered prohibited discharges.
      (1)   Discharges from landscape irrigation, diverted stream flows, rising
groundwater, uncontaminated groundwater infiltration, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, discharges from potable water sources, foundation drains, air
conditioning condensation, irrigation water, springs, water from crawl space
sumps, footing drains, lawn watering, individual residential car washing, flows
from riparian habitat and wetlands, water main flushing. Discharges associated
with dye testing; verbal approval prior to testing is required.
      (2)    Discharges or flow from firefighting activities and other
discharges specified by the city as necessary to protect public health and
safety.
      (3)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharges
permitted under an NPDES Permit, waiver or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the
authority of the USEPA, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with
all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the stormwater system.
(Ord. 1519, passed 3-3-2015)
§ 52.28 ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION.
   (A)   Prohibited discharge and disposal. This section shall apply to both
actual and potential discharges.
      (1)   No person shall throw, drain or otherwise discharge, cause, or
allow others under its control to throw, drain, or otherwise discharge into the
city's MS4, any pollutants or waters containing any pollutants, other than
water wholly comprised of stormwater.
      (2)   No person shall throw, deposit, place, leave, keep or permit to be
thrown, placed, left, maintained, or kept any refuse, rubbish, garbage, pet
waste or any other discarded objects, articles, or accumulations in or on any
street, alley, sidewalk, storm drain, inlet, catch basin, drainage structure,
so that it might be or become a pollutant, except in containers, recycling
bags, or other lawfully established waste disposal facilities/containers.
      (3)   No person shall intentionally dispose of leaves, dirt, or other
landscape debris into a street, road, alley, catch basin, culvert, curb,
gutter, inlet, ditch, natural watercourse, flood control channel, canal, storm
drain and any other fabricated or natural conveyance.
      (4)   All stormwater system users, property owners, and occupants shall
provide adequate protective procedures and measures to prevent discharges of
any non-stormwater discharge to the city's MS4.
      (5)   All commercial, industrial, and institutional properties storing
salt shall store the salt undercover or indoors. All salt must be stored on an
impervious surface. Property owners shall implement best management practices
to reduce exposure when transferring material in designated salt storage areas.
   (B)   Reporting illicit discharges.
      (1)   Discharge of prohibited waste shall be reported to the water
quality specialist by the person(s) responsible for the discharge, or by the
owner or occupant of the premises where the discharge occurred, immediately
upon obtaining knowledge of the discharge.
      (2)   Such notification will not relieve users of liability for expense,
loss or damage to the stormwater system, or any fines imposed on the city under
any state or Federal law. The responsible person shall take immediate action as
is reasonably possible to minimize or abate the prohibited discharge.
      (3)   The responsible person shall send detailed written notification
describing the illicit discharge to the water quality specialist within seven
days of knowledge of the discharge. The letter shall include the following
information:
         (a)   Time and location of the discharge;
         (b)   Description of the discharge waste, including estimate of
pollutant concentrations;
         (c)   Time period and volume of discharge;
         (d)   Actions taken to correct or control the discharge; and
         (e)   A schedule of corrective measures to prevent further discharges.
   (C)   Prohibited connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the stormwater system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition includes, without limitations, previous illicit
connections regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or
practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection.
      (3)   It is a violation of this ordinance to connect a line conveying
non-stormwater, permanent or temporary, to the city's MS4 or allow these
connections to continue.
      (4)   Improper connections in violation of this ordinance must be
disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to an approved onsite wastewater
management system or upon approval, to the city's wastewater treatment system.
      (5)   Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in record
drawings, maps, or equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm system
shall be located by the owner or occupant of that property within 30 days upon
receipt of written notice from the city requiring that the location be
disclosed. Documentation shall be provided to the city including location of
drain or conveyance, identification as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other,
and the outfall location or point of entry into the city storm sewer, sanitary
sewer, or other point of discharge.
   (D)   Watercourse protection.
      (1)   Every person owning property which a watercourse passes, shall keep
and maintain that part of the watercourse within the property free of trash,
debris, yard waste, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles that would
pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water through the
watercourse.
      (2)   The owner shall maintain private structures within or adjacent to a
watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function, and physical integrity of the watercourse.
   (E)   Stormwater inspections. The city may conduct tests as necessary to
enforce this subchapter, and authorized representatives of the city may enter
any property in the manner provided by law for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, obtaining information or conducting surveys
or investigations to enforce this subchapter. At the direction of the City
Engineer, additional inspections due to noncompliance will be billed to the
permittee as outlined in the most current stormwater fee schedule in
Chapter 35, Appendix A.
   (F)   Discharge sampling. The city may require installation of monitoring
equipment. All sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained and in
proper operating condition by the discharger, at their expense. All devices
used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated, as specified
by equipment manufacturer, to ensure accuracy.
   (G)   Requirement of best management practices. Any owner responsible for
the premises that are, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be
required at the direction of the city to implement, at the owner's expense,
additional best management practices to prevent the further and/or future
discharge of pollutants to the city's MS4. In addition, any person discharging
to the MS4 in violation of this subchapter may have their MS4 access terminated
if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge.
   (H)   Industrial or land disturbing activity discharges. Any person subject
to an industrial or construction activity NPDES stormwater permit shall comply
with all provisions of such permit. Written proof of compliance may be required
prior to discharge to the city's MS4.
(Ord. 1519, passed 3-3-2015; Ord. 1638, passed 9-20-2022)
§ 52.29 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Application. A written application for stormwater management plan
approval, along with the proposed stormwater management plan, shall be filed
with the Engineering Department when applicable and shall include a statement
indicating the purpose for which the approval is requested and adequate
evidence showing that the proposed use will conform to the standards set forth
in this subchapter.
   (B)   Stormwater Management Plan Submission. Drawings, plans, and reports
together with information required in this section shall be submitted to the
Engineering Department when applicable and shall be accompanied by all
applicable fees. Paper copies shall be submitted if requested by the
Engineering Department. All submissions must be received and approved prior to
commence of any land disturbing activities.
   (C)   Stormwater management plan approval. No stormwater management plan
which fails to meet the standards contained in this section shall be approved.
   (D)   Conditions. A stormwater management plan may be approved subject to
compliance with conditions reasonable and necessary to ensure that the
requirements contained in this subchapter and requirements designated by the
City Engineering Department are met.
   (E)   Compliance with city management plans. All stormwater management plans
must be prepared in accordance with the city stormwater management plan (SWMP)
and the city's MS4 stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP), on file in the
Office of the City Engineer, as revised from time.
   (F)   Compliance with watershed management plans/groundwater management
plans/source water protection. Stormwater management plans shall be consistent
with adopted watershed management plans and groundwater management plans
prepared in accordance with Minn. Statutes §§ 103B.231 and 103B.255
respectively, and as approved by the Minnesota Board of Water and Soil
Resources and Minnesota Department of Health in accordance with state law.
   (G)   Engineering design checklist and standards. All stormwater management
plans must be prepared and conducted in accordance with the Engineering
Department design checklist and standards for stormwater design, on file in the
Office of the City Engineer, as revised from time to time. At a minimum the
following information is required to be contained in all stormwater management
plans:
      (1)   Proper identification of owner(s) and contractor(s);
      (2)    Description of construction activity;
      (3)   Existing site conditions;
      (4)   Site construction plan;
      (5)   Erosion and sediment control BMP's;
      (6)   Drainage and grading;
      (7)   Plan of final site conditions;
      (8)   Post construction stormwater management;
      (9)   Plan for long-term stormwater management including annual
maintenance plans and recorded agreements; and
      (10)   Models, methods, and calculations for site hydrology and
hydraulics including discharge rates, volume, and quality.
   (H)   Stormwater pollution prevention plan. All stormwater management plans
must be accompanied by a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and all
land disturbing activities shall be conducted in accordance with the most
recent Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) General NPDES/SDS Construction
Permit MN R100001 (CGP) and are subject to §
52.31.
   (I)   Easements. If a stormwater management plan involves direction of some
or all runoff, off the site, it shall be the responsibility of the owner to
obtain from adjacent property owner(s) any necessary easements or other
property interests concerning flowage of water.
   (J)   Post construction stormwater management.
      (1)   Design and calculations. Site design and calculations shall be
based on the following;
         (a)   All plans, whenever possible, shall be designed using the better
site design techniques and other pertinent information found in the most recent
Minnesota Stormwater Manual, which is available from the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency (MPCA) website at https://stormwater.pca.state.mn.us/.
         (b)   Discharge rates derived using the standard methods of the
natural resource conservation service as defined in the current Hydrology Guide
for Minnesota, HydroCAD, or other hydrologic/ hydraulic models included in the
Minnesota Stormwater Manual and subject to approval of the City Engineer.
         (c)   All calculations shall be made using National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration Atlas 14.
         (d)   All calculations and methods used to determine water quality and
volume treatment and/or control shall be determined by a licensed engineer and
is subject to approval by the City Engineer.
      (2)   Rate control. Any land disturbing or development activity that
results in one or more acres of land disturbances must meet the following;
         (a)   All stormwater management facilities necessary to manage
increased runoff so that the two-year, ten-year, and 100-year 24 hour storm
peak discharge rates existing before the proposed development shall not be
increased unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer. Applicant shall also
verify accelerated channel erosion will not occur as a result of the proposed
land disturbing or development activity.
         (b)   The applicant shall give highest preference to reducing the need
for stormwater management facilities by incorporating the use of natural
topography and green infrastructure.
      (3)   Water quality and volume control. For the proposed land disturbing
and development activity, all permanent structural best management practices
(BMPs) shall be installed in order to achieve the applicable minimum control
requirements as specified by the most current version of the NPDES/SDS
municipal separate storm sewer system permit. The applicant shall use any
combination of BMPs, with the highest preference given to green infrastructure
techniques and practices necessary to meet the following conditions in
divisions (J)(3)(a) through (c) below to the maximum extent practicable (MEP);
         (a)   Any project where the sum of the new impervious surfaces and the
fully reconstructed surfaces equals one or more acres shall provide treatment
for the calculated water quality volume.
         (b)   For non-linear projects, water quality volume must be calculated
as one inch times the sum of the new and the fully reconstructed surfaces.
         (c)   For linear projects the water quality volume must be calculated
as the larger of one inch times and the new impervious surface or one-half inch
times the sum of the new and fully reconstructed impervious surfaces.
         (d)   The minimum impervious area draining to BMPs providing required
water quality volume shall be equal to the sum of new and fully reconstructed
surfaces or to the maximum extent practicable as determined by the City
Engineer.
         (e)   Projects adding new impervious surfaces and/or fully
reconstructed surfaces will be considered in cumulative over the life of the
property. Land disturbance activity applicable to this requirement will be
determined with respect to all development or redevelopment that has occured
from the time of adoption.
   (K)   Limitations and restrictions. The use of infiltration techniques are
prohibited when the infiltration structural BMP will be constructed in the
following areas;
      (1)   Where industrial facilities are not authorized to infiltrate
industrial stormwater under an NPDES/SDS industrial stormwater permit.
      (2)   Where vehicle fueling and maintenance occurs.
      (3)   With less than three feet of separation distance from the bottom of
the infiltration system to the elevation of seasonally saturated soils or the
top of bedrock.
      (4)   Where high levels of contaminants in soil or groundwater will be
mobilized by the infiltrating stormwater.
         (a)   The use of infiltration techniques will be restricted, but may
be permitted if higher engineering review/testing ensures the practice will
perform properly, when the infiltration structural BMP will be constructed in
the following areas;
            1.   With predominately Hydrologic Soil Group D soils.
            2.   Within 1,000 feet up-gradient, or 100 feet down-gradient of
active karst features.
            3.   Within a Drinking Water Supply Management Area (DWSMA) as
defined in Minn. Rules 4720.5100, Subp.13.
            4.   Where soil infiltration rates are more than 8.3 inches per
hour.
   (L)   Mitigation provisions for linear projects. If the owner believes that
the entire water quality volume requirements cannot be met on the site of the
original construction activity, the owner must provide adequate documentation
to the city as support including attempts to acquire additional right-of-way or
other permission to provide treatment for the full water quality volume. The
owner must provide treatment for the water quality volume to the maximum extent
practicable. No further off-site mitigation is required.
      (1)   The owner of the construction activity is precluded from
infiltrating stormwater through a design system limitation described in
division (K) of this section; and
      (2)   The owner of the construction activity implements to maximum extent
practicable, volume reduction techniques, other than infiltration, on the site
of the original construction activity that reduces stormwater discharge volume,
but may not meet the requirements of post-construction stormwater management.
   (M)   Mitigation provisions. If the owner believes that the water quality
volume requirements cannot be met on the site of the original construction
activity, the owner must provide adequate documentation to the city as support.
Stormwater discharges that do not meet the water quality volume on the site of
the original construction activity must be met through mitigation. At the
city's discretion, off-site mitigation may be allowed. The owner must identify
locations where mitigation projects can be completed. The proposed mitigation
must meet the following;
      (1)   Mitigation project areas must be selected in the following order of
preference, in consultation and with approval by the city;
         (a)   Locations yielding benefits to the same receiving water that
receives runoff from the original construction activity.
         (b)   Locations within the same Department of Natural Resource (DNR)
catchment area as the original construction activity.
         (c)   Locations in the next adjacent DNR catchment up-stream.
         (d)   Locations anywhere within the city's jurisdiction.
      (2)   Mitigation projects must involve the creation of new structural
stormwater BMP’s, the retrofit of existing structural stormwater BMP’s, or the
use of properly designed regional structural stormwater BMP’s.
      (3)   Routine maintenance of existing structural stormwater BMP's is
required and cannot be used to meet mitigation requirements of this section.
      (4)   Mitigation projects must be completed within 24 months after the
start of the original construction activity.
      (5)   If the mitigation project is a private structural BMP and the city
is not responsible for long-term maintenance of the project, the city will
require written and recorded documentation of responsibility for maintenance.
      (6)   Payment in lieu of private mitigation projects, subject to city
approval, may be accepted and used for funding a public stormwater project. The
payment will be used to meet the water quality volume requirements outlined in
divisions (J) and (M) of this section.
(Ord. 1519, passed 3-3-2015; Ord. 1638, passed 9-20-2022)
§ 52.30 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Process.
      (1)   Subdivisions. Stormwater management plans shall be reviewed by the
Engineering Department and reviewed in accordance with the standards of §
52.29. Their findings shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission prior to
its approval of the final plat of the subdivision. Staff findings shall include
recommendation for approval; approval with conditions or modifications; or
denial based on submission of incomplete plans, failure to meet ordinance
provisions, or incompatibility with overall city drainage plans. Following
Planning Commission approval, the final plat with the stormwater management
plan shall be submitted with any recommendations and conditions to the City
Council at its next regular meeting.
      (2)   Building permits. Stormwater management plans shall be reviewed by
the Engineering Department for compliance with the standards of §
52.29. City staff shall contact the applicant or its agent on the review
findings and indicate approval; approval with certain conditions or
modifications; or denial based on submission of incomplete plans, failure to
meet ordinance provisions, or incompatibility with overall city drainage plans.
Upon approval of the stormwater management plans, the applicant or its agent
shall be notified of compliance. Building permits involving such non-exempted
land disturbance activities shall not be issued until such notice of compliance
is given. Construction of single family or two family dwellings must comply
with the approved stormwater pollution prevention plan.
      (3)   Land disturbing activities not requiring a building permit.
Stormwater management plans shall be reviewed by the Engineering Department for
compliance with the standards of §
52.29. City staff shall contact the applicant or its agent on the review
findings and indicate approval; approval with certain conditions or
modifications; or denial based on submission of incomplete plans, failure to
meet ordinance provisions, or incompatibility with overall city drainage plans.
Upon approval by the Engineering Department of the stormwater management plan,
the applicant or its agent shall be notified of compliance. Subject to any
other applicable statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, permits or other
such approvals for such non-exempted land disturbing activities shall be
issued.
   (B)   Appeal process. Applicants may appeal approval and denial decisions to
the City Council.
(Ord. 1519, passed 3-3-2015)
§ 52.31 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Land disturbing activities. All land use activities are subject to
this subchapter unless exempt as defined in §
52.26.
   (B)   Erosion and sediment control standards. All land disturbing activities
and stormwater pollution prevention plans (SWPPP) must be developed and
conducted in accordance with the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA)
general NPDES/SDS construction permit MN R100001 (CGP). At a minimum the SWPPP
is required to include:
      (1)   Perimeter erosion control devices, including but not limited to
silt fence, sediment logs, and mulch berms;
      (2)   Stockpile protection for temporary and permanent piles;
      (3)   Phased grading;
      (4)   Temporary and permanent stabilization;
      (5)   Storm drain inlet protection devices;
      (6)   Appropriately protected construction site entrance(s);
      (7)   Removal of all debris, sediment, and discharges from all impervious
surfaces, including adjacent public or private property;
      (8)   Sediment basins and flow diversions;
      (9)   Treatment of dewatering activity and basin draining prior to
discharge;
      (10)   All pollution prevention and management measures identified in
most recent CGP including spill reporting and clean-up;
      (11)   Inspections and Maintenance of all erosion and sediment control
BMP’s;
      (12)   Requirements for final stabilization; and
      (13)    Any other erosion and sediment control device as deemed necessary
by the Engineering Department.
   (C)   Grading/ erosion and sediment control permit. Prior to any land
disturbing activity, the owner and/or operator shall be required to obtain a
grading/ ESC permit.
      (1)   This permit does not replace, eliminate, or satisfy the need for
any other permits required by any other public or private entity.
      (2)   The following are required to obtain a grading/ erosion and
sediment control permit:
         (a)   All new single family residential construction; and
         (b)   Land disturbing activities of greater than or equal to 5,000
square feet.
   (D)   Permit fees. All applications for a grading/erosion and sediment
control permit shall be accompanied by the applicable fee. The fees shall be in
the amount duly established by the Council from time to time. The permit fee
schedule is listed the most current fee schedule adopted by resolution.
   (E)   Duration of coverage. Following approval of Engineering Department, a
grading/ ESC permit shall remain effective until one of the following occurs;
      (1)   Final stabilization. Final stabilization is achieved, a notice of
termination (NOT) has been filed with the Engineering Department, all
termination of coverage requirements are met and the city has issued the NOT;
or
      (2)   Time requirement reached. The grading/ ESC permit becomes void if
work does not begin with 180 calendar days of permit approval or is suspended
at any time for over 180 calendar days. If the permit becomes void, the permit
application process will begin anew.
      (3)   Extensions. Extensions may be granted upon requests received at
least 15 calendar days prior to permit becoming void.
   (F)   Change of coverage. Projects requiring a grading/ ESC permit where a
change of ownership for any portion of the site occurs;
      (1)   The original/current applicant shall provide a copy of the NOT/
transfer form and fact sheet to the new applicant.
      (2)   The original/current applicant shall provide the SWPPP, or
equivalent plan, to the new applicant that specifically addresses the remaining
construction activity. If the SWPPP or equivalent plan is not relevant, or the
new applicant wants to use a new plan, this must be submitted with the NOT/
transfer form to the Engineering Department.
      (3)   The new and current applicants shall work together to submit one
completed and signed NOT/transfer form to the Engineering Department, prior to
assuming operational control of the site, commencing work on their portion of
the site, or legal transfer/sale.
      (4)   It is the responsibility of the new permittee to ensure the SWPPP
meets all terms and conditions of this subchapter and their activities to not
render ineffective another party's erosion and sediment control BMP’s.
   (G)   Termination of coverage. A permittee wishing to terminate the grading/
ESC permit must complete the requirements of final stabilization and all
requirements (1) through (5) below of the parcel of record and submit a notice
of termination request to the Engineering Department.
      (1)   Compliance with the standards set forth in this subchapter is
required until the NOT is submitted and approved by the Engineering Department.
      (2)   As-built drawings for all stormwater structures and a final site
survey must be provided to the Engineering Department prior to issuance of
termination, unless otherwise determined by City Engineer. As-built shall be
submitted along with the certification form from the engineer of record. Single
family residential construction may be required to submit as-built drawings.
      (3)   For projects requiring an infiltration practice, the owner must
provide documentation that the infiltration facility performs as designed.
Accepted documentation includes:
         (a)   Time and date stamped photographs showing that the infiltration
facility drains dry within 48 hours after a natural precipitation event
approximately equivalent to the design storm.
         (b)   Time and date stamped photographs showing that the infiltration
facility drains dry within 48 hours after the practice is filled with water
from an alternative supply.
         (c)   Double-ring infiltrometer tests or other field tests approved by
the City Engineer.
      (4)   All fees have been paid to the city in full.
      (5)   A recorded stormwater facility maintenance easement and agreement
has been submitted to the Engineering Department.
   (H)   Site inspections. The city shall at all times have the right to enter
and inspect a property to determine compliance with this subchapter.
      (1)   Self-inspections. The permittee or their designee must make regular
inspections of all erosion and sediment control, the entire site, and receiving
water bodies at least once every seven days during active construction and
within 24 hours after a rainfall greater than 0.5 inches in 24 hours. Records
of these inspections shall be kept for a minimum of three years and made
readily available upon request made by the city.
      (2)   City inspections. The City Engineer and/or their designee shall
make inspections and either approve that portion of the completed work or
notify the permittee where work is non-compliant. The grading/ erosion and
sediment control permit fee shall cover the cost of routine and follow-up
inspections with compliant results. Additional inspections due to noncompliance
will be billed to the permittee, at the direction of the City Engineer, as
outlined in the most current stormwater fee schedule in
Chapter 35, Appendix A.
(Ord. 1519, passed 3-3-2015; Ord. 1638, passed 9-20-2022)
§ 52.32 LONG-TERM MAINTENANCE FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Recorded maintenance agreement. Owners of private structural
stormwater facilities shall be required to submit and comply with the city's
stormwater facility maintenance agreement, a copy of which is on file in the
Office of the City Engineer.
   (B)   Responsibility to maintain and inspect. A minimum annual inspection of
the private facility shall be conducted and documented by the owner and/or
operator. Documentation of inspections shall be kept for a minimum of five
years and made readily available upon request by the city. All private
stormwater facilities shall be maintained to the original approved design and
treatment effectiveness.
   (C)   Treatment integrity and effectiveness. If site configurations or
structural stormwater BMP’s change, causing decreased effectiveness, new or
improved BMP’s must be implemented to meet the requirements of this subchapter
as approved on the original stormwater management plan.
   (D)   City inspections. By accepting a permit under this subchapter, the
owner grants to the city a public easement for right of entry and access for
inspection and/or maintenance of private stormwater systems. If upon
inspection, the Engineering Department finds that any private stormwater
management facilities require maintenance, repair, or replacement, but such
deficiencies do not create a critical or imminent threat to adjacent
properties, the environment, or other stormwater facilities, the following
procedures apply;
      (1)    The owner(s) responsible for the continued operation of the
facilities shall be given written notice of the findings, what actions are
required to correct the situation, and a timetable by which such activities
must be completed.
      (2)   Such parties shall have 15 calendar days to reply to the
Engineering Department indicating their response to the notice.
      (3)   If upon inspection it is determined by the Engineering Department
the deficiencies create a critical or imminent threat to public health, public
safety, adjacent properties, the environment, or other stormwater facilities,
the city will require the deficiencies to be corrected within 24 hours or such
other timeline specified by the City Engineer. Such notice will be served in
person, by first class mail, and posting on the site of the deficiency.
      (4)   If the owner(s) do not complete the necessary activities stipulated
by the Engineering Department or respond to the written notice, the City
Council, after notice and public hearing, may order that such activities are
completed by the city or its designated contractor and that all costs
associated with such activities, including all administrative costs, be
certified by the City Engineer to the City Council and assessed against the
property. In the event the deficiency is determined to be an immediate danger,
as outlined in this division (D)(3), the city will abate the danger as outlined
in §
52.33(C).
      (5)   The amount charged shall be a lien upon the properties benefiting
from and utilizing the stormwater facilities maintained, repaired or replaced
and shall be added to, and become, and form part of the taxes next to be
assessed and levied upon such properties, and the Council shall, by appropriate
resolution, assess the costs above mentioned against said properties, and
certify the same to the County Auditor of Steele County, Minnesota. The same
shall be collected and enforced in the same manner as the collection of real
estate taxes.
(Ord. 1519, passed 3-3-2015)
§ 52.33 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation enforcement. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate
any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this
subchapter. Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions
of this subchapter, may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this
subchapter or may be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in a manner
provided by law.
   (B)   Notification by city. The city shall notify the owner or permittee of
the failure of compliance with this subchapter. The initial contact will be by
phone. Forty-eight hours after notification by the city or 72 hours after the
failure of compliance, the city, at its discretion, may begin corrective work
and/or take other enforcement actions outlined in this section.
   (C)   Emergency action. In the event the violation constitutes an immediate
danger to public health, safety, or welfare, the city is authorized to enter
the property, without prior notice, to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property, at the owner's expense. The
city will pursue measures to recover all costs associated with restoration.
   (D)   Right of entry and inspection. The owner(s) shall allow the city and
its authorized representatives, upon presentation of credentials to:
      (1)   Enter upon a permitted site or property serviced by the city's
stormwater system for the purpose of inspection;
      (2)   Bring equipment upon the permitted site as is necessary to conduct
sampling, surveys and/or investigations;
      (3)   Examine and copy any books, papers, records, or memoranda during
such inspection;
      (4)   Inspect the stormwater pollution control measures; and
      (5)   Sample and monitor any items or activities pertaining to stormwater
pollution control measures.
   (E)   Stop work order. The City Engineer may issue an order to stop all and
any work related to the construction activity, potential or actual illicit
discharge, and any other activity causing nuisance conditions in the event of
any of the following:
      (1)   Violation of any provision(s) this subchapter;
      (2)   Noncompliance of any term(s) of an issued grading/ ESC permit;
      (3)   Failure to obtain a grading/ ESC permit; and
      (4)   The grading/ ESC permit was issued based on incorrect/ false
information.
   (F)   Permit suspension or revocation. If the permittee refuses or fails to
cease work after the stop work order, the city shall suspend or revoke the
grading/ESC permit.
   (G)   Recovery of costs. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
subchapter shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage. If
payment is not made within 30 calendar days after costs are incurred by the
city, then the city may assess the remaining amount against the property.
   (H)   Nuisance. A violation of this subchapter constitutes a public nuisance
under this city code.
   (I)   Legal remedies nonexclusive.  Nothing in this section shall be
construed to limit the city's other available legal remedies for any violation
of this subchapter including criminal, civil, injunctive or other remedies.
   (J)   Penalties. Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of
this subchapter shall be guilty of a penal offense and upon conviction thereof,
subject to the penalties set forth in §
10.99 of the city code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (K)   Falsifying information. Any person who knowingly makes false
statements, representation or certification in any application, record, report,
plan, or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant of this
subchapter, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this subchapter, shall upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment
not more than 90 days or both.
(Ord. 1519, passed 3-3-2015)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
52.25 through 52.35 of this chapter shall be guilty of a penal offense and,
upon conviction thereof, subject to the penalties set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(1992 Code, § 317:07) (Ord. 1426, passed 3-18-2008)
CHAPTER 53: DISCONNECTION
Section
   
53.01   Disconnection for late payment
§ 53.01 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a
disconnection notice will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill
is not paid within 14 days of the mailing of the first bill, service will be
discontinued for nonpayment on the twenty-first day after the disconnection
mailing.
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in
writing his complaint and contentions to the city official in charge of utility
billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer's service
not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination
of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $35 plus tax.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   PARADES
      
71.   RECREATIONAL AND TOY VEHICLES
      
72.   PARKING RULES GENERALLY
      
73.   PARKING ASSESSMENT DISTRICT
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: PARADES
Section
   
70.01   Purpose
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Permit required
   
70.04   Application
   
70.05   Applicant’s responsibilities
   
70.06   Public conduct during parade
§ 70.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate, protect and promote the public
health, safety and general welfare of the people of the city by regulating the
conduct of parades in the city.
(1992 Code, § 705:00)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or rallies or demonstrations, or any similar display in or upon
any street, park or other outdoor places owned or under the control of the
city, which acts in some way to impede or affect the free and unobstructed flow
of vehicular traffic.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
(1992 Code, § 705:05)
§ 70.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or start any parade in
the city, unless a parade permit shall have been obtained.
(1992 Code, § 705:10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a parade permit shall be made to the City Clerk-
Treasurer on forms provided for such application, not less than 30 days before
the date on which it is proposed to conduct the parade. The application shall
be accompanied by the proper fee and a certificate of liability insurance in an
amount of no less than $1,000,000 combined single limit or equivalent, and the
city shall be a named additional insured. The policy shall specify that there
is no exclusion for claims brought by participants.
   (B)   The application shall set forth the following information and shall be
signed by the applicant:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads of such
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles
which, will constitute such parade; the type of animals and description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when such parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for such parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for such permit shall file
with the Chief of Police a communication in writing from the person proposing
to hold the parade, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his or
her behalf;
      (12)   The purpose of the parade; and
      (13)   Any additional information which the City Council shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be
issued.
   (C)   The application shall be forwarded to the Chief of Police for his or
her comment on date of parade, time of parade, route of parade and any
extraordinary problems or cost which he or she foresees for the Police
Department from the conduct of the parade. Upon return of the application from
the Chief of Police, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall present the application and
comments of the Chief of Police to the City Council for its consideration.
(1992 Code, § 705:15)
§ 70.05 APPLICANT’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to make all necessary
arrangements with the State Department of Transportation if state or United
States trunk highways are to be used, and the County Highway Department if
county highways are to be used; to make all necessary arrangements for blocking
or barricading of streets, alleys, assembly and dispersal areas and other ways
of access to the proposed parade route; to arrange with the Chief of Police for
policing of the route, assembly and dispersal areas and points of access to the
parade route; to make all arrangements for ambulance and other necessary
medical services; to arrange for clean up and trash removal of litter in and
along the parade route and in assembly and dispersal areas.
(1992 Code, § 705:20)
§ 70.06 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADE.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct or impede,
or interfere with, any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of any vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are
in motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade, nor through parade
assembly and dispersal areas, except as directed and controlled by police or
parade officials.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police shall have the authority,
when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles
along a highway or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade.
The Chief of Police shall cause to be posted signs to such effect, and it shall
be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation
thereof.
(1992 Code, § 705:25) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL AND TOY VEHICLES
Section
Storage and Parking of Recreational Vehicles in Residential Districts
   
71.001   Purpose
   
71.002   Definitions
   
71.003   Restrictions; applicability; exemptions
   
71.004   Restrictions on parking and storage
   
71.005   Variances; not transferrable; revocation
   
71.006   Review Board; hearing and decision; notice
   
71.007   Appeal
   
71.008   Hearing by Council
Motorcycles and Motorscooters
   
71.020   State license required
   
71.021   Regulations for operation
Snowmobiles
   
71.035   Definitions
   
71.036   Application of other laws
   
71.037   Use regulation
   
71.038   Park and recreation programs
   
71.039   Equipment required
   
71.040   Parking with motor running
Bicycles
   
71.055   Traffic laws apply
   
71.056   Equipment on bicycle
   
71.057   Locking parked bicycle
   
71.058   Bicycle riding equipment
   
71.059   Speed
   
71.060   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
71.061   Signals required
   
71.062   Carrying articles
   
71.063   Trick riding
   
71.064   Passengers on bicycle
   
71.065   Riding on sidewalks in Business District
   
71.066   Parking and parking spaces
   
71.067   Entering, emerging from alley or driveway
   
71.068   Bicycle lanes and paths
   
71.069   Where to ride
   
71.070   Riding abreast
   
71.071   Hitching rides
   
71.072   Effect of regulations
   
71.073   Juvenile bicycle law offender
Rollerskates and Skateboards
   
71.085   Definitions
   
71.086   Use regulations
 
   
71.999   Penalty
STORAGE AND PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 71.001 PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that the use and possession of recreational vehicles
are an important factor in the lives of a substantial number of residents of
the city. The City Council finds that improperly stored recreational vehicles
can affect public health and safety, property values and the reasonable use and
enjoyment of neighboring properties. The City Council establishes these
regulations as a means to balance the interests of the owners of recreational
vehicles, adjacent residents and the public.
(1992 Code, § 702:00) (Ord. 1379, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 71.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A general term for any vehicular unit designed or
used for recreational purposes and includes the following.
         (a)   BOAT TRAILER. A vehicle without its own power, designed to
transport a recreational watercraft and which is eligible to be licensed or
registered and insured for highway use. A recreational watercraft, when mounted
upon a BOAT TRAILER, and its towing vehicle, when parked or stored, shall be
considered one unit.
         (b)   CAMPER TRAILER. A folding or collapsible vehicular structure,
without its own power, designed as a temporary living quarters for travel,
camping, recreation and vacation use, and eligible to be licensed or registered
and insured for highway use.
         (c)   MOTOR HOME. A vehicular unit built on or as a part of a self-
propelled motor vehicle chassis, primarily designed to provide temporary living
quarters for travel, camping, recreation and vacation use, and which is
eligible to be licensed or registered and insured for highway use.
         (d)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A rigid vehicular structure, without its own
power, designated as a temporary dwelling for travel, camping, recreation and
vacation use, eligible to be licensed or registered and insured for highway use
and which, when equipped for the road, has a body width of not more than eight
feet.
         (e)   TRUCK CAMPER. A portable structure, without its own power,
designed to be transported on a power vehicle as a temporary dwelling for
travel, camping, recreation and vacation use and which, in combination with the
carrying vehicle, is eligible to be licensed or registered and insured for
highway use.
         (f)   UTILITY TRAILER. A vehicle, without its own power, designed or
used for the transportation of automobiles, motorcycles, snowmobiles, ice
fishing houses, horse or other livestock or all other types of motor vehicles,
goods or materials, and which trailer is eligible to be licensed or registered
and insured for highway use. Snowmobiles, when mounted upon a snowmobile
trailer, and its towing vehicle, when parked or stored, shall be considered one
unit.
         SURFACED. The area intended to be utilized for parking space shall be
surfaced with material suitable to control dust and drainage and includes
concrete, asphalt and crushed rock.
   (B)   The provisions of Ord. 827, relating to definitions of terms are
adopted and incorporated herein by reference to the extent not inconsistent
with the definitions herein.
(1992 Code, § 702:05) (Ord. 1379, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 71.003 RESTRICTIONS; APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles 22 feet in length or less are exempt from the
restrictions of §
71.004 (D) of this chapter.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles in excess of 22 feet in length to and including
40 feet in length are subject to the restrictions of §
71.004 of this chapter.
   (C)   Recreational vehicles in excess of 40 feet are not permitted within a
residential district, except as provided in §
71.005(A) of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 702:10) (Ord. 1379, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 71.004 RESTRICTIONS ON PARKING AND STORAGE.
   No recreational vehicle subject to §
71.003 of this chapter shall be parked or stored on a single lot in a
residential district, except as follows:
   (A)   Inside any enclosed structure which otherwise conforms to the zoning
requirements of the particular district where located;
   (B)   Outside in the rear yard not within three feet of any property line;
   (C)   Outside in the side yard nearest the location of the driveway, upon a
surfaced parking space, not within three feet of any property line. “Side yard”
does not include any portion of the front yard. No parking or storage of a
recreational vehicle shall be permitted in a side yard adjacent to a public
street;
   (D)   From April 1 through November 15, one recreational vehicle may be
parked outside, within the required front yard setback on a surfaced driveway
or upon one open, surfaced space located to the side of the driveway away from
the principal use; provided:
      (1)   Inside parking is not possible;
      (2)   The recreational vehicle is parked perpendicular to the front
roadway and is parked at least 15 feet from the back of the curb;
      (3)   The recreational vehicle does not prevent persons from having a
clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection, whether it is an
intersection of two streets or the intersection of an alley with another alley
or street, or traffic entering or departing from a driveway; and
      (4)   No recreational vehicle shall be permitted within any yard area on
a corner lot which will impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet
and eight feet above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets within
20 feet of the street intersecting right-of-way lines.
   (E)   From November 16 through March 30, a recreational vehicle is
temporarily permitted in the front yard setback on a surfaced driveway or upon
one open surface space located to the side of the driveway away from the
principal use for the purposes of loading or unloading or to accommodate guests
visiting in a recreational vehicle; provided, it is not parked for a period
exceeding 48 hours in any consecutive seven-day period;
   (F)   Snowmobile trailers. The date restrictions set forth in division (D)
above shall not apply to snowmobile trailers. During the winter season, one
snowmobile trailer may be parked outside, within the required front yard
setback on a surfaced driveway or upon one open, surfaced space located to the
side of the driveway away from the principal use; provided, the conditions in
divisions (D)(1) through (D)(4) above are met;
   (G)   Truck camper exception. A truck camper of the type defined in Minn.
Stat. § 168.011, Subd. 25(d), as it may be amended from time to time, and not
registered as a recreational vehicle and used as the owner’s passenger vehicle
is not subject to the date restrictions set forth in division (D) above;
   (H)   Such recreational vehicle shall have a current license and
registration;
   (I)   Such recreational vehicle shall be in operable condition and shall be
maintained in a clean, well-kept state so as not to detract from the appearance
of the surrounding area. No recreational vehicle which is in a state of visible
external disrepair shall be parked or stored in a residential district;
   (J)   No more than two recreational vehicles may be parked or stored on the
premises in a residential district and no more than one is permitted in the
front yard setback as provided in division (D) above;
   (K)   Neither the recreational vehicle, nor any attachments thereto,
including hitches or other equipment may extend over the sidewalk or in any
part of the public right-of-way;
   (L)   At no time shall such parked or stored recreational vehicle be
occupied or used for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes, except as
provided hereafter in division (M) below; and
   (M)   It shall be lawful for only non-paying guests at a residence in a
Residential District to occupy one recreational vehicle, parked or stored
subject to the provisions of this section, for sleeping purposes only for a
period not exceeding 72 consecutive hours. The total number of days during
which a recreational vehicle may be occupied under this division (M) shall not
exceed 14 days in any calendar year.
(1992 Code, § 702:15) (Ord. 1379, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 71.005 VARIANCES; NOT TRANSFERRABLE; REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Variance system established. The restrictions set out in §§
71.003 and
71.004 of this chapter are necessary for the peace, health, safety and welfare
of the citizens of the city. It is recognized that there are so many kinds of
recreational vehicles, and so many shapes and sizes of lots and land parcels
within the city, that no matter what restrictions are placed upon their outdoor
parking and storage, hardships will result to some owners of recreational
vehicles and nuisances will result to some non-owners. In an attempt to avoid
such hardships and nuisances, this variance system is established.
      (2)   Application. Any person desiring to locate a vehicle in a location
not permitted by §§
71.003 and
71.004 of this chapter may file a petition for a variance with the office of
the City Administrator or his or her designee (“City Administrator”) on a form
provided by the City Administrator’s office. The applicant shall pay a non-
refundable fee established from time to time by the City Council to cover
administrative costs and costs of the hearing as set forth in §
71.006 of this chapter.
         (a)   No variances shall be given or allowed for more than the number
of vehicles allowed by §
71.004(J) of this chapter.
         (b)   A variance from the requirement in §
71.004(D)(2) of this chapter that the recreational vehicle be parked at least
15 feet from the back of the curb may be considered where the recreational
vehicle can be parked not less than ten feet from the back of the curb and all
of the following conditions are met:
            1.   The recreational vehicle must be 40 feet or less in length;
            2.   Access to parking in the rear yard or side yard is not
available because of lot size only. If the rear yard access is caused by trees
or fences or similar obstructions, the obstructions shall be eliminated or
modified;
            3.   The owners on both sides of the applicant’s residence must
give permission in writing. If owners later decide they have a visibility
problem, they will have the right to withdraw their permission and the permit
would be revoked. If the adjoining property is owned by joint tenants or
tenants in common, all owners must sign the consent;
            4.   Parking ten feet from the curb shall not be allowed if the
driveway is less than 100 feet from the corner of an intersection; and
            5.   Neither the recreational vehicle nor any attachments thereto
including hitches or other equipment may extend over the sidewalk or in any
part of the public right-of-way.
         (c)   All other variances from the requirements of this subchapter
shall be decided by the Review Board as set forth in §
71.006 of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 702:20)
   (B)   Variance not transferable; exception. Each variance shall be limited
and restricted to the stated person, vehicle and property location and may not
be transferred to any other person, or be used for any other vehicle or
property location; provided, however, a variance may be transferred to another
vehicle provided such vehicle is not longer, wider, taller or older than the
vehicle for which the variance was initially granted.
(1992 Code, § 702:40)
   (C)   Revocation of variance. Each variance granted may be revoked by the
city for failure of the recipient to comply fully and continually with the
stated conditions or for any violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 702:45)(Ord. 1379, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 71.006 REVIEW BOARD; HEARING AND DECISION; NOTICE.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the City Administrator determines that a variance
petition is complete, and all required fees and information have been received,
a Review Board consisting of the City Administrator, the Council member of the
ward in which the applicant resides and the Mayor shall conduct a public
hearing and, after hearing the oral testimony and written evidence of all
interested persons, shall make its decision at the same meeting or at a
specified future meeting. Any decision granting a variance may impose
conditions which the Review Board deems necessary to ensure compliance, protect
adjacent properties and promote the peace, health, safety and welfare of the
citizens.
   (B)   Notice of variance hearings shall be mailed not less than ten days
before the date of the hearing to the person who filed the petition for
variance and to each owner of property situated wholly or partially within 350
feet of the property to which the variance relates insofar as the names and
addresses of such owners can be reasonably determined by the City Administrator
from current city records.
(1992 Code, § 702:25) (Ord. 1379, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 71.007 APPEAL.
   The applicant, any owners to whom notice of the hearing was given or any
member of the staff of the city may appeal a decision of the Review Board to
the Council, by filing a written notice of appeal with the City Administrator
within ten days after the date of the decision.
(1992 Code, § 702:30) (Ord. 1379, passed 8-16-2005)
§ 71.008 HEARING BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council, at its next regular meeting after the appeal is filed,
shall set a date for hearing the appeal.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be given in the same manner as the hearing
before the Review Board.
   (C)   At the hearing, all persons shall be heard who wish to be heard, in
person or by a representative. At the hearing, or a specified future date, the
Council shall make its decision.
   (D)   The Council’s decision shall set forth its findings and reasons for
granting or denying the variance, or the Council may adopt, as its own, the
findings and reasons of the Review Board.
   (E)   On granting a variance, the Council may impose conditions to the same
extent as the Review Board as set out in §
71.006(A) of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 702:35) (Ord. 1379, passed 8-16-2005)
MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS
§ 71.020 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Motorcycles, motorscooters and motor bikes shall be licensed and regulated
as set forth below.
   (A)   Motorcycles, as used herein, shall mean the vehicles defined in Minn.
Stat. § 169.01, Subd. 4, as is may be amended from time to time, and acts
amendatory thereto.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motorcycle on any street or highway, within
the corporate limits of the city, unless such person has a valid driver’s
license with a two-wheel vehicle endorsement as provided by statute.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motorcycle in the following places:
      (1)   On private property, except with the permission of the owner or
lawful occupant; and/or
      (2)   On public property, including, but not limited to, school sites,
parks, playgrounds, recreation areas and golf courses, except as hereinafter
expressly provided to the contrary.
   (D)   (1)   Operation of motorcycles may occur in city parks, playgrounds,
recreation areas and golf courses, but only in those portions thereof which the
Park and Recreation Board has designated for motorcycle use.
      (2)   Said Park and Recreation Board may conduct, supervise and regulate
events or programs in which motorcycles are used.
(1992 Code, § 715:00) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.021 REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION.
   (A)   All provisions of Minn. Stat. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time
to time, pertaining to motorcycles and other motor vehicle equipment shall
apply to motorcycles except those which, by their nature, can have no
application.
   (B)   Provisions of this section shall not apply to persons during their
participation in a parade for which parade a permit or other official
authorization has been granted by the city or other governmental authority.
   (C)   Every person operating a motorcycle upon a roadway shall be granted
all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to a
motor vehicle as provided by state statutes, except as to those provisions
which, by their nature, can have no application.
   (D)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided otherwise, no person shall
operate a motorcycle unless it is equipped at all times with a muffler in good
working order which blends the exhaust noise into the overall motorcycle noise
and is in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise.
      (2)   The exhaust system shall not emit or produce a sharp popping or
crackling noise.
      (3)   This section does not apply to organized races or similar
competitive events held on:
         (a)   Private lands, with the permission of the owner, lessee or
custodian of the lands;
         (b)   Public lands and waters under the jurisdiction of the
Commissioner, with the Commissioner’s permission; or
         (c)   Other public lands with the consent of the public agency owning
the land.
      (4)   No person shall have for sale, sell or offer for sale on any new
motorcycle any muffler that fails to comply with the specifications of the
Commissioner after the effective date of these rules and regulations.
(1992 Code, § 715:05) Penalty, see §
71.999
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, and control the operation of, a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person other than a lienholder, having the property in or title to
a snowmobile entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its agencies
and subdivisions, and any body of person, whether incorporated or not.
   PUBLIC STREET OR HIGHWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, including the shoulder.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice or a
natural terrain steered by wheels, skis or runners.
(1992 Code, § 725:00) (Ord. 1405, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 71.036 APPLICATION OF OTHER LAWS.
   The city ordinance provisions relating to vehicular traffic shall apply to
the operation of snowmobiles upon the streets and highways in addition to all
other snowmobile regulations herein enumerated; and Minn. Stat. §§ 84.81
through 84.915 and Minn. Stat. Ch. 169, as they may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted by reference, except those provisions which, by their
nature, have no application.
(1992 Code, § 725:05) (Ord. 1405, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 71.037 USE REGULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile under the
circumstances set forth below.
   (A)   A snowmobile may be operated on city streets only for the purpose of
going to and from the city limits on the most direct route from the point of
origin to the city limits or returning therefrom.
   (B)   On private property of another without the express permission to do so
by the owner or occupant of said property. Said permission must be in writing
from the owner or occupant of the property.
   (C)   On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, recreational
areas and golf courses without express provision or permission to do so by the
proper public authority. Said permission must be in writing from the proper
public authority.
   (D)   In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or unusual noise so as
to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons. It is a
presumptive public nuisance for the operator of a snowmobile to discharge into
the open air the exhaust from the snowmobile’s engine, except through a
properly working muffler or other device that is in constant operation and
effectively prevents loud or explosive engine noises, blends exhaust noise into
the overall vehicle noise to prevent excessive or unusual noise such as sharp
popping or crackling sounds, or other sounds likely to annoy, disturb , injure
or endanger the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of a reasonable person
of ordinary sensibilities in its vicinity.
   (E)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger, or be
likely to endanger, the safety of any person or the property of any other
person.
   (F)   Without having such snowmobile registered as provided for in Minn.
Stat. § 84.82, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   No snowmobile shall be operated on any public street or highways
within the downtown area designated as an area bounded on the south by Mill
Street, by Oak Street on the west, by Rose Street on the north and Grove Street
on the east.
   (H)   The absolute maximum speed limit for the operation of snowmobiles
within the corporate limits of the city is 15 mph. All snowmobiles must come to
a complete stop at each street intersection before proceeding into and through
the intersection.
   (I)   All snowmobiles shall be operated in single file as close to the
right-hand curb of all public roads and streets of the city as possible. On
public roads and streets not having curbs, snowmobiles will be operated in
single file as close to the right-hand edge of the traveled portion of roadways
as possible.
   (J)   No snowmobile shall be operated within the corporate limits of the
city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following morning.
Snowmobiles may only be operated on the streets or highways within city limits
between November 15 and March 31.
   (K)   No trailers shall be pulled by snowmobiles unless a solid type hitch
is used connecting the trailer with the snowmobile, and any such trailer pulled
shall likewise be equipped with a red tail light in working order on the rear
most portion of said trailer. For purposes of this division (K), a TRAILER
shall be defined to include any sled, toboggan or other device used for
carrying persons or property, which does not contain its own course of
motivation.
   (L)   No person under 14 years of age shall operate a snowmobile upon a
street or highway within the city. A person 14 years of age or older, but less
than 18 years of age, may operate a snowmobile in the city only if he or she
has in his or her immediate possession a valid snowmobile safety certificate
issued by the Commissioner of Natural Resources.
   (M)   It is a misdemeanor to intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill
any animal, wild or domestic, with a snowmobile within the city limits.
   (N)   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile
to be operated contrary to the provisions of this subchapter or the laws of the
state.
   (O)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile in the city
after having received a visual or audible signal from any law enforcement
officer to come to a stop or to operate a snowmobile in a willful and wanton
disregard for such signal or to interfere with or endanger the law enforcement
officer or any other person or vehicle or to increase speed or attempt to flee
or elude the officer.
(1992 Code, § 725:10) (Ord. 1405, passed 1-2-2007) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.038 PARK AND RECREATION PROGRAMS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the prohibitions of this subchapter, the Director of
Parks and Recreation shall have authority to supervise and regulate events or
programs in connection with events conducted by the City Park and Recreation
Department in which snowmobiles are used.
   (B)   The Director of Parks and Recreation shall have the authority to
designate city parks that are deemed available for the use of snowmobiles.
(1992 Code, § 725:15) (Ord. 1405, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 71.039 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   All snowmobiles operated within the corporate limits of the city shall have
the equipment set forth in the sections which follow.
   (A)   Mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the noise of
operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise necessary for operating the
vehicle, and no person shall use a muffler cut-out, by-pass or similar device
on said vehicles.
   (B)   A safety or so-called “dead man” throttle in operating condition; a
SAFETY OR DEAD MAN THROTTLE is defined as a device, which, when pressure is
removed from the accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be disengaged
from the driving track.
   (C)   Each snowmobile must have at least one operable headlamp and tail
lamp, reflector material of 16 square inches mounted on each side forward of
the handlebar, and brakes conforming to the standards of the State Department
of Natural Resources.
   (D)   Each snowmobile must have brakes adequate to control the movement of,
and to stop and hold the snowmobile, under any conditions of operation.
(1992 Code, § 725:20) (Ord. 1405, passed 1-2-2007) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.040 PARKING WITH MOTOR RUNNING.
   No owner or operator shall leave or allow a snowmobile to be or remain
unattended on public property while the motor is running or with the keys to
start same in the ignition switch.
(1992 Code, § 725:25) (Ord. 1405, passed 1-2-2007) Penalty, see §
71.999
BICYCLES
§ 71.055 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles shall be granted all of the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws
of the state, or by the traffic ordinances of the city.
(1992 Code, § 730:00)
§ 71.056 EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLE.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(1992 Code, § 730:03) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.057 LOCKING PARKED BICYCLE.
   No owner or operator of a bicycle shall leave or park it unattended on the
streets, sidewalks, alleys, designated parking areas and other public grounds
without first affixing a lock thereon so as to prevent the theft of said
bicycle.
(1992 Code, § 730:06) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.058 BICYCLE RIDING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with,
or its operator shall carry, a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type approved by the Department of Public Safety
which is visible from all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. A
lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may
be used in addition to the red reflector.
      (2)   No person may, after 1-1-1976, at any time when there is not
sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the
highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead, operate a bicycle unless the bicycle
or its operator is equipped with reflective surfaces that shall be visible
during the hours of darkness from 600 feet when viewed in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   The reflective surfaces shall include reflective materials on
each side of each pedal to indicate their presence from the front or the rear
and with a minimum of 20 square inches on each side of the bicycle or its
operator of white reflective material.
      (2)   All reflective materials used in compliance with this section shall
meet the requirements as prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
(1992 Code, § 730:09) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.059 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(1992 Code, § 730:12) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.060 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey traffic-control devices
applicable to vehicles unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction on any such sign.
(1992 Code, § 730:15) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.061 SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   Before turning or making a lane change, or changing the direction of any
bicycle upon any street, highway, parkway or public place, the bicyclist shall
give an arm signal to turn right or left continuously during the last 100 feet
traveled before turning, changing lanes or direction, unless the bicyclist’s
arm is needed to control the bicycle. The arm signal shall be given while the
bicycle is stopped waiting to turn. To signal a left turn, the bicyclist shall
extend the left arm straight out in the direction of the turn horizontally. To
signal a right had turn, the bicyclist shall extend the left arm and hand
upward or extend the right hand and arm horizontally to the right side of the
bicycle.
(Minn. Stat. §§ 169.19, Subd. 8 and 169.222, Subd. 8) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.062 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any packages, bundle or article
which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handle bar.
(1992 Code, § 730:21) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.063 TRICK RIDING.
   No person riding or operating a bicycle shall perform or attempt to perform
any acrobatic, fancy or stunt riding upon any public highway or street.
(1992 Code, § 730:24) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.064 PASSENGERS ON BICYCLE.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(1992 Code, § 730:27) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.065 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a Business District;
BUSINESS DISTRICT, as herein defined, shall mean: beginning at a point where
the centerline of Oak Avenue intersects the centerline of Mill Street; thence
easterly along said centerline to the point where it intersects the centerline
of Elm Avenue; thence northerly along said centerline to the point where it
intersects the centerline of Front Street; thence westerly along said
centerline to the point where it intersects the centerline of Oak Avenue;
thence southerly along said centerline to the point of beginning.
(1992 Code, § 730:30) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.066 PARKING AND PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk in a Business District,
except where bicycle parking spaces have been designated by official signs and
markings pursuant to this code. A bicycle parked on a public sidewalk other
than where bicycle parking spaces have been so designated is hereby declared to
be a hazard to pedestrians.
   (B)   Any bicycle which is parked on any sidewalk in any Business District
so as to be a hazard to pedestrians shall be impounded by the City Police
Department.
(1992 Code, § 730:33) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.067 ENTERING, EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building upon
approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway shall
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or
sidewalk area and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(1992 Code, § 730:36) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.068 BICYCLE LANES AND PATHS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle within an established and officially
designated bicycle lane or path, except when necessary to park where parking is
allowed, for purposes of ingress or egress to and from driveways or for purpose
of intersectional travel.
(1992 Code, § 730:39) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.069 WHERE TO RIDE.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction. Whenever a usable
path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a roadway or as part of the
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such paths and shall not use the remaining
portion of the roadway.
(1992 Code, § 730:42) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.070 RIDING ABREAST.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast,
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for exclusive use of bicycles.
(1992 Code, § 730:45) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.071 HITCHING RIDES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle upon any street,
highway, parkway or public place to attach himself or herself to any other
moving vehicle.
(1992 Code, § 730:48) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.072 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any
act required in this subchapter. The parent of any child or minor and the
guardian of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any child, minor
or ward to violate any of the provisions of this chapter. These regulations
applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any
street or highway within the city or upon any path or trail therein set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(1992 Code, § 730:51) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.073 JUVENILE BICYCLE LAW OFFENDER.
   All persons under the age of 18 and who violate any of the sections of this
subchapter shall be declared a juvenile bicycle law offender and the
proceedings against said individual will take place in the Juvenile Court of
the county under rules and regulations prescribed by said Court.
(1992 Code, § 730:54)
ROLLERSKATES AND SKATEBOARDS
§ 71.085 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATE. To ride on or upon or control the operation of a skateboard or
rollerskates.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
skateboard or rollerskates.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its agencies
and subdivisions, and any body of persons, whether incorporated or not.
   ROLLERSKATE. A form of skate with small wheels or rollers instead of a
runner.
   SKATEBOARD. A device for riding upon, usually while standing, consisting of
an oblong piece of wood or of other composition mounted on skate wheels.
(1992 Code, § 735:00)
§ 71.086 USE REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a skateboard or rollerskates
under the circumstances set forth below:
   (A)   On private property of another without the express permission to do so
by the owner or occupant of said property;
   (B)   In any careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger, or be
likely to endanger, the safety of any person or the property of any other
person;
   (C)   Upon any public street or upon any public sidewalk within the downtown
area designated as an area bounded on the south by Mill Street, on the west by
Oak Avenue, on the north by Rose Street, on the east by Grove Avenue and
including the area of said designated streets and the sidewalks parallel
thereto on both sides of the street;
   (D)   The operator of a skateboard or rollerskates emerging from an alley,
driveway or building upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending
across any alleyway shall yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching
the sidewalk or sidewalk area and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway;
   (E)   No person operating a skateboard or rollerskating shall attach the
same or the person of the operator to any vehicle upon a roadway;
   (F)   Every person operating a skateboard or rollerskating upon a roadway
shall ride as close as possible to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway;
and
   (G)   No person shall rollerskate or use a skateboard upon a public street,
sidewalk or other roadway after sunset and before sunrise.
(1992 Code, § 735:05) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It is a petty offense for any person to do any act forbidden or fail
to perform any act required by §§
71.001 through
71.008 of this chapter and the penalty shall be as provided in §
72.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1992 Code, § 702:50)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
71.035 through
71.040 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor unless such conduct is
defined by state statute as a gross misdemeanor or greater and, in such cases,
the punishment authorized by state statute shall apply.
      (2)   A person registered as the owner of a snowmobile may be fined not
to exceed $300 if a snowmobile bearing the person’s registration number is
operated contrary to the provisions of §§
71.035 through
71.040 of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 725:30)(Ord. 1379, passed 8-16-2005; Ord. 1405, passed 1-2-2007)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES GENERALLY
Section
   
72.01   Double parking
   
72.02   Parking during street maintenance or snow emergency
   
72.03   Parking limited
   
72.04   Vehicles towed by police
   
72.05   Storage on lots prohibited
   
72.06   Prohibitions on stopping and parking
   
72.07   Parking zones
   
72.08   Unclassified violations
   
72.09   Traffic-control signs; authority; compliance
   
72.10   Notice of violation
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DOUBLE PARKING.
   No vehicle shall be parked double on a public street, except for the purpose
of receiving and discharging passengers and then for only such times as is
reasonably necessary for that purpose and in a manner not to obstruct other
vehicles from passing, and except as herein provided, no vehicle shall be left
standing unattended at any time on any street or highway in the city unless
such vehicle is lawfully parked thereon.
(1992 Code, § 700:00) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PARKING DURING STREET MAINTENANCE OR SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle on any street
in the city on any day between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 12:00 noon from
November 15 through March 31, except as hereinafter provided:
         (a)   On even-numbered calendar dates, vehicles may be parked on the
near side of the street adjacent to lots and houses which have been assigned
even numbers; and
         (b)   On odd-numbered calendar dates, vehicles may be parked on the
near side of the street adjacent to lots and houses which have been assigned
odd numbers.
      (2)   This division (A) does not apply to any street where parking is
limited to one side, to any cul-de-sac which has combined even and odd house
numbers, nor to any street which has more restrictive parking requirements.
      (3)   This division (A) does not apply to street parking within a two-
block radius of duly constituted churches for regularly scheduled weekend
services, holiday services, funerals and weddings. Street parking is allowed
one hour prior and one hour after the scheduled service times.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or be permitted to remain on any street in
or serving the Business District, as defined in §
71.065 of this code of ordinances, between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
on any day, contrary to the signs ordered by the Council to be posted on such
streets. Signs in place effective upon the adoption of this chapter shall be in
effect until ordered changed.
   (C)   Any violation of this section shall be subject to the penalties set
forth in §
72.99 of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 700:05) (Ord. 1098, passed 11-1-1994; Ord. 1128, passed 10-3-
1995; Ord. 1192, passed 10-20-1998; Ord. 1408, passed 2-20-2007; Ord. 1416,
passed 5-1-2007; Ord. 1612, passed 12-15-2020; Ord. 1621, passed 8-2-2021)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING LIMITED.
   No vehicle shall be parked or left unattended on any street, public parking
lot or alley within the corporate limits of the city for 48 hours or more
unless otherwise posted.
(1992 Code, § 700:10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 VEHICLES TOWED BY POLICE.
   Where any vehicle is parked or left unattended on any street, parking lot or
alley contrary to the provisions of this chapter, any police officer of the
city may cause such vehicle to be towed, or towed and stored, and the actual
costs of such towing and storage shall be paid by the owner of such vehicle. In
addition to paying the actual costs of towing and storage, the owner shall pay
any fine for violation of this chapter set forth.
(1992 Code, § 700:15) (Ord. 1612, passed 12-15-2020)
§ 72.05 STORAGE ON LOTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use public parking lots in the city
for storage. The word “storage”, as used herein, shall not be construed to mean
the parking of only one motor vehicle by one person, but is intended to
prohibit any person who owns, or has the care, custody and control of more than
one vehicle, from using city public parking lots for parking of such vehicles,
thereby making such lots unavailable for casual parking purposes.
(1992 Code, § 700:20) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PROHIBITIONS ON STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk or within a boulevard area. For purposes of this
division (A)(1), BOULEVARD shall be defined as that part of the street right-
of-way lying between the road surface including shoulder and the right-of-way
line;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on a curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of said entrance when properly sign-posted;
      (11)   In a yellow zone;
      (12)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel, except as otherwise provided by ordinance;
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping. No person
shall move a vehicle not owned by such person into any prohibited area or away
from a curb such distance as is unlawful; and/or
      (15)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
   (B)   In the case of single-family, two-family and townhouse dwellings,
parking of motor vehicles for a length of time exceeding 24 hours shall be
prohibited in any portion of the front yard, except designated driveways
leading directly into a garage or one open, surfaced space located on the side
of a driveway, away from the principal use. The provisions of Ord. 827,
relating to definitions of terms, are adopted and made a part of this section.
      (1)   SURFACING means that the area intended to be utilized for parking
space shall be surfaced with material suitable to control dust and drainage and
includes crushed rock, asphalt and concrete.
      (2)   For purposes hereof, motor vehicles includes all vehicles required
to be licensed and registered under Minn. Stat. Ch. 168, as it may be amended
from time to time, and includes automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles,
trailers, boat trailers and also includes boats.
      (3)   A variance from the provisions of this chapter may be authorized
pursuant to the provisions of Ord. 827.
   (C)   (1)   Large vehicles in residential zones. It is unlawful for any
person owning, driving or in charge of a motor vehicle to cause or permit the
parking or continuous standing for more than four hours on any public or
private property within any Residential Use District of the city, as defined in
Ord. 827, of:
         (a)   Any commercial bus, tractor, truck tractor or tractor trailer
combination on any public or private property within any residential use
district; or
         (b)   Any motor vehicle in excess of 9,000 pounds gross vehicle weight
or in excess of 22 feet in length.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) above shall not apply to:
         (a)   Any motor vehicle being used by a public utility, moving company
or similar company while it is actually being used to service a residence not
belonging to or occupied by the operator of the vehicle;
         (b)   Any motor vehicle used in conjunction with an authorized
construction site during a period that construction is actually taking place,
including non-working hours and holidays;
         (c)   Vehicles in the process of loading or delivering to a residence
not belonging to or occupied by the operator of the vehicle; or
         (d)   Any “recreational vehicle”, as defined in this traffic code.
(1992 Code, § 700:25) (Ord. 1349, passed 7-20-2004) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING ZONES.
   To control and regulate the parking of motor vehicles within the public
parking lots, the Council may, by resolution, designate that certain portions
of any of the public parking lots, streets or other public areas are restricted
to a limited time for parking. The City Council shall establish, by resolution,
zones for parallel and diagonal on-street parking within the Central Business
District of the city, with the following restriction: no parking other than
parallel parking shall be authorized on a municipal state-aid street or county
state-aid highway within the Central Business District, except such roads as
meet the minimum state-aid standards for such parking and approval is returned
from the MN/DOT.
(1992 Code, § 700:30)
§ 72.08 UNCLASSIFIED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on a public highway, street, parking
lot, alley or other public property in such manner as to cause the tires to
squeal, the gears to grind or the motor to backfire, except when an emergency
creates the necessity for such operation.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a public highway, street, parking
lot, alley or other public property at irregular or erratic and changing speeds
or in such a manner as to cause said motor vehicle to skid or slide upon
acceleration or stopping or in a manner that simulates a temporary race, or
that causes the vehicle to turn abruptly or sway, except when an emergency
creates the necessity for such operation.
   (C)   No person shall loiter on top of, against or upon an outside portion
of any vehicle parked on any public highway, street, parking lot, alley or
other public property without the consent or permission of the owner or
operator thereof, nor shall he or she loiter in such places in a manner likely
to endanger himself or herself or to impede the free flow of traffic.
   (D)   Except in a real emergency, during an authorized public parade or when
making lawful signals, no person shall drive or ride in a motor vehicle on any
public highway, street, alley, parking lot or other public place:
      (1)   With any part of his or her person extending outside the window;
      (2)   While sitting, reclining or being in or on any portion of a motor
vehicle not normally occupied by the driver or passengers; or
      (3)   While standing or being above normal sitting position in an open
convertible motor vehicle.
(1992 Code, § 700:35) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS; AUTHORITY; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Engineer shall cause to be placed traffic-control signs and
markers on such streets, alleys, avenues, highways and other public ways as the
Council may, by motion, from time to time direct. The Engineer is further
empowered to cause to be placed temporary signs or markers on or adjacent to
streets, alleys, avenues, highways and other public ways as he or she may deem
necessary or expedient to regulate, warn or guide traffic in emergency cases,
or where public safety would be thereby preserved.
(1992 Code, § 700:40)
   (B)   No person who operates or controls any vehicle, or in whose name any
vehicle is registered, shall cause, allow, permit or suffer such vehicle to be
upon any street, avenue, alley or public parking lot, where parking zones are
established, contrary to or for a longer period of time than is indicated by
the markings or signs erected in or adjacent to such street, avenue, alley or
public parking lot, as are now or may hereafter be ordered by the Council or
posted by the Engineer in emergencies as authorized in §
72.08 of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 700:45) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any motor vehicle is found parked in violation of any
of the parking restrictions of this chapter, a police officer, parking control
attendant or community service officer finding it shall affix conspicuously to
such vehicle or serve upon the person operating same, a written notice.
      (2)   Such notice shall be made out on duplicate form and shall indicate
thereon the time and place of such violation, make of vehicle and any other
information that may be necessary to a thorough understanding of the
circumstances attending such violation.
      (3)   Such notices shall consist of an envelope which shall have printed
thereon that the vehicle has been parked in violation of this chapter, and
instructions to the owner or operator to report to the Police Department in
regard to said violation or to insert in an envelope used as a traffic
violation ticket, the sum of money in the amount duly established by the
Council from time to time, in a parking violation fee box or mailed to the
Police Department.
   (B)   Persons who have received notices as provided in this section may,
within the time specified in such notices, answer at the Police Department the
charges set forth in said notice, or in lieu thereof, shall place such sum of
money in said envelope and deposit same as provided in this chapter, which acts
shall constitute a payment of said parking fee, and waiver of notice of hearing
thereon, and the acceptance thereby by the Police Department shall be deemed
complete satisfaction for the violation.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to keep account of the
violations of this chapter, and make such reports thereon as the Council may
require.
(1992 Code, § 700:50)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It is a petty offense for any person to do any act forbidden or
fail to perform any act required by this chapter. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
See §
10.99(A)(1)(c).
      (2)   A person charged with a petty offense shall not be entitled to a
jury trial, but shall be tried by a judge without a jury. If convicted, he or
she shall be punished by a fine of not more than $200.
      (3)   Any person violating parking restrictions contained in this chapter
may fully satisfy such violation by inserting in the envelope used as a parking
violation fee ticket, such sum of lawful money of the United States as is
hereinafter set forth, and placing such envelope in parking violation fee box,
or by leaving same at the Law Enforcement Center in the city, to-wit:
         (a)   1.   Parking beyond time limit:
 
First offense                 Warning
Second and third offense      $10
Fourth offense                $20
Fifth offense                 $40
Sixth offense                 $60
Seventh offense               $80
Eighth and subsequent offense $100
 
            2.   For the purpose of this section, offenses accumulate over a
period of one year starting January 1 and ending December 31.
         (b)   Parking too close to fire hydrant: $20;
         (c)   Unlawfully parking in a handicapped zone: $100;
         (d)   Double parked illegally: $15;
         (e)   Parking in a prohibited area: $15;
         (f)   Parking in crosswalk: $15;
         (g)   Parking over 48 hours unattended: $15;
         (h)   Blocking private drive: $15;
         (i)   Obstructing traffic lane: $15;
         (j)   Parking so as to obstruct an alley: $15;
         (k)   Parked 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. in the Central Business District:
$10;
         (l)   Parking too close to stop sign: $10;
         (m)   Parking in a yellow zone: $10;
         (n)   Other: $10;
         (o)   Winter parking violations: $20;
         (p)   Recreational vehicle parking violations: $20; and
         (q)   Intentionally obstructs or interferes with the enforcement of
this chapter by removing the parking control officer’s chalk mark on the tires
of a motor vehicle: $100.
         (r)   Parking in a 30 minute zone: $10;
         (s)   Parked in opposing traffic: $10;
         (t)   Parked 11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.: $10;
         (u)   No parking school days 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.: $10;
         (v)   Parked over 24 hours: $10; and
         (w)   No stopping ordinance: $10.
      (4)   For violations of §
72.06 of this chapter, payments must be made within ten days. Late fees will be
assessed as follows: after ten days, $10 penalty; and after 30 days but before
issuance of a warrant, $30 penalty.
      (5)   Payments so made shall constitute a parking violation fee. All
amounts collected after issuance of a warrant as hereinafter provided shall
constitute a fine for ordinance violation and are subject to the jurisdiction
of the District Court. After a warrant issues for the violation of this
chapter, the bail and fine for said violation will be set by the Court;
provided that, no warrant shall be issued unless a notice of violation by first
class mail has been sent by the City Police Department to the last known
registered owner of the vehicle involved.
(1992 Code, § 700:55)
   (B)   Use of proceeds. The monies returned from the fees, fines and charges
for parking control violations shall be deposited in the General Fund of the
city.
(1992 Code, § 700:60)
   (C)   Owner’s liability. The registered owner or real owner of a vehicle
shall be responsible for any parking violation under this section committed by
someone using said vehicle, unless said owner has prohibited said person from
using said vehicle. All vehicles in violation are subject to being towed at the
owner’s expense.
(1992 Code, § 700:70)
(Ord. 1138, passed 5-21-1996; Ord. 1192, passed 10-20-1998; Ord. 1358, passed
11-16-2004; Ord. 1437, passed 12-16-2008; Ord. 1612, passed 12-15-2020)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING ASSESSMENT DISTRICT
Section
   
73.01   District established
   
73.02   Procedures for making special assessments
   § 73.01 DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   The City Council, pursuant to authority granted in Minn. Stat. § 459.14, as
it may be amended from time to time, hereby establishes a Parking Assessment
District within the boundaries of the following described tract for the purpose
of acquisition, development, maintenance and repair of additional parking
facilities, and spreading an equitable part of the costs through special
assessments against benefitted properties: beginning at the intersection of the
north right-of-way line of Rose Street, and the westerly right-of-way line of
Hoffman Drive; thence east along said north right-of-way line of Rose Street to
its intersection with the centerline of the Straight River; thence north along
the centerline of the Straight River to a point due west of a point 36.3 feet
north of the intersection of the north right-of-way line of Rose Street and the
west right-of-way line of North Oak Avenue; thence east to a point on the east
right-of-way of North Oak Avenue 36.3 feet north of the intersection of the
north right-of-way line of Rose Street and the east right-of-way line of North
Oak Avenue; thence north along said east right-of-way line of North Oak Avenue
to its intersection with the northwest corner of Lot 2, Block 4, Abbott’s
Addition; thence east along the north line of said Lot 2, Block 4, Abbott’s
Addition, to its intersection with the west line of Lot 1, Block 1, Howe’s
Addition; thence north along said west line of Lot 1, Block 1, Howe’s Addition,
99 feet; thence east 6.8 feet; thence north ten feet, continuing north along
the west line of Lot 2, Block 1, Howe’s Addition, to its intersection with the
south right-of-way line of Fremont Street; thence east along said south right-
of-way line to its intersection with the east right-of-way line of North Cedar
Avenue; thence north along the east right-of-way line of North Cedar Avenue to
a point 82.5 feet north of the north right-of-way line of Fremont Street;
thence east 185 feet; thence south to the intersection with the south right-of-
way line of Fremont Street; thence east along said south right-of-way line to
its intersection with the northeast corner of Lot 19, Block 1, Pettit’s
Addition; thence south along the east line of said Lot 19, Block 1, Pettit’s
Addition, to the northeast corner of Lot 6, Block 1, Pettit’s Addition; thence
east along the north line of Lots 7, 8, 9 and 10, Block 1, Pettit’s Addition,
to the northeast corner of Lot 10, Block 1, Pettit’s Addition; thence south
along the east line of said Lot 10, Block 1, Pettit’s Addition, 62.37 feet;
thence east 165 feet to the east right-of-way line of North Elm Avenue; thence
south along said east right-of-way line of North Elm Avenue to its intersection
with the south right-of-way line of North Elm Avenue; thence south along said
east right-of-way line of North Elm Avenue to its intersection with the south
right-of-way line of Rose Street; thence east along said south right-of-way
line of Rose Street, 115.5 feet; thence south 105.93 feet; thence east 49.5
feet; thence south 122.42 feet to the north line of Lot 3, Block 21, Original
Town; thence east along the north line of Lots 3 and 4, Block 21, Original
Town, to the northeast corner of Lot 4, Block 21, Original Town; thence south
along the east line of Lot 4, Block 21, Original Town, to the north right-of-
way line of Pearl Street; thence west along said north right-of-way line of
Pearl Street 165 feet; thence south 214.5 feet to the north line of Lot 2,
Block 11, Original Town; thence east along said north line of Lot 2, Block 11,
Original Town, to the northeast corner of Lot 2, Block 11, Original Town;
thence south 66 feet; thence west 62 feet; thence south 132 feet to the south
right-of-way line of Vine Street; thence west along said south right-of-way
line of Vine Street to the northeast corner of Lot 18, Block 12, Original Town;
thence south 84 feet; thence east 18 feet; thence south to the north line of
Lot 2, Block 12, Original Town; thence east along the north line of Lots 2, 3
and 4, Block 12, Original Town, to a point 22 feet east of the northwest corner
of Lot 4, Block 12, Original Town; thence south to north right-of-way line of
Broadway Street; thence west along said north right-of-way line of Broadway
Street to the east right-of-way line of Elm Avenue; thence south along said
east right-of-way line of Elm Avenue to its intersection with the south right-
of-way line of Main Street; thence east along said south right-of-way line of
Main Street to the northeast corner of Lot 2, Block 14, Original Town; thence
south along the east line of Lot 2, Block 14, Original Town, to the southeast
corner of Lot 2, Block 14, Original Town; thence west 33 feet; thence south to
the north right-of-way line of Mill Street; thence west along said north right-
of-way line of Mill Street to its intersection with the east right-of-way line
of Elm Avenue; thence north along said east right-of-way line of Elm Avenue to
a point 66 feet north of the north right-of-way line of Mill Street; thence
west along a line parallel to and 66 feet north of the north right-of-way line
of Mill Street to the east line of Lot 12, Block 6, Original Town; thence south
along the east line of Lot 12, Block 6, Original Town, to the north right-of-
way line of Mill Street; thence west along said north right-of-way line of Mill
Street to its intersection with the east right-of-way line of South Cedar
Avenue; thence north along said east right-of-way line of South Cedar Avenue to
a point 148.5 feet north of the north right-of-way line of Mill Street; thence
west along the south line of Lots 1 through 16, Block 7, Original Town,
extended to its intersection with the west right-of-way line of South Oak
Avenue; thence north along said west right-of-way line of South Oak Avenue to a
point 110 feet south of the northeast corner of Lot 1, Block 8, Original Town;
thence west along a line parallel and 110 feet south of the south right-of-way
line of West Main Street, to a point 189 feet east of the east right-of-way
line of Walnut Avenue; thence south along a line parallel and 189 feet east of
the east right-of-way line of Walnut to the south line of Lot 3, Block 8,
Original Town; thence west along the south line of Lots 3 and 4, Block 8,
Original Town, and the south line of Lot 4, Block 2, Cornell, Pettit, Moss, Van
Vliet and Durand Addition, extended to the west line of Walnut Avenue; thence
north along said west line of Walnut Avenue to its intersection with the south
right-of-way line of West Bridge Street; thence west along said south right-of-
way line of West Bridge Street to its intersection with the centerline of the
Straight River; thence northerly along the centerline of the Straight River to
the southwesterly right-of-way line of Hoffman Drive; thence northwesterly
along said southwesterly right-of-way line of Hoffman Drive to the point of
beginning. All within the city, Township 107 North, Range 20 West.
(1992 Code, § 676:00)
§ 73.02 PROCEDURES FOR MAKING SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   The procedures for financing and assessing benefitted property will be
those procedures established under Minn. Stat. §§ 429.011 through 429.091, as
they may be amended from time to time, not to exclude any other procedures and
powers now or hereafter provided by general law or Home Rule Charter.
   (B)   Special assessments will be determined on a project-by-project basis
within the Parking Assessment District, pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 459.14, Subd.
7, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   As a condition for the issuance of building permits in the Parking
Assessment District, when such permit will involve the construction or
remodeling of a structure so that the number of deficient parking spaces as was
determined for that property under a specific parking lot assessment increases,
the property owner shall pay to the city the difference between the original
assessment and the amount that would have been assessed based on the projected
parking deficiency. Said money shall accrue in a debt retirement fund for debt
incurred in the acquisition and construction of off-street parking within the
Parking Assessment District.
(1992 Code, § 676:01)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way roads
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY ROADS.
   (A)   Restrictions. The streets in the city named below are hereby
designated one-way roadways upon which vehicular traffic shall move only in the
direction indicated:
      (1)   East Park Square from Main Street to East Broadway on which East
Park Square vehicular traffic shall move only in a northerly direction around
Central Park in said city, to where said East Park Square intersects East
Broadway;
      (2)   West Park Square from the intersection of North Cedar Street with
Broadway to where said West Park Square intersects West Main Street on which
West Park Square vehicular traffic shall move only in a southerly direction
around Central Park in the said city, from said North Cedar Street and from
West Bridge Street and from West Broadway, to where said West Park Square
intersects West Main Street; and
      (3)   On Broadway, from the intersection of East Park Square to the
intersection with West Park Square, traffic shall move only in a westerly
direction.
(1992 Code, § 710:00)
   (B)   Posting of signs. The Engineer shall post appropriate signs indicating
the direction of lawful traffic movements on streets designated one-way
roadways in division (A) above at every intersection where movement of
vehicular traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(1992 Code, § 710:05)
   (C)   Penalty. Any person operating a vehicle on a street designated and
sign posted for one-way traffic as a one-way roadway in a direction opposite to
that permitted on such roadway shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(1992 Code, § 710:10)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   North Cedar Avenue parking restricted
SCHEDULE I. NORTH CEDAR AVENUE PARKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this schedule, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NORTH CEDAR AVENUE ZONE. Both curb lines of North Cedar Avenue from the
intersection of Broadway Street to the intersection of Fremont Street.
      OCCUPYING. Sitting within the passenger compartment of a motor vehicle,
sitting or standing on top of a motor vehicle or leaning against the outside of
a motor vehicle and, in the case of a pickup truck, occupying the box of the
truck.
      STOPPING. Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign or signal. STOPPING
includes PARKING.
   (B)   No person shall occupy a stopped or parked vehicle in the North Cedar
Avenue Zone between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m.
   (C)   Exceptions:
      (1)   Division (B) above shall not apply to any person boarding or
alighting from a parked motor vehicle; and/or
      (2)   Any physically disabled person within a vehicle entitled to the
privileges under Minn. Stat. § 169.345, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   The penalty for a violation of division (B) above shall be as provided
in §
72.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1992 Code, § 700:25) (Ord. 1088, passed 4-19-1994)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   RECREATION AND LEISURE
      
92.   FIRE ALARMS
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   NOISE CONTROL
      
96.   LOITERING
      
97.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Number of animals permitted; prohibited
   
90.03   Vaccination required
   
90.04   Tags
   
90.05   Running at large prohibited
   
90.06   Animal pens and premises kept clean
   
90.07   Obligation to prevent nuisances
   
90.08   Impounding procedures
   
90.09   Rabies notice
   
90.10   Muzzling proclamation
   
90.11   Removal of animal debris
   
90.12   Airport Terminal Building; animals prohibited
   
90.13   Exceptions
   
90.14   State law adopted
Nuisance Animals and Fowl at Large; Impounding
   
90.25   Pound authorized
   
90.26   Animals and fowl at large
   
90.27   Impounding and fees authorized
   
90.28   Animal Control Officer; duties
   
90.29   Disposition of impounded animals
   
90.30   Sale
   
90.31   Redemption of animal from purchaser
   
90.32   Breaking open or interfering with impoundment
Deer Feeding
   
90.45   Purpose
   
90.46   Findings
   
90.47   Prohibition
   
90.48   Exceptions
   
90.49   Effective date
Feeding Certain Non-Domestic Animals Prohibited
   
90.60   Findings and purpose
   
90.61   Definitions
   
90.62   Feedings of wild animals prohibited
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any domesticated dog or cat.
   CONTROL. Any animal shall be deemed to be under control when on the premises
of its owner, on a leash or accompanied by its owner, if responsive to
commands; provided, however, that, any animal in a public park shall only be
deemed to be under CONTROL when such animal is attached to a leash held by the
owner or the owner’s agent.
   HABITUAL. Steady, much done, inveterate, usual or frequently.
   HOUSEHOLD. A single-family residence or single unit of a town home,
condominium, apartment or mobile home.
   OWN. Own, keep, harbor or maintain an animal within the city or permit such
animal to be at large within the city.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, harboring or maintaining an animal within
the city or permitting such animal to be at large within the city. An animal
shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered for seven days or
more.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal not under “control”, as hereinabove defined.
(1992 Code, § 1025:00)
§ 90.02 NUMBER OF ANIMALS PERMITTED; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person may own, keep, harbor or maintain at one household more than
three dogs over five months of age.
   (B)   No person may own, keep, harbor or maintain at one household more than
five cats over five months of age.
   (C)   No person may own, keep, harbor or maintain at one household any
combination of dogs and cats over five months of age exceeding a total of five
in number, no more than three of which may be dogs.
   (D)   It is the express intent of the City Council that the purpose of this
section is to clarify the limitation on the number of animals permitted.
(1992 Code, § 1025:03) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   No owner shall keep, harbor or maintain any animal over five months of age
within the corporate limits of the city unless it has been vaccinated for
rabies and wears a metal tag indicating the year of vaccination.
(1992 Code, § 1025:05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 TAGS.
   (A)   The shape and color of the vaccination tag shall be as prescribed in
the schedule of the National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians,
Inc. Every owner shall be required to provide each animal with a collar to
which the tag must be affixed and shall see that the collar and tag are
constantly worn by the animal. Tags shall not be transferrable from one animal
to another.
   (B)   No person shall counterfeit or attempt to counterfeit the vaccination
tags, nor take from any animal a tag legally placed upon it by its owner, with
the intent to place such tag upon another animal.
(1992 Code, § 1025:20) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No animal shall be permitted to run at large at any time within the
corporate limits of the city. No animal of fierce, dangerous or vicious
propensities, and no female animal in heat shall be allowed on the premises of
one other than the owner of such animal at any time, unless on a leash. If any
animal is found running at large, such animal shall be taken up and impounded
and shall not be released, except upon approval of the Animal Control Officer
after payment of the required fee; provided, however, that, if any dangerous,
fierce or vicious animal so found running at large cannot be safely taken up
and impounded, such animal may be slain by any police officer.
(1992 Code, § 1025:25) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ANIMAL PENS AND PREMISES KEPT CLEAN.
   An animal owner shall keep any animal houses or enclosure on his or her
premises clean, sanitary and free from animal odors and filth which would tend
to become or constitute a nuisance to one or more property owners situated
nearby.
(1992 Code, § 1025:30) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 OBLIGATION TO PREVENT NUISANCES.
   It shall be the obligation and responsibility of the owner or custodian of
any animal in the city, whether permanently or temporarily therein, to prevent
such animal from committing any act which constitutes a nuisance. For purposes
hereof, the Council finds, declares and determines that it shall be deemed a
nuisance for any animal to habitually or frequently bark, bay, howl or cry to
the detriment of the peace and quietude of neighbors of its owner or custodian
or the public in general, to frequent school grounds, parks or public beaches,
to chase vehicles, to molest or annoy any person if such person is not on the
property of the owner or custodian of such animal or to molest, defile or
destroy any property, public or private. Failure on the part of the owner or
custodian to prevent his or her animals from committing an act of nuisance
shall be subject to the penalty hereinafter provided.
(1992 Code, § 1025:35)
§ 90.08 IMPOUNDING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Establishment of pound and designation of Animal Control Officer. The
Council shall establish a pound and a qualified Animal Control Officer shall be
hired by the Council who shall attend to the maintenance of said pound and be
responsible for the enforcement of this subchapter. The Animal Control Officer
shall be responsible to the Chief of Police.
(1992 Code, § 1025:40)
   (B)   Interference with officers. No unauthorized person shall break open
the pound nor attempt to do so, nor take or let out nor attempt to take or let
out any animals therefrom, nor take or attempt to take from any Animal Control
Officer or police officer any animal taken up by said Animal Control Officer or
police officer in compliance with this subchapter, nor in any manner interfere
with or hinder such Animal Control Officer or police officer in the discharge
of duties.
(1992 Code, § 1025:45)
   (C)   Impounding.
      (1)   Animals found running at large shall be impounded as soon as
possible by the Animal Control Officer or by his or her assistant, if any, or
by a police officer, if the Animal Control Officer or his or her assistant is
not available, or by any person on whose premises the animal may be at large.
If, after exercising reasonable efforts, the Animal Control Officer or his or
her assistant or a police officer is unable to capture an animal which is not
wearing a vaccination tag, or is unable to capture a vicious animal whether or
not the vicious animal wears a tag, then any police officer shall have the
right to shoot such animal within the corporate limits of the city, having due
regard for the safety of persons and property which might otherwise be injured
by gunfire. The Animal Control Officer, upon receiving any animal, shall make a
complete registry entering the breed, color and sex of such animal, and the
name and address of the owner if known.
      (2)   Any person, not the Animal Control Officer or a police officer of
the city, impounding or seizing any animal so found running at large upon the
premises of another shall, within six hours thereafter notify the Animal
Control Officer of said impounding, whose duty it shall be to call for such
animal and impound it in the official pound. Any person, not an officer of the
city, seizing or picking up any animal running at large on his or her premises
or the premises occupied by him or her shall not keep the animal any longer
than six hours without notifying the Animal Control Officer or surrendering it
to the owner. If the name of the owner of such animal so seized or impounded is
known to the person who first takes such animal into custody, he or she shall
inform the Animal Control Officer of the name of the owner and the address, if
known. The authority given to any person, not the Animal Control Officer or a
police officer, to impound or seize any animal so found running at large upon
the premises of another, is discretionary, and in the execution thereof, said
persons shall not be deemed to be the agent or employee of the city, nor shall
the city be held responsible or liable for the consequences of any person so
acting.
(1992 Code, § 1025:50)
   (D)   Notice to owners and redemption.
      (1)   After the impounding of any animal, the owner shall be notified, if
the ownership is known by the Animal Control Officer. The owner of any animal
so impounded may reclaim such animal upon payment of the impound fee and of all
costs and charges incurred by the city for impounding and maintenance of said
animal. All veterinarian expenses incurred for such animal under this
subchapter shall be paid by said owner at such time, including a charge to
reimburse a veterinarian for rabies inoculation if evidence of inoculation is
not available.
      (2)   The Council shall establish a schedule of kennel license fees,
impound fees and daily board charges, and from time to time review and amend
said schedule. All charges and fees collected shall be remitted by whomever
collected to the Clerk-Treasurer and accurate records shall be kept thereof.
(1992 Code, § 1025:55)
   (E)   Disposition of unclaimed and diseased animals. It shall be the duty of
the Animal Control Officer to keep all animals so impounded for a period of not
to exceed five days. Any animal which is not duly claimed within five days
after impounding may be sold to anyone desiring to purchase the animal. Any
animal which is not claimed by the owner or sold shall be painlessly killed by
the Animal Control Officer.
(1992 Code, § 1025:60)
   (F)   Proceedings for destruction of certain animals.
      (1)   (a)   Upon sworn complaint to a court of proper jurisdiction that
any one of the following facts exist, the presiding officer of said court shall
issue a summons directed to the owner of said animal, commanding him or her to
appear before said court to show cause why said animal should not be seized by
the Animal Control Officer or any police officer and disposed of in the manner
authorized in this subchapter:
            1.   Any animal at any time has destroyed property or habitually
trespasses in a damaging manner on the property of persons other than the
owner;
            2.   Any animal at any time has attacked or bitten a person outside
the owner’s or custodian’s premises;
            3.   Any animal is vicious or shows vicious habits or molests
pedestrians or interferes with vehicles on the public streets or highways;
            4.   Any animal is a public nuisance as heretofore defined; or
            5.   Any animal is running at large in violation of this chapter.
         (b)   Such summons shall be returnable not less than two, nor more
than six, days from the date thereof and shall be served at least two days
before the time of appearance mentioned therein. Upon such hearing and finding
the facts true as complained of, the court may either order the animal killed
or order the owner or custodian to remove it from the city, or may order the
owner or custodian to keep it confined to a designated place. If the owner or
custodian violates such order, the Animal Control Officer or any police officer
may impound any animal described in such order. The provisions of this section
are in addition to and supplemental to other provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   Costs of the proceedings specified by this section shall be
assessed against the owner or custodian of the animal, if the facts in the
complaint are found to be true.
      (2)   Whenever an officer has reasonable cause to believe that a
particular animal presents a clear and immediate danger to residents of the
city because it is infected with rabies or because of a clearly demonstrated
vicious nature, the officer, after making reasonable attempts to impound such
animal, may summarily destroy said animal.
(1992 Code, § 1025:65)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 RABIES NOTICE.
   (A)   If an animal is believed to have rabies or has been bitten by an
animal suspected of having rabies, the owner shall notify the Animal Control
Officer of the fact that his or her animal has been exposed to rabies and, at
his or her discretion, the Animal Control Officer is empowered to have such
animal removed from the owner’s premises to a veterinary hospital and placed
under observation at an appropriate location for a period of two weeks at the
expense of the owner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowing or suspecting that an
animal has rabies to allow such animal to be taken off his or her premises or
beyond the corporate limits of the city without the written permission of the
Animal Control Officer. Every owner or other person, upon ascertaining an
animal is rabid, shall immediately notify the Animal Control Officer or a
police officer who shall either remove the animal to the pound or summarily
destroy it.
(1992 Code, § 1025:70) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 MUZZLING PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   Whenever the prevalence of rabies renders such action necessary to
protect the public health and safety, the Mayor shall issue a proclamation
ordering every person owning or keeping an animal to confine it securely on his
or her premises so that it cannot bite.
   (B)   No person shall violate such proclamation and any animal running at
large during the time affixed in the proclamation may be killed by the police
without notice to the owner.
(1992 Code, § 1025:75) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL DEBRIS.
   The owner or agent of the owner of any animal on public property or right-
of-way shall remove animal feces left by the animal and deposit the same in a
trash receptacle or otherwise remove the same from park premises.
(1992 Code, § 1025:85) (Ord. 1638, passed 9-20-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 AIRPORT TERMINAL BUILDING; ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall be permitted to bring any dog, cat or other animal into the
public airport terminal building, whether the animal is leashed or otherwise.
(1992 Code, § 1025:90) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 EXCEPTIONS.
   The prohibition provided in §
90.12 of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Service animal. Service animals accompanying a person with a
disability; (SERVICE ANIMAL is defined herein as defined in the Americans with
Disability Act (ADA), 28 C.F.R. § 36.104: “Service animal means any guide dog,
signal dog or other animal individually trained to do work or perform tasks for
the benefit of the individual with a disability, including, but not limited to,
guiding individuals with impaired vision, alerting individuals with impaired
hearing to intruders or sounds, providing minimal protection or rescue work,
pulling a wheelchair or fetching dropped items”.)
   (B)   Public safety animal. Any dog or other animal trained in search and
rescue missions, identifying contraband or for other law enforcement or public
safety purposes in service to law enforcement or other public safety personnel;
and/or
   (C)   Animal in transit. Any dog, cat or other common domestic household pet
in transit provided such animal is confined in a transit kennel or on a leash,
not exceeding eight feet in length, held by the owner or owner’s agent.
Further, such animal may only be in that part of the airport terminal known as
the “24-hour vestibule” located in the south part of the terminal building
inside the entrances off the auto parking lot and airplane parking apron.
(1992 Code, § 1025:95)
§ 90.14 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   (A)   Potentially dangerous dogs. The provisions of M.S. §§ 347.50 to
347.565 entitled “Regulation of Dangerous Dogs,” as currently enacted and as
may hereafter be amended, relating to the regulation of dangerous dogs and
potentially dangerous dogs, are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter
as if set out in full. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
words, combination of words, terms and phrases, as used in this chapter shall
have the meanings set forth herein and in M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.565. In
addition to the regulations provided in M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.565, pursuant to
M.S. § 347.53, owners of dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs are
subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   The ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY is the Owatonna Police Department
located at 204 East Pearl Street, Owatonna, Minnesota.
      (2)   PROPER ENCLOSURE with respect to a dangerous dog is defined to mean
securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure
suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and providing protection from the
elements for the dog. A proper enclosure does not include a porch, patio, or
any part of a house, garage, or other structure that would allow the dog to
exit of its own volition, or any house or structure in which windows are open
or in which door or window screens are the only obstacles that prevent the dog
from existing.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE with respect to a potentially dangerous dog shall
be expanded to include a fenced-in yard that prevents the dog from leaving the
property and to which the public cannot gain access.
      (4)   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or department
possessing, harboring, keeping, having an interest in, or having care, custody,
or control of a dog. A person keeping or harboring a dog for five consecutive
days shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be an owner thereof.
   (B)   Potentially dangerous dogs; registration required; regulations.
Potentially dangerous dogs shall be regulated under M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.565
in the same manner as if they were dangerous dogs except as otherwise provided
in this section. The owner of the potentially dangerous dog shall:
      (1)   Register the potentially dangerous dog with the Animal Control
Authority by completing, signing, and submitting a certificate of registration
together with proof of vaccination and payment of a $100 registration fee, and
payment of an annual fee of $100 each year thereafter;
      (2)   Provide for the implanting of a microchip in the dog for
identification and provide to the Animal Control Authority a copy of the
microchip information including the name and contact information of the
manufacturer and the identification number;
      (3)   Submit a certificate of liability insurance or surety bond issued
by a company licensed to do business in the State of Minnesota and approved by
the city as to form and content in an amount not less than $50,000, insuring
the owner for injuries inflicted by the dog, as result of biting, attacking, or
endangering the safety of persons;
      (4)   Sterilize the potentially dangerous dog, within 30 days, if the
Animal Control Authority determines it is necessary and in the interest of
public safety;
      (5)   When on the owner's premises keep the dog within the proper
enclosure as defined in § 90.15(A)(3); and
      (6)   When outside the proper enclosure, keep the potentially dangerous
dog on a leash accompanied by its owner and muzzled if the dog was declared to
be potentially dangerous because it inflicted bites on a person or domestic
animal on public property other than the owner's property.
   (C)   Dangerous dogs; registration required. The owner of a Dangerous dog
shall:
      (1)   Register the dog with the Animal Control Authority by completing,
signing and submitting a certificate of registration together with proof of
vaccination and payment of a $250 registration fee and payment of a $250 annual
fee each year thereafter;
      (2)   Provide a certificate of liability insurance or surety bond issued
by a company licensed to do business in the State of Minnesota approved by the
city as to form and content in amount of not less than $300,000 insuring the
owner for injuries inflicted by the dog;
      (3)   Provide proof of vaccinations;
      (4)   Provide the Animal Control Authority with the microchip information
and animal tag with the uniform dangerous animal symbol to be affixed to the
dog's collar at all times; and
      (5)   Provide proof of the sterilization of the dog within 30 days of the
designation of the dog as a dangerous dog.
   (D)   Dangerous dog regulations. The owner of a dangerous dog shall:
      (1)   Keep the dog in a proper enclosure when on the owner's premises;   
      (2)   When off the owner's premises, keep the dog muzzled and restrained
by a substantial leash or chain under the physical restraint of a responsible
person;
      (3)   Renew annually the registration for the duration of the dog's life;
      (4)   Register the dog as a dangerous dog in any new jurisdiction if the
dog is moved;
      (5)   Notify Animal Control of the change of the dog's residence or
ownership within 30 days;
      (6)   Sterilize the dog within 30 days;
      (7)   In the case of a tenant, disclose to the landlord before entering
into a lease and at lease renewal that the tenant owns a dangerous dog that
will reside at the property; and
      (8)   Disclose to any new owner of the dog's status as a dangerous dog
and notify Animal Control of any transfer of ownership.
   (E)   City park restrictions. No person shall allow a dog that has been
declared dangerous or potentially dangerous in city parks, including the dog
park, or on the city trails, unless the dog is muzzled and restrained by a
substantial chain or leash and is under the physical restraint of a responsible
person.
   (F)   Hearing.
      (1)   The City Administrator shall appoint a hearing panel of impartial
persons, one of whom shall be a licensed veterinarian, if available, to conduct
hearings as provided herein.
      (2)   The owner of a dog who has been given notice by the Animal Control
Authority that the dog has been declared to be a dangerous dog or a potentially
dangerous dog has the right to request a hearing on the validity of the
declaration by completing a request for appeal form within 14 days of the date
of notice and delivering the form together with the $100 fee for the appeal
hearing to the Animal Control Authority at the police department at 204 East
Pearl Street, Owatonna, Minnesota 55060 to the attention of the Police Chief.
The failure to file the request for appeal within the 14 days extinguishes the
right to a hearing and the designation of the dog as a dangerous dog or
potentially dangerous dog shall be final and the owner shall be subject to all
restrictions and regulations as set forth in the notice.
      (3)   Pending such hearing the owner shall:
         (a)   Keep the dog properly confined in a proper enclosure;   
         (b)   Keep the dog muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or
leash and under the physical restraint of a responsible person if the dog is
outside the enclosure; and   
         (c)   Notify the Animal Control Authority of the removal of a dog(s)
to a new location.   
      (4)   (a)   The hearing shall be held within 14 days of the owner's
request to determine the validity of the declaration of the dog as a dangerous
dog or potentially dangerous dog. After considering all evidence pertaining to
the dog, the hearing panel shall render its decision and order as it deems
proper, including but not limited to:
            1.   Finding that the dog is not a potentially dangerous dog or a
dangerous dog; or   
            2.   Finding that the dog is a potentially dangerous dog or a
dangerous dog and that the owner shall comply with the requirements in
divisions (B) and (C) of this section; and    
            3.   If necessary and in the interest of public safety, order the
Animal Control Authority to take the dog into custody, if the dog is not
currently in custody. Upon such order any person who fails or refuses to
release the dog to the Animal Control Authority shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.   
         (b)   The hearing panel shall issue its written decision within ten
days after the hearing which shall be delivered to the owner by hand delivery
or certified mail and a copy will be sent to the Animal Control Authority.
         (c)   Pursuant to M.S. § 347.541, subd. 4, if the designation of the
dog as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog is upheld by the hearing
panel the actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000 shall be the
responsibility of the dog's owner.
      (5)   Authority to order euthanization. The hearing panel, upon finding
that a dog is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part of the
disposition of the case, that the dog be euthanized based on a written order
containing findings of fact establishing that each of the following criteria
are present:
         (a)   The dog is dangerous, as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning, or multiple attacks;   
         (b)   The owner of the dog has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to sufficiently control the dog in order to prevent injury to
persons or other animals; and   
         (c)   The owner cannot, will not, does not, or otherwise refused to
provide proof of the liability insurance for the dog as required.   
   (G)   Seizure. Pursuant to M.S. § 347.54, the Animal Control Authority may
immediately seize any potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog where:
      (1)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is a
potentially dangerous dog or a dangerous dog, the dog is not validly registered
under M.S. § 347.51;
      (2)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is a
potentially dangerous dog or a dangerous dog, the owner does not secure the
proper liability insurance or surety coverage as required under M.S. § 347.51,
subd.2;
      (3)   The potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog is not maintained in
the proper enclosure;
      (4)   The potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog is outside the
proper enclosure and not under physical restraint of a responsible person as
required under M.S. § 347.51;
      (5)   The dangerous dog is not sterilized within 30 days, pursuant to
M.S. § 347.51; or
      (6)   The potentially dangerous dog is not sterilized if the hearing
panel orders that such sterilization is necessary and in the interest of public
safety.
   (H)   Criminal penalty.
      (1)   The owner of a dog declared dangerous or potentially dangerous who
fails to comply with the requirements of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, with penalties as provided under Minnesota law.
      (2)   It is a misdemeanor to remove a microchip from dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog; to fail to renew the registration of a potentially
dangerous dog or a dangerous dog; to fail to account for a dangerous dog's
death, transfer of ownership, or removal from the jurisdiction; to sign false
affidavit with respect to a dangerous dog's death, transfer of ownership, or
removal from the jurisdiction; or to fail to disclose ownership of a dangerous
or potentially dangerous dog to a property owner from whom the person rents
property.
(Ord. 1620, passed 7-6-2021)
NUISANCE ANIMALS AND FOWL AT LARGE; IMPOUNDING
§ 90.25 POUND AUTHORIZED.
   There is hereby authorized for the city a public pound, which said public
pound may be located within or outside the corporate limits and shall be placed
under the care and direction of an Animal Control Officer, which Animal Control
Officer shall be appointed by the Council and under the direction of the Chief
of Police.
(1992 Code, § 1005:00)
§ 90.26 ANIMALS AND FOWL AT LARGE.
   No domestic fowl nor any horse, colt, mule or any animal of the horse kind,
nor any cow, bull, ox, calf, meat cattle or any animal of the ox or bovine
kind, nor any sheep or swine shall be permitted to run, go or be at large in
the city.
(1992 Code, § 1005:05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 IMPOUNDING AND FEES AUTHORIZED.
   If any such fowl, horse, colt, mule, cow, bull, ox, calf, meat cattle,
sheep, swine or any animal of any kind named or referred to above, shall be
found at large in the city contrary to any provisions hereof, each and every
such animal may be impounded in the public pound and shall not be released
therefrom until the owner or some person on his or her behalf shall pay to the
Animal Control Officer reasonable fees for the impounding and care of such
animal, which said fees are to be duly determined and fixed by the Council from
time to time.
(1992 Code, § 1005:10)
§ 90.28 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer and police officers and
lawful for any person to take up any animal found at large contrary to or in
violation of any provision of this subchapter, and take such animal to the
public pound and the Animal Control Officer shall receive into the public pound
all animals brought there in pursuance of any provision of this subchapter, and
take proper care of, and provide proper food and drink for, all animals so
impounded, and shall deliver to the owner, or owner’s agent any animal which
has been so impounded, upon receipt of fees and costs for such impounding,
keeping, feeding, caring for and discharging such animal as are provided
therein.
(1992 Code, § 1005:15)
§ 90.29 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   After any animal has been impounded under any provision of this
subchapter for a period of 48 hours, without being redeemed as provided herein,
it shall be lawful for such Animal Control Officer to sell such animal at
public auction, to the highest bidder for cash.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer shall, before any such sale is made, give
not less than three days’ notice of the time and place of such sale.
   (C)   Such notice shall contain the number, kind and a general and full
description of any animal or animals to be so sold, which said notice, written
or printed, shall be posted in three public places within the corporate limits
of the city.
   (D)   For the making and posting of said notices, the said Animal Control
Officer is authorized and empowered to charge and collect the amount set by the
Council before such animal shall be released.
   (E)   If the owner or his or her agent shall, at any time prior to sale and,
after any animal shall have been noticed for sale as herein authorized, pay all
fees and costs for impounding, caring for and noticing such animal for sale,
then such animal shall not be sold, but shall be released by the Animal Control
Officer to such owner or agent.
(1992 Code, § 1005:20)
§ 90.30 SALE.
   Whenever any animal or fowl shall be sold as herein provided, the Animal
Control Officer shall pay the proceeds into the treasury of the city.
(1992 Code, § 1005:25)
§ 90.31 REDEMPTION OF ANIMAL FROM PURCHASER.
   When any animal is sold under the provisions of this subchapter, it shall be
a condition of such sale that the purchaser shall keep and retain possession of
such animal for a period of 60 days, and that the owner of any such animal may
redeem the same at any time before the expiration of said 60 days by paying
reasonable costs and charges for keeping such animal, together with the sum
paid by such purchaser for such animal, and interest thereon at the rate of 7%
per annum.
(1992 Code, § 1005:30)
§ 90.32 BREAKING OPEN OR INTERFERING WITH IMPOUNDMENT.
   No person shall break open or in any manner directly or indirectly advise,
direct or aid in breaking open the public pound. No person shall hinder, delay,
interfere with or obstruct in any manner any person engaged in driving any
animal to the public pound as provided for in this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 1005:35) Penalty, see §
90.99
DEER FEEDING
§ 90.45 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city through the management of
recreational feeding of white-tailed deer within the city as part of a
comprehensive strategy to reduce or eliminate negative impacts experienced as a
result of an increasing deer population in the city.
(Ord. 1450, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 90.46 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Recreational feeding of deer often causes deer concentrations which
develop into depredation and other public safety problems.
   (B)   Depredation of garden crops and landscaping plants is increasing as
deer habitat decreases and deer populations increase within particular areas
and neighborhoods in the city.
   (C)   High deer populations can result in increased car/deer crashes within
the community, causing public safety concerns and negative economic impacts
such as increased car insurance premium costs.
   (D)   High deer densities also contribute to the possible spread of chronic
diseases among deer populations and chronic wasting disease.
   (E)   (1)   The intent of the City Council is not to unreasonably infringe
upon the recreational enjoyment of city residents who observe wildlife and
enhance wildlife habitat on their property.
      (2)   However, the purpose of this artificial feeding ban is to eliminate
these deer attractions which, when combined with other management strategies,
should reduce, over time, the depredation impacts to adjacent residents, as
well as assure the safety of the traveling public on city streets and
thoroughfares.
(Ord. 1450, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 90.47 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or group to place or permit to be
placed on the ground, or within five feet of the ground surface, either on
property owned or controlled by such person or on property owned by others, any
grain, fodder, fruit, vegetables, nuts, hay or other edible materials, which
may reasonably be expected to intentionally result in deer feeding, unless such
items are screened or protected in a manner that prevents deer from feeding on
them. Also prohibited are salt licks and power or liquid deer attractants,
unless legally used for deer management control purposes.
   (B)   Living fruit trees and other live vegetation shall not be considered
as deer feeding.
(Ord. 1450, passed 12-1-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.48 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This prohibition shall not apply to:
      (1)   Veterinarians, City Animal Control Officers or county, state or
federal game officials, who are in the course of their duties, have deer in
custody or under their management;
      (2)   Persons authorized by the city to implement the deer management
program approved by the City Council;
      (3)   Any food placed upon the property for purposes of trapping or
otherwise taking deer where such trapping or taking is pursuant to a permit
issued by the State Department of Natural Resources;
      (4)   Persons feeding birds using self-enclosed feeding devices or
containers;
      (5)   The use of straw, hay or straw-related materials for erosion
control, mulching, gardening or other landscape purposes; and/or
      (6)   Persons on property with a livestock operation not intentionally
feeding deer.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, LIVESTOCK OPERATION means an
operation commonly associated with the keeping of animals, including but not
limited to the keeping of horses, cattle or chickens, raised for home use or
profit.
(Ord. 1450, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 90.49 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and publication.
(Ord. 1450, passed 12-1-2009)
FEEDING CERTAIN NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED
§ 90.60 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter is enacted to establish standards for the regulation
of certain non-domestic animals herein referred to as “Wild Animals” in the
city to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the public.
   (B)   The principle objective of this subchapter is: to prevent nuisance
conditions associated with the feeding of wild animals, specifically disruption
of their natural feeding habits, their concentration at artificial feeding
centers making them more susceptible to disease transmission, the attraction of
predators, and the accumulation of feces in and around the area of artificial
feeding.
(Ord. 1521, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 90.61 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definition shall apply to this subchapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning:
   WILD ANIMAL. For purposes of this subchapter WILD ANIMAL means and includes
raccoons, deer, turkey, ducks, and geese.
(Ord. 1521, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 90.62 FEEDINGS OF WILD ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall feed or allow the feeding of wild animals
as defined in §
90.61 within the city. For the purpose of this section, feeding shall mean
provision of non-birdseed mixtures, grain, fruit, vegetables, hay, mineral salt
or other edible material. Living food sources, such as fruit trees and other
live vegetation, shall not be considered as prohibited feeding.
   (B)   Exceptions. This prohibition shall not apply to veterinarians, city,
county, state or Federal officials who in the course of their duties have wild
animals in their custody or under their management.
(Ord. 1521, passed 4-7-2015)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The violation of §
90.12 of this chapter shall constitute a petty offense, as defined in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and subject to the penalty therein provided.
(1992 Code, § 1025:100)
   (C)   (1)   Responsible authority. The City Police Department and the City
Engineering Department shall enforce the provisions of §§
90.45 through
90.49 and §§
90.60 et seq. of this chapter.
      (2)   Civil remedies. Sections
90.45 through
90.49 and §§
90.60 et seq. of this chapter may be enforced by injunction, action for
abatement or other appropriate civil remedy to eliminate a public nuisance.
      (3)   Criminal penalties. Notwithstanding anything in the city code to
the contrary, a person who violates any provisions of §§
90.45 through
90.49 and §§
90.60 et seq. of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor. The first
violation of §§
90.45 through
90.49 and §§
90.60 et seq. of this chapter shall result in a written warning. Any subsequent
violation shall result in a citation for the petty misdemeanor offense. Each
act of violation and each day a violation occurs or continues is a separate
offense. In all cases, the city shall be entitled to collect the cost of
prosecution to the extent outlined by law, the Rules of Criminal Procedure and
the Rules of Court.
(Ord. 1450, passed 12-1-2009; Ord. 1521, passed 4-7-2015)
CHAPTER 91: RECREATION AND LEISURE
Section
General Park and Beach Regulations
   
91.01   Closing hours
   
91.02   Liquor in parks and beaches; permit required; notice to Police
Department
   
91.03   Fire in city parks
   
91.04   Removal of natural or vegetative material
   
91.05   Exemptions
Bathing Beaches
   
91.20   Beach season
   
91.21   Hours of supervised swimming
   
91.22   Rules and regulations
   
91.23   Lifeguards; conduct and authority
   
91.24   Liquor prohibited
   
91.25   Permit; exemption
Lake Kohlmier
   
91.40   Rules and regulations
   
91.41   Swimming restrictions
   
91.42   Watercraft restrictions
   
91.43   Motor restrictions
   
91.44   Motorized vehicle restrictions
   
91.45   Boat launch restrictions
   
91.46   Exemptions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Curfew, see §
132.01
   Fee Schedule, see
Ch. 35, App. A
   Loitering, see
Ch. 96
   Public property damage prohibited, see §
131.06
GENERAL PARK AND BEACH REGULATIONS
§ 91.01 CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   All city parks in the city, except Cashman Park, shall be closed from
10:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. on the following day, exempting the use of hard-
surfaced lighted trails.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Programmed parks with city activities extending beyond 10:00 p.m.
      (2)   Approved activities permitted through park permit, event permit or
scheduled by Parks and Recreation.
      (3)   Special-use parks:
         (a)   River Springs Water Park - only open during posted hours;
         (b)   Brooktree Golf Course - only open during posted hours;
         (c)   Archery Range on Elm - closes at dusk during the season.
(1992 Code, § 250:00) (Ord. 1220, passed 12-21-1999; Ord. 1662, passed 8-7-
2024)
§ 91.02 LIQUOR IN PARKS AND BEACHES; PERMIT REQUIRED; NOTICE TO POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Liquor in parks and beaches. 
      (1)   No person or persons shall display, consume or possess any
intoxicating liquor, 3.2% malt liquor or intoxicating malt beverage within
parking areas, roadways, sidewalks abutting or the grounds in general of
Central Park, Cashman Park, Kaplan’s Woods Parkway and Archery Park on Elm
Avenue in the city.
      (2)   Central Park, special events, temporary on-sale liquor license. A
temporary on-sale liquor license may be issued to a qualified non-profit
organization pursuant to §
113.052(E), during a special event sponsored by the city or such organization
for which a park permit has been granted.
         (a)   Beer and wine. Sales of intoxicating beverages under the
temporary license shall be limited to malt liquor (beer or ale) as defined in §
113.006, or wine as defined in §
113.025.
         (b)   On park premises. Persons may only consume or possess those
intoxicating beverages on park premises sold by the holder of the on-sale
temporary liquor license.
         (c)   Notice to police department. At the time of issuance of the
temporary on-sale license for the event, the City Administrator shall send a
notice of the date, time, and place of the event to the Chief of Police of the
city for information and for guidance.
         (d)   Governing law. Temporary licenses issued under this section are
subject to all the laws and ordinances governing the sale of intoxicating
liquor.
(1992 Code, § 250:05)
   (B)   Permit required for large container of alcoholic beverages. Except in
parks listed in division (A) above, alcoholic beverages may be carried into any
park for consumption; providing that, for such purpose no container of greater
than two-quart capacity shall be allowed without permit from the office of the
Director of Parks, Recreation and Streets.
(1992 Code, § 250:10)
   (C)   Application for permit for large container of alcoholic beverages in
park.
      (1)   Application for permit to have large container of alcoholic
beverages in a park shall be made on the forms provided therefor, at least five
days before the event, to the office of the Director of Parks, Recreation and
Streets.
      (2)   An application fee of $10 and a $50 damage deposit shall accompany
the application.
      (3)   If, in the opinion of the Director of Parks, Recreation and
Streets, no extraordinary or unusual maintenance burdens result from the
permitted activity, the surety deposit shall be refunded to permittee. The
amount of the costs of any extraordinary maintenance shall be deducted from the
surety deposit and retained by the city as reimbursement of those costs.
      (4)   A statement of any charges and costs shall be given to permittee
with, or in lieu of, refund.
      (5)   Director of Parks, Recreation and Streets may deny subsequent
permits to any applicant causing extraordinary or unusual maintenance costs.
(1992 Code, § 250:15)
   (D)   Notice to Police Department. At the time of issuance of permit for
larger container of alcoholic beverages, a notice of time and place for which
permit is issued shall be delivered to the office of the Chief of Police of the
city for information and guidance.
(1992 Code, § 250:20)
   (E)   Glass beverage containers prohibited.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (E), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         CITY PARKS. Include: Minot Brown, Cashman, Central, Crocus, Dartt’s,
Fremont, Gainey, Hammann, Jaycee, Kaplan’s Woods Parkway, Kelly, Manthey, Maple
Creek Greenbelt, Mineral Springs, Morehouse, West Hills, Willow and Steele
County Fairgrounds-Ball Diamonds and Park.
         GLASS BEVERAGE CONTAINER. All glass receptacles including bottles,
jars and glass tumblers containing potable liquids, including intoxicating
liquors, 3.2% malt liquors, soft drink beverages, fruit juices, dairy product
drinks and excludes receptacles containing milk or baby formula used and
possessed for the nursing of infants and receptacles containing prescription
medications used and possessed by a person for whom such prescription is
prescribed or possessed by a person caring for such person for whom the
prescription medicine is prescribed.
         PERSON. Every individual, copartnership, corporation or association of
one or more individuals.
      (2)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for a person to possess,
bring, carry, scatter, dump, deposit, leave or have under his or her actual
physical control a glass beverage container in or within a city park.
(1992 Code, § 250:25)
(Ord. 1361, passed 2-15-2005; Ord. 1572, passed 10-17-2017; Ord. 1618, passed
5-18-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 FIRE IN CITY PARKS.
   (A)   Fires. No fire shall be set in any park, except a fire for picnic
purposes at grill sites designated by the Park and Recreation Department.
   (B)   Posting of notices. The Director of Parks, Recreation and Streets is
authorized to post notice prohibiting the use of grill sites or tobacco smoking
when the Director determines that their use and existing conditions constitute
a fire hazard.
(1992 Code, § 250:30) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 REMOVAL OF NATURAL OR VEGETATIVE MATERIAL.
   No person shall remove from any park any plant or other natural object which
exists in nature.
(1992 Code, § 250:35) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   Authorized city personnel, when acting in the performance of their assigned
duties, shall be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter. Temporary
exemptions from this subchapter may be obtained through a permit issued by the
City Council for special events.
(1992 Code, § 250:40)
BATHING BEACHES
§ 91.20 BEACH SEASON.
   The date of the season opening and closing of the municipal bathing beach
shall be established by the Park and Recreation Board of the city each calendar
year.
(1992 Code, § 205:00)
§ 91.21 HOURS OF SUPERVISED SWIMMING.
   (A)   The Lake Kohlmier Beach shall be attended by lifeguards who shall work
at hours and time designated by the Director of Parks and Recreation.
   (B)   The Beach Manager or any one of the lifeguards on duty at the beach
may close the bathing beach whenever, in their judgment, the water or the
weather does not permit bathing. No person shall be permitted in the water
during the periods the beach is declared closed by a lifeguard.
   (C)   No person shall swim or be at the beach outside established hours.
(1992 Code, § 205:05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall throw, cast, deposit, damage, lay, place or scatter in
the water or upon any bathing beach any lighted cigars or cigarettes or any
glass, bottles, nails, tacks, wire, crockery, can or other sharp or cutting
substance, or any refuse matter or article or thing of any kind. If any glass
is broken, the person responsible for the breakage shall immediately pick up
the pieces and place them in a trash container.
   (B)   No person shall bring into or use in the water artificial floats of
any kind or description, with the exception of non-motor-powered watercraft,
which has been licensed and approved by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
   (C)   No person shall bring, drive, lead, carry or permit any dog or other
animal, whether leashed or unleashed, muzzled or unmuzzled, onto the premises
of any bathing beach.
   (D)   No person shall light or make use of any fire on the beach, except in
ovens or locations provided for that purpose.
   (E)   No person shall swim or bathe in the water fronting the bathing beach
during:
      (1)   Electrical storms or in dangerous or unauthorized areas; or
      (2)   Outside the designated swimming area at the Lake Kohlmier Beach.
   (F)   No swimmer or bather shall enter the water or onto the bathing beach,
unless clothed in a suitable bathing suit.
   (G)   No person shall change clothes on the beach or in vehicles parked at
the beach.
   (H)   No person shall appear in a state of nudity, nor shall any person make
any indecent exposure of his or her person in any park or upon any bathing
beach.
   (I)   No person shall bring or carry any bicycle upon a bathing beach,
except to install such vehicle in racks that are provided by the city.
   (J)   No person shall carry on unnecessary conversation with lifeguards; or
falsely call for help or assistance, or stand or sit upon or cling to any
lifeguard towers; or, except in an emergency, go into or cling to any lifeguard
boats.
   (K)   No person shall conduct oneself upon any bathing beach or in the water
in such a manner as to jeopardize the safety and health of himself, herself and
others.
   (L)   No person having, or apparently having, any infectious disease shall
be admitted at the bathing beach, or shall be permitted in the water.
   (M)   No person, except children, their parents, custodians or guardians,
shall be permitted in any play area on the beaches designated for children.
(1992 Code, § 205:10) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 LIFEGUARDS; CONDUCT AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   All lifeguards shall be subject to rules and regulations prescribed by
the city.
(1992 Code, § 205:15)
   (B)   The duly appointed lifeguards are hereby authorized and empowered to
order swimmers out of the bathing beach waters at such time and under such
conditions as they deem necessary for the public welfare.
(1992 Code, § 205:20)
§ 91.24 LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession or to
consume any intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor on the Lake Kohlmier Beach,
upon the waters of Lake Kohlmier or anywhere within Kaplan’s Woods Parkway.
(1992 Code, § 205:25) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 PERMIT; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   The Director of the City Park and Recreation Department or any civic,
fraternal, religious or other non-profit organization, as defined in Minn.
Stat. § 349.12, as it may be amended from time to time, may apply for an
exemption permit from the prohibition in §
91.24 of this chapter; provided:
      (1)   The permit is requested in connection with an event sponsored by
the city or such organization;
      (2)   The applicant pays a permit fee in the amount as may be established
by the City Council from time to time;
      (3)   The exemption shall be limited to the date or dates of the event:
and
      (4)   The applicant abides by all park regulations and state and local
laws.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and publication.
(Ord. 1492, passed 1-22-2013)
LAKE KOHLMIER
§ 91.40 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All of the surface area of Lake Kohlmier shall be subject to this
subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 207:00)
§ 91.41 SWIMMING RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall swim or bathe in Lake Kohlmier, except at the designated
swimming area at the municipal beach during times designated by the City Parks
and Recreation Department. No person shall jump, dive, or enter Lake Kohlmier
to swim from any dock or other structure in or abutting Lake Kohlmier, except
from authorized structures at the designated swimming area at the municipal
beach during times designated by the City Parks and Recreation Department.
(1992 Code, § 207:05) (Ord. 1616, passed 5-4-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 WATERCRAFT RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall operate or use any watercraft or any inflatable or other
float-type device, except for licensed watercraft or United States Coast Guard
approved personal flotation devices.
(1992 Code, § 207:10) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43 MOTOR RESTRICTIONS.
   No motor shall be used on Lake Kohlmier other than an electric trolling
motor not to exceed three horsepower.
(1992 Code, § 207:15) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.44 MOTORIZED VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS.
   No automobile, snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle or motorized vehicle of any
kind shall be operated on the surface of Lake Kohlmier during its frozen state
or on the public beaches and shoreline contiguous thereto.
(1992 Code, § 207:20) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.45 BOAT LAUNCH RESTRICTIONS.
   No vehicle other than a vehicle unloading a watercraft or ice fishing house
shall be permitted on the boat launch access road and boat launch parking lot.
(1992 Code, § 207:25) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.46 EXEMPTIONS.
   Authorized resource management emergency and enforcement personnel, when
acting in the performance of their assigned duties, shall be exempt from the
provisions of this subchapter. Temporary exemptions from this subchapter may be
obtained through a permit issued by the City Council for special events, trials
or races.
(1992 Code, § 207:30)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.05 of this chapter is guilty of a petty offense, as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and subject to the penalty for violation as
therein prescribed.
(1992 Code, § 250:45)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE ALARMS
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Installation of systems
   
92.04   Schedule of payments and rates
   
92.05   Unlawful act
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter regulates the use of fire alarms from misuse through frequency
of false alarms.
(1992 Code, § 140:00) (Ord. 1195, passed 11-17-1998)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Includes any alarm installation designed to be used for the
prevention or detection of fire on the premises.
   ALARM USER. The person or business using an alarm system to protect the
premises, regardless of whether the system is owned or leased.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE. An automatic alarm system which automatically
sends, over telephone lines, a prerecorded voice message or signal indicating
the existence of an emergency situation.
   CALENDAR YEAR. The period January 1 through December 31 of each year.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal eliciting a response by personnel of the city’s
Fire Department when a situation requiring a response does not, in fact, exist,
and which is caused by the activation of an alarm system through mechanical
failure, improper maintenance of the alarm system or the building, structure or
facility, alarm malfunction, improper installation or the inadvertence of the
alarm user or its employees, family or agents. A FALSE ALARM does not include
an alarm caused by climatic conditions such as tornadoes, thunderstorms,
utility line mishaps, violent conditions of nature, or any other conditions
which are clearly beyond the control of the alarm manufacturer, installer or
user.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Commercial, industrial, business, state agencies, special
purpose units of government, apartment complexes, schools and hospitals.
   RESIDENTIAL ALARM USER. Occupied housing units, residential homes and
condominiums.
(1992 Code, § 140:05) (Ord. 1195, passed 11-17-1998)
§ 92.03 INSTALLATION OF SYSTEMS.
   No person shall install an alarm system or use, monitor and possess an
operative alarm system, which utilizes taped or prerecorded messages, which
deliver a telephone alarm message to the Police or Fire Departments. No
automatic dialing services or systems are permitted in any form, including
automatic dialing of the emergency number 911.
(1992 Code, § 140:10) (Ord. 1195, passed 11-17-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS AND RATES.
   (A)   Residential and non-residential users of alarm systems shall be
permitted two false alarms per calendar year.
   (B)   Any alarm user who has more than two false alarms at the same premises
in any calendar year shall pay a fee set from time to time by ordinance of the
City Council.
   (C)   There is hereby established a 30-day grace period for all newly
installed alarm systems. All false alarms occurring during this period shall
not be considered part of the two allowable false alarms per year. The
installation date must be verified by a dated sales receipt for the alarm
system or a dated invoice from the installer of the alarm system.
   (D)   The false alarm is excused if prior notification stating the exact
time and date is given to the dispatch center, and the alarm is activated for
the purposes of testing or upgrading the alarm system.
   (E)   All payments provided for in this section shall be made to the city
within 30 days after mailing a statement to the alarm user. Payments not made
within 30 days are delinquent. All delinquent charges and penalties shall be
certified by the City Clerk-Treasurer to the County Auditor each year providing
for assessment of the delinquent amounts against the property of the delinquent
alarm user.
   (F)   All information submitted in compliance with this section shall be
held in confidence and shall be deemed a confidential record exempt from
discovery to the extent permitted by law. Subject to requirement of
confidentiality, the Fire Chief may develop and maintain statistics for the
purpose of on-going alarm system evaluation.
(1992 Code, § 140:15) (Ord. 1195, passed 11-17-1998; Ord. 1201, passed 1-19-
1999)
§ 92.05 UNLAWFUL ACT.
   It is unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with the
regulations set forth in this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 140:20) (Ord. 1195, passed 11-17-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
93.001   Nuisances defined
   
93.002   Public nuisances affecting health
   
93.003   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
93.004   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
93.005   City officers; duties
   
93.006   Abatement procedures
   
93.007   Recovery of cost
Specific Nuisances
   
93.020   Handbills, circulars and advertising matter
   
93.021   Junked vehicles
   
93.022   Lowlands, stagnant water, fill and drain
   
93.023   Right of privacy (Green River)
   
93.024   Pollution of streams, creeks, ponds or rivers
   
93.025   Fertilizers containing phosphorus
   
93.026   Smoke and other emissions
   
93.027   Unwholesome trades; slaughterhouses
   
93.028   Cats
   
93.029   Noise in public parks
   
93.030   Use of cannabis in public
Burning Trash
   
93.040   Definitions
   
93.041   Open fire refuse burning prohibited
   
93.042   Trash burning regulated
   
93.043   Fireplaces and outdoor cooking fires
   
93.044   Official fires
   
93.045   Authorization for setting approved fires
Weeds, Grasses, Harmful Vegetation
   
93.060   Definitions
   
93.061   Height restrictions
   
93.062   Duties of owners, lessees and occupants
   
93.063   Cutting by Weed Inspector
   
93.064   Hazardous plantings on private property
Repeat Nuisance Call Service Fees
   
93.075   Purpose
   
93.076   Scope and application
   
93.077   Definition
   
93.078   Fee amount
   
93.079   Notice
   
93.080   Right to appeal
   
93.081   Legal remedies not exclusive
 
   
93.999   Penalty
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 93.001 NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   All acts described, regulated and prohibited in the provisions hereof
are hereby deemed to be, and are hereby declared to be, nuisances and all of
such acts shall constitute penal offenses and, in addition to abatement as in
this chapter, shall be punishable as penal offenses.
(1992 Code, § 1000:00)
   (B)   Whoever, by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty,
intentionally does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public
nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
      (1)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
      (2)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage, any
public highway or right-of-way or waters used by the public;
      (3)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or this
chapter to be a public nuisance and for which no sentence is specifically
provided;
      (4)   Maintains or permits a condition in violation of this chapter; or
      (5)   Maintains or permits a condition in violation of §§
151.01 through
151.11 of the City of Owatonna Minnesota Housing Code.
(1992 Code, § 1090:00)
(Ord. 1137, passed 5-21-1996; Ord. 1352, passed 8-3-2004) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.002 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities; and
   (J)   Any offensive trade or business, as defined by statute, not operating
under local license.
(1992 Code, § 1090:05) (Ord. 1137, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 93.003 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All unlicensed gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in such occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or unlicensed gambling
houses; and
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining such a place.
(1992 Code, § 1090:10) (Ord. 1137, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 93.004 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All noises prohibited by law;
   (E)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds, except under such conditions as
are permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (F)   Radio aerials or television antennas erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (G)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk which
causes large crowds of people to gather, obstructing traffic and the free use
of the street or sidewalk;
   (H)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, or so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not
constructed and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (I)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
properties. This provision does not prohibit water incident to non-commercial
car washing;
   (J)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobiles or automotive parts, or other material;
   (K)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
such other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person
coming on the premises where it is located;
   (L)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (M)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over such
substance;
   (N)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property; and
   (O)   Failure to repair a broken water line by an owner or occupant causing
the unrestricted flow of water on private or public property.
(1992 Code, § 1090:15) (Ord. 1137, passed 5-21-1996; Ord. 1533, passed 12-1-
2015)
§ 93.005 CITY OFFICERS; DUTIES.
   The city (Engineer, Street Superintendent, Police Department, Building
Official or other designated official) shall enforce the provisions of this
subchapter relating to nuisances affecting public safety. The Police Department
shall enforce provisions relating to other nuisances and shall assist the other
designated officer(s) in the enforcement of provisions relating to nuisances
affecting public safety. Such officers shall have the power to inspect private
premises as allowed by law and may obtain search warrants as necessary and take
all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance of public
nuisances.
(1992 Code, § 1090:20) (Ord. 1137, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 93.006 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
the officer charged with enforcement on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises are not occupied, the owner of record is unknown or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of Council hearing, notice
of Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in Minn. Stat. § 463.17 (Hazardous and
Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in Minn. Stat. §
463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time
to time.
   (B)   Procedure. Whenever the officer charged with enforcement determines
that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on premises in the city,
the officer shall notify in writing the owner of record or occupant of the
premises of such fact and order that such nuisance be terminated or abated. The
notice of violation shall specify the steps to be taken to abate the nuisance
and the time within which the nuisance is to be abated. If the notice of
violation is not complied with within the time specified, the enforcing officer
shall report that fact forthwith to the Council. Thereafter, the Council may,
after notice to the owner or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine
that the condition identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance, and
further order that if the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by
the Council, the city may seek injunctive relief or summary enforcement
pursuant to divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) above will permit a continuing nuisance to
unreasonably endanger public health, safety or welfare, the City Council may
order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with summary
enforcement, the officer charged with enforcement shall determine that a public
nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city and that delay
in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health, safety
or welfare. The enforcement officer shall notify in writing the occupant or
owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance and of the city’s intention
to seek summary enforcement and the time and place of the Council meeting to
consider the question of summary enforcement. The City Council shall determine
whether or not the condition identified in the notice to the owner or occupant
is a nuisance, whether public health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably
endangered by delay in abatement required to complete the procedure set forth
in division (A) above, and may order that such nuisance be immediately
terminated or abated. If the nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated,
the City Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
(1992 Code, § 1090:25) (Ord. 1137, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 93.007 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk-Treasurer or other official
designated by the Council shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the
owner. Thereupon, the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office
of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Assessment. If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on
private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public sidewalks, the
growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled portion of streets
or unsound or insect-infected trees, the Clerk-Treasurer shall, on or before
September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the total unpaid
charges along with all other such charges as well as other charges for current
services to be assessed under Minn. Stat. § 429.101, as it may be amended from
time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The Council may then spread the charges against such property
under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County
Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding ten, as the Council may determine in each case.
(1992 Code, § 1090:30) (Ord. 1137, passed 5-21-1996)
SPECIFIC NUISANCES
§ 93.020 HANDBILLS, CIRCULARS AND ADVERTISING MATTER.
   No person shall leave, distribute or scatter, for advertising purposes, any
handbill, circular or notice of any kind in or on any street, alley or public
place within the area of the city bounded by Rose Street on the north, by Elm
Avenue on the east, by Mill Street on the south and by the Straight River on
the west, nor in any automobile or other motor vehicle of any kind at any place
in the city.
(1992 Code, § 1020:00) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.021 JUNKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration. The following is declared to be a public nuisance
adversely affecting the public peace, safety and general welfare and is
prohibited. It shall be a public nuisance for any person to pile, store or keep
wrecked, junked or abandoned vehicles on private property within the corporate
limits of the city, except as hereinafter set forth in division (D) below.
(1992 Code, § 1035:00)
   (B)   Unlicensed or incapacitated vehicles. Any vehicle shall be deemed to
be included under division (A) above if said vehicle does not have attached
thereto a valid and current license plate issued by the proper state agency, or
if such vehicle, because of mechanical deficiency, is incapable of movement
under its own power and is parked or stored outside for a period in excess of
ten days.
(1992 Code, § 1035:05)
   (C)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the Police Department to
investigate all complaints submitted to the Council and if, after
investigation, there appears to be a violation of this section, the
investigating officer shall give owner of vehicles notice of violation. If the
violation still exists after the expiration of the ten-day notice, an officer
is authorized to sign a complaint.
(1992 Code, § 1035:10)
   (D)   Special permit or licensed business. Nothing herein contained shall be
construed to apply to any junk dealer licensed by the city. Persons operating a
gasoline filling station or storage garage, where no repair work is carried on,
in a B-2 or B-3 Commercial District or I-1 or I-2 Industrial District, or
persons operating an automobile sales service in a Commercial District, B-2, B-
3, I-1 or I-2 Industrial District, or any person in an I-1 or I-2 Industrial
District, may be granted a special permit for the purpose of keeping or storing
a junked vehicle in the district authorized for a period of not to exceed six
months. Application for such a permit shall be made at the office of the
Building Inspector, who is authorized to issue such a permit upon application
therefor and upon the payment of a permit fee in the amount duly established by
the Council from time to time. No permit may be renewed, nor may the time of
the permit be extended, without the prior approval of the Council upon such
terms or conditions as the Council may prescribe.
(1992 Code, § 1035:15)
(Ord. 1268, passed 9-4-2001) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.022 LOWLANDS, STAGNANT WATER, FILL AND DRAIN.
   (A)   Low places prohibited. No person shall cause or permit low ground
where water is liable to collect and become stagnant to exist within the
corporate limits of the city.
(1992 Code, § 1040:00)
   (B)   Investigation and report. Upon being notified as to the existence of
such low ground, the Council may refer such matter to the City Engineer for an
investigation and report on such condition, its cause, if known, and as to
whether such condition constitutes a hazard. Whereupon, he or she shall cause
an investigation thereof to be made and shall file report with the Council of
the condition, including a description of the property involved and the name or
names of the persons owning such property.
(1992 Code, § 1040:05)
   (C)   Notice to fill or drain. Upon receipt of such report from the City
Engineer by the Council and if it appears to the Council that such low
condition does exist and water is liable to collect therein and become stagnant
and that the same constitutes a hazard, the Council shall cause the Clerk-
Treasurer to give written notice to the owner or owners of such land that such
owner or owners shall, within 30 days of the receipt of such notice, drain or
fill such low place.
(1992 Code, § 1040:10)
   (D)   Work to be done by municipality. Whenever the notice provided for in
division (C) above is not complied with, the Council may, by resolution, direct
the filling or draining of such low place, as the case may be. The cost of such
work shall be paid initially from the General Fund and then assessed by the
Council against the property benefitted. If the assessment is not paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days after the Clerk-Treasurer has mailed written
notice to the owner of the property so benefitted, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
certify the amount of the assessment to the County Auditor for collection in
the same manner as other special assessments.
(1992 Code, § 1040:15)
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.023 RIGHT OF PRIVACY (GREEN RIVER).
   (A)   Nuisances affecting right of privacy. The practice of going in and
upon private residences in the city by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant
merchants and transient vendors for the purpose of soliciting orders for the
sale of goods, wares, merchandise or services of any kind, or for the purpose
of peddling the same, upon private residences whose owners or occupants have
placed upon or near the usual entrance thereto a sign bearing the notice
“Peddlers and Solicitors Prohibited” or upon private residences whose owners or
occupants have not requested or invited them to do so, is hereby declared to be
a nuisance.
(1992 Code, § 1045:00)
   (B)   Applicability. This section shall not apply to persons duly licensed
or specifically exempted from licensing under the Constitution and laws of the
state or the ordinances of the city, at such times as such persons are
conducting only the activity described in such laws and ordinances; it shall
not apply to persons making an initiatory uninvited call upon householders of
the city as a preliminary to the subsequent establishment of a regular route
service for the sale and delivery to customers of the daily necessities of life
which are perishable or subject to spoiling within a reasonably short time; and
it shall not apply to charitable organizations and representatives thereof duly
registered under Laws of Minnesota 1961, Ch. 309, Minn. Stat. §§ 309.50 to
309.61, as they may be amended from time to time, or those specifically
exempted from registration under the provisions thereof.
(1992 Code, § 1045:15)
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.024 POLLUTION OF STREAMS, CREEKS, PONDS OR RIVERS.
   (A)   Acts prohibited. The act of dumping or discharging any raw sewage,
garbage, refuse or other waste, including, but not limited to, gasoline, oils,
crank-case drainings, acids or caustics, directly or indirectly into any
stream, creek, pond, river or other water within the corporate limits of the
city is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and is prohibited.
(1992 Code, § 1050:00)
   (B)   Treatment of sewage.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit or prevent the discharge of
toilets, drains or other fixtures from any home or building into the municipal
sanitary sewage system, or into a privately owned sewage disposal system where
no public municipal sanitary sewer system is available and which privately
owned system is of an approved type and is adequate to prevent pollution of any
stream, creek, pond, river or other water course within the corporate limits of
the city.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to authorize the
discharge of wastes into the municipal sanitary sewer system which wastes may
be, or have been, determined by the Council to be toxic to microbial life or
otherwise detrimental to the municipal sewage disposal system.
(1992 Code, § 1050:05)
   (C)   Enforcement. The City Engineer shall be and hereby is charged with the
enforcement of the provisions of this section.
(1992 Code, § 1050:10)
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.025 FERTILIZERS CONTAINING PHOSPHORUS.
   (A)   Purpose. The city finds and determines that data indicate that water
quality of lakes, ponds, rivers and streams and other waters may be maintained
or improved where the city regulates the amount of lawn fertilizer and other
chemicals entering such waters as a result of storm water runoff or other
causes. The purpose of this section is to set forth regulations which will
restrict the amount of fertilizers containing phosphorus which may be applied
within the city.
(1992 Code, § 1052:00)
   (B)   Fertilizer content. No person, firm, corporation, franchise or a
commercial or non-commercial applicator, including a homeowner and renter,
shall apply any lawn fertilizer, liquid or granular, within the city which
contains any amount of phosphorus or other compound containing phosphorus, such
as phosphate, except:
      (1)   The naturally occurring phosphorus in unadulterated natural or
organic fertilizing products such as yard waste compost; or
      (2)   As otherwise provided in division (C) below.
(1992 Code, § 1052:05)
   (C)   Exemption to phosphorus prohibition.
      (1)   The prohibition against the use of phosphorus shall not apply to:
         (a)   Newly established or developed turf and lawn areas during first
growing season;
         (b)   Turf and lawn areas which soil tests confirm are below
phosphorus levels established by the University of Minnesota Extension
Services. The lawn fertilizer application shall not contain an amount of
phosphorus exceeding the amount of phosphorus and the appropriate application
rate recommended in the soil test evaluation; or
         (c)   Heavy use sports turf areas.
      (2)   Phosphorus applied as lawn fertilizer pursuant to the
aforementioned exemptions shall be watered into the soil where it is
immobilized and generally protected from loss of runoff.
   (D)   Effective date. The effective date of this section is 1-1-2004.
(1992 Code, § 1052:10)
(Ord. 1282, passed 6-17-2002) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.026 SMOKE AND OTHER EMISSIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited emissions. The emission of dense smoke or any smoke
containing soot, ashes, cinders, dust or other solid substance, or pungent,
noxious or disagreeable odors, in a sufficient quantity to permit the deposit
of soot or other such substance therein, within the corporate limits of the
city, or which smoke is dense enough to form a cloud which cannot be seen
through, from any smokestack, chimney or discharge pipe from any furnace,
stove, locomotive, stationary engine or other burning device within the said
limits and territory, shall be deemed and is hereby declared a public nuisance
and is hereby prohibited.
(1992 Code, § 1055:00)
   (B)   Violation. No person owning, operating or in charge or control of any
furnace, stove, locomotive, stationary engine or other burning device shall
cause or permit the emission of smoke therefrom, as described in division (A)
above. Any person violating this section shall be deemed and held guilty of
creating a nuisance and committing a petty offense.
(1992 Code, § 1055:10)
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.027 UNWHOLESOME TRADES; SLAUGHTERHOUSES.
   If any person or persons within the corporate limits of the city shall
permit or suffer on his, her or their premises on which he, she or they may be
the occupants, either by exercising any slaughterhouses, or hog, cattle or
sheep pen, market, grocery, cellar, tallow chandler shop, soap factory,
tanning, stable, barn or other unwholesome or offensive trade or calling, or by
permitting any privy building, sewer or other thing whatsoever to remain on the
premises of which he, she or they are the owner, occupant or occupants until by
offensive and ill stenches or otherwise they or any of them shall become
unwholesome, offensive, nauseous, hurtful or dangerous to the neighborhood or
travelers, or shall suffer or permit any filth or cause of sickness to
accumulate upon such premises, it shall be the duty of the Police Department to
give notice to such person or persons to remove such nuisance forthwith.
(1992 Code, § 1060:00) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.028 CATS.
   (A)   Certain cats declared a public nuisance. No person shall own or
possess any cat which destroys, damages or defiles property or which creates an
offense by way of noise, odor or otherwise, or molests other animals or human
beings, or is in heat and unconfined, after receiving notice from the city of
the prior commission of such acts by the cat in question. Such cats are
declared to be a public nuisance.
(1992 Code, § 1070:00)
   (B)   Notice of owner. Upon written complaint of any person stating the acts
committed by any cat, the name and address of the person owning or harboring
the cat, and the name and address of the person making the complaint, the city
shall notify the person owning or harboring the cat of the act complained of to
restrain the cat from committing any more such acts.
(1992 Code, § 1070:05)
   (C)   Abatement of nuisance when owner is unknown. In the case of any cat
constituting a nuisance under this section where no owner or responsible party
is ascertainable, the city may take whatever action is deemed appropriate to
abate the nuisance.
(1992 Code, § 1070:10)
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.029 NOISE IN PUBLIC PARKS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following shall be
deemed as public parks: Brown Park, Hammann Park, Cashman Park, Jaycee Park,
Central Park, Kaplan’s Woods Parkway, Crocus Park, Kelly Park, Dartt’s Park,
Manthey Park, Fairgrounds Ball Diamonds and Park, Maple Creek Greenbelt Park,
Mineral Springs Park, Fremont Park, Morehouse Park, Gainey Park and Willow
Park.
   (B)   General prohibition. No person shall in any public park make or cause
to be made any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or
welfare of any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their
property’s value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific
restriction of the following divisions.
   (C)   Horns, audible signaling devices and the like. No person in any public
park shall sound any audible signaling device on any vehicle, except as a
warning of danger (Minn. Stat. § 169.69, as it may be amended from time to
time).
   (D)   Exhaust. No person in any public park shall discharge the exhaust or
permit the discharge of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal
combustion engine, motor boat, motor vehicle or snowmobile except through a
muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises
therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and regulations.
   (E)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person in any public park shall use
any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
   (F)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems and the like.
      (1)   No person in any public park shall use or operate or permit the use
or operation of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging
system, machine or other device for the production or reproduction of sound in
a distinct and loudly audible manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort
of any person nearby.
      (2)   This provision does not prohibit use of public address systems or
any such device by the Park and Recreation Department or with the advance
written permission of the Park and Recreation Department.
   (G)   Participation in noisy parties or gatherings. No person in any public
park shall participate in any party or other gathering of people giving rise to
noise, disturbing the peace, quiet or repose of another person. When a police
officer determines that a gathering is creating such a noise disturbance, the
officer may order all persons present where the disturbance is occurring, to
disperse immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a
police officer to do so.
(1992 Code, § 1080:00) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.030 USE OF CANNABIS IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   Findings of City Council.
      (1)   In 2023, the Minnesota Legislature passed a package of laws,
Chapter 63—H.F. No. 100 of the Minnesota 2023 Regular Session, that legalizes
adult-use cannabis in Minnesota, (collectively, “2023 Cannabis Laws”);
      (2)   Among those laws, the Legislature enacted Minn. Stat. § 152.0263,
Subd. 5, pursuant to which the city is authorized to adopt an ordinance
establishing a petty misdemeanor offense for a person who unlawfully uses
cannabis flour, cannabis products, lower-potency edibles, or hemp-derived
consumer products in a public place; and
      (3)   According to the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC), second-hand marijuana smoke contains tetrahydrocannabinols (THC), the
compound responsible for most of marijuana’s psychoactive effects or the
“high”. THC can be passed to infants and children through second-hand smoke,
and people exposed to second-hand marijuana smoke can experience psychoactive
effects, such as feeling high. Children exposed to THC are potentially at risk
for negative health effects. Further, research shows that marijuana use during
adolescence can impact the developing teenage brain and cause problems with
attention, motivation, and memory.
   (B)   Unlawful use. It is unlawful to use cannabis flour, cannabis products,
lower-potency hemp edibles and hemp-derived consumer products, as defined in
Minn. Stat. § 342.01, in public places anywhere in the city.
   (C)   Definition of public place. As used in this section, PUBLIC PLACE
includes, but is not limited to, public parks, county fairgrounds, ballparks,
trails, streets, or rights-of-way, alleys, sidewalks, boulevards, school
property, parking lots, beach, pier, golf courses, Owatonna Public Library, the
West Hills, Owatonna Public Utilities facilities, United States Post Office,
and any other developed or undeveloped city-owned property.
   (D)   Definition of non-public places. NON-PUBLIC PLACES include the
following:
      (1)   Private residence, including the curtilage and yard;
      (2)   Private property not generally accessible by the public, unless a
person is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flour, cannabis
products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products on the
property by the owner of the property; and
      (3)   The premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit on-
site consumption of cannabis flour, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles or hemp-derived consumer products.
   (E)   Violation. A violation of this section is a petty misdemeanor as
defined in § 10.99(A). This section may be enforced by the city as an
administrative offense pursuant to § 10.99(B) subject to the civil penalty
provided in the city’s fee schedule. An administrative offense is not a crime.
(Ord. 1652, passed 8-15-2023) Penalty, see § 10.99
BURNING TRASH
§ 93.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN FIRE or OPEN BURNING. Any fire from which the products of combustion
are emitted directly into the open atmosphere without passing through an
adequate stack, duct or chimney.
   PERSONS. Any individual, natural person, firm, association, organization,
partnership, business, trust, corporation, company, trustee, syndicate, club,
institution, agency or any federal, state or local governmental agency or
instrumentality or other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and
duties, and whenever acts prohibited herein are done or acts required herein
are omitted by anyone as employee or agent of another person shall include
employees, supervisory personnel and principals.
   REFUSE AND TRASH. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes
including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, trash, ashes, street
cleanings, leaves, brush, sweepings, junk, abandoned automobiles and solid
market and industrial waste, paper, wrappings, cardboard, tin cans, wood,
glass, bedding, crockery and all other waste materials which, if burned, would
produce or emit air contaminance into the atmosphere.
(1992 Code, § 1010:00)
§ 93.041 OPEN FIRE REFUSE BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause or allow the open burning of any refuse or trash.
(1992 Code, § 1010:05) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.042 TRASH BURNING REGULATED.
   Any of the materials described in §
93.040 of this chapter may be burned in Fire Zone 1 of the city in a multiple
chamber gas fired incinerator of sufficient size and capacity approved by the
State Pollution Control Agency.
(1992 Code, § 1010:10)
§ 93.043 FIREPLACES AND OUTDOOR COOKING FIRES.
   Indoor and outdoor fires may be used for cooking, warmth or recreational
purposes without permit; provided, however, that, such fires shall not be used
for purposes of refuse disposal and shall not violate any other ordinance or
state law.
(1992 Code, § 1010:15) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.044 OFFICIAL FIRES.
   Open fires may be set in performance of an official duty by the Fire Chief
if the fire is necessary for one or more of the reasons or purposes set forth
below:
   (A)   For the prevention of a fire hazard which cannot be abated by other
means;
   (B)   For the instruction of public firefighters or industrial employees
under the supervision of the Fire Chief;
   (C)   For the protection of public health or welfare; and
   (D)   Disposal of dangerous materials if no alternate means of disposal is
reasonably available.
(1992 Code, § 1010:20)
§ 93.045 AUTHORIZATION FOR SETTING APPROVED FIRES.
   (A)   Authorization. Such fires may be set by the Fire Chief or designee,
upon his or her own initiative if required as part of his or her official
duties, or upon application of interested parties in the manner provided in
Minn. Stat. §§ 88.16 and 88.17, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Permit required. A permit to start a fire to burn vegetative materials
and other materials allowed by state statutes or official state rules and
regulations may be given by the Fire Chief or his or her authorized designee
setting forth the time and conditions by which the fire may be started and
burned. The permit shall specifically list the materials that may be burned.
The permittee shall have the permit on his or her person during the fire and
shall produce the permit for inspection when requested to do so by the Fire
Chief, any firefighter, conservation officer or other peace officer. The
permittee shall remain with the fire at all times and before leaving the site
shall completely extinguish the fire. A person shall not start or cause a fire
to be started on any land that is not owned or under the person’s legal control
without the written permission of the owner, lessee or an agent of the owner or
lessee of the land. Violating or exceeding the permit conditions shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be cause for the permit to be revoked.
(1992 Code, § 1010:25) (Ord.1343, passed 5-4-2004)
WEEDS, GRASSES, HARMFUL VEGETATION
§ 93.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Owatonna, Minnesota.
   NATURAL WOODED LOT. An area where the land, trees and vegetation appear not
to have been graded, landscaped, mowed or otherwise disturbed by human or
mechanical means at any time. The Weed Inspector shall use reasonable judgment
in determining what constitutes this type of lot based on the present
appearance of the area and research as to the history of the area if such is
available.
   PERSON. One or more persons of either sex, natural persons, corporations,
partnerships, associations, societies and all other entities of any kind
capable of being sued.
   WEEDS. All noxious weeds, as defined in Minn. Stat. §§ 18.77 and 21.72, as
they may be amended from time to time, and all such useless and troublesome
plants as are commonly known as WEEDS to the general public.
(1992 Code, § 1065:00) (Ord. 1212, passed 8-3-1999; Ord. 1331, passed 11-5-
2003; Ord. 1459, passed 8-2-2010)
§ 93.061 HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No owner, lessee or occupant, nor agent, servant, representative or
employee of any such owner, lessee or occupant having control of any lot or
land or any part thereof within the corporate limits of the city shall permit
or maintain on any such lot or land, or on or along any sidewalk adjacent to
the same, or along any street adjacent to the said property between the
property line and the curb, or on or along any alley adjacent to the said
property between the property line and the middle of the alley, any growth of
grasses, rank vegetation or weeds whether defined as noxious weeds or not to a
height greater than as follows:
      (1)   Upon any occupied lot including any boulevard area as defined in §
97.01 of this chapter, no greater than eight inches; or
      (2)   Upon any other lot or land no greater than 18 inches.
   (B)   The following areas and types of vegetation are exempted from this
provision if managed in a manner so as not to become infested with weeds or to
create a stagnant, foul-smelling condition:
      (1)   Native wetland vegetation found in wetlands, as defined by the
State Wetlands Conservation Act, being Minn. Stat. §§ 103G.221 et seq., or in
floodplains, drainage ponds or ditches which store and convey storm water;
      (2)   Native vegetation found in natural areas which are part of public
open space, parks and nature centers;
      (3)   Areas of any occupied lot or parcel of land having wetland-type
vegetation because of neighborhood drainage patterns, where the drainage
pattern is evident on contour maps and from field observation, and the
vegetation is confined to a single lot, separated from adjacent lots and
managed so as not to be a nuisance;
      (4)   An area where the land and vegetation appear not to have been
graded, landscaped, mowed or otherwise disturbed by human or mechanical means
at any time. The Weed Inspector shall use reasonable judgment in determining
what constitutes this type of area based on the present appearance of the area
and research as to the history of the area, if such information is available;
      (5)   An area of at least five acres used by an educational institution
or public agency for prairie land restoration, if the prior vegetation is
eliminated and the prairie vegetation is planted through transplanting or seed.
The area shall be cut at least once per year to a height of no more than 18
inches if weeds cover more than 25% of the area. If such mowing is necessary
and the area is likely to be seen by the public, a sign shall be posted
advising that a meadow or prairie is being established. The size of the sign
shall be one square foot and it shall be no higher than three feet;
      (6)   Natural wooded lots; and
      (7)   Native plant landscape areas; provided that:
         (a)   They are set back not less than 20 feet from the front lot line.
For the purposes of this subchapter, corner lots shall be deemed to have two
front yards;
         (b)   They are set back not less than five feet from the side and/or
rear lot lines to provide a transition zone. No setback is required on the side
or rear lot lines if:
            1.   There is a fully opaque fence at least five feet in height
installed between the native plants and the side or rear lot lines; or
            2.   The native plants abut a neighboring native plant landscape
area;
         (c)   The native plant landscape area is cut at least once annually
between April 15 and July 15 to a height no greater than ten inches;
         (d)   Turfgrass is eliminated and the native plants, trees and shrubs
are planted through transplanting or seed by human or mechanical means. Soil
erosion should be controlled while the ground is bare of plant growth that is
sufficient to inhibit erosion and is the sole responsibility of the owner or
occupant; and
         (e)   Written authorization from the City Administrator or his or her
designee is obtained for work within conservation or scenic easement areas,
including planting, mowing or cutting.
   (C)   No such person shall cause, permit or allow poison ivy, ragweed or
other poisonous plants or plants detrimental to health, to grow on any such lot
or any such land in such manner that any part of said weeds or plants shall
extend upon, overhang or border any public place or in such manner that said
weeds or plants are allowed to seed or to emit pollen or other poisonous
particles into the atmosphere in a manner such that said particles are carried
through the air into any public places.
(1992 Code, § 1065:05) (Ord. 1212, passed 8-3-1999; Ord. 1331, passed 11-5-
2003; Ord. 1459, passed 8-2-2010) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.062 DUTIES OF OWNERS, LESSEES AND OCCUPANTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any lot or land to
cut and remove, or to cause to be cut and removed, all such weeds, grass or
other rank, poisonous or harmful vegetation as often as may be necessary to
comply with the provisions of §
93.061 of this chapter; provided that, this section shall not apply to lands
under cultivation or to lands where hay is harvested; although neither may the
owners, lessees or occupants of such lands flagrantly violate the provisions of
this subchapter. Upon service of notice of a violation of this subchapter, as
hereinafter provided for, on the owner of land, lessee or occupant or agent,
servant, representative or employee of such owner, lessee or occupant to whom
this subchapter is inapplicable, because the lands are under cultivation or are
lands where hay is harvested, it shall be the responsibility of said owner to
inform the City Weed Inspector before the expiration date of the served notice
that the land is being used for harvest. Thereafter, the owner, lessee or
occupant or any agent, servant, representative or employee of any such owner,
lessee or occupant having control of any such land shall be deemed to be in
compliance with this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 1065:10) (Ord. 1212, passed 8-3-1999; Ord. 1331, passed 11-5-
2003; Ord. 1459, passed 8-2-2010)
§ 93.063 CUTTING BY WEED INSPECTOR.
   (A)   If the provisions of the foregoing sections in this subchapter are not
complied with, the City Weed Inspector shall serve written notice of such fact
upon the owner, lessee, occupant or any agent or person having the care or
control of such lot or land. If the person upon whom the notice is served
fails, neglects or refuses to cut and remove or to cause to be cut and removed,
such weeds, grass or other vegetation within the time specified in the notice,
after receipt of such notice, or if no person can be found in the city who
either is or claims to be the owner of such lot or land, or who either
represents or claims to represent such owner, the Weed Inspector may cause such
weeds, grass or other vegetation on such lot or land to be cut and removed.
   (B)   The actual cost of cutting and removal, together with a $75 fee and
such other additional costs incurred in connection therewith, shall be
certified by the Weed Inspector to the Council prior to October 1 in each year.
The amount so charged against said premises, lots or parcels of land shall be a
lien upon the property on which said weeds, grass and vegetation were located,
and shall be added to, and become, and form part of the taxes next to be
assessed and levied upon such lot or land, and the Council shall, by
appropriate resolution, assess the costs above mentioned against said premises,
and certify the same to the County Auditor. The same shall be collected and
enforced in the same manner as the collection of real estate taxes.
(1992 Code, § 1065:15) (Ord. 1212, passed 8-3-1999; Ord. 1331, passed 11-5-
2003; Ord. 1459, passed 8-2-2010) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.064 HAZARDOUS PLANTINGS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Owatonna, Minnesota.
      DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of Public Works of Owatonna,
Minnesota, or a duly appointed representative.
      PERSON. One or more persons of either sex, natural persons, corporations,
partnerships, associations, societies and all other entities of any kind
capable of being sued.
      PLANTINGS. Any bush, hedge, shrub or tree.
      PROPERTY LINE. The outer edge of a street or highway right-of-way.
(1992 Code, § 1067:00)
   (B)   Limitation on plant growth and location. No owner, lessee or occupant,
nor agent, servant, representative or employee of any such owner, lessee or
occupant having control of any lot or land or any part thereof within the
corporate limits of the city shall permit or maintain on any such lot or land,
or on or along any sidewalk adjacent to the same, or along any street or alley
adjacent to the said property, any growth of plantings which are located on or
extend over any public sidewalk, street or alley as follows.
      (1)   Bushes, hedges and shrubs shall be planted and maintained to obtain
a minimum clearance of 12 inches from any public sidewalk and 36 inches from
any street or alley.
      (2)   Bushes, hedges and shrubs shall be maintained at a maximum height
of 30 inches in the visibility triangle in accordance with Ord. 827.
      (3)   Trees shall be maintained to obtain a minimum clearance branch
height of eight feet above any public sidewalk and 14 feet above any street or
alley.
(1992 Code, § 1067:05)
   (C)   Violation. Upon service of notice of a violation of this section by
the Director of Public Works, as hereinafter provided for, on the owner of the
land, lessee or occupant or agent, servant, representative or employee of such
owner, it shall be the responsibility of said owner to correct the violation
within 30 days. If the violation is not corrected by the end of the 30-day
period, the city shall perform the appropriate corrective action to only that
portion of the planting in violation of this section. Any other pruning,
trimming and the like shall be the responsibility of the owner.
(1992 Code, § 1067:10)
   (D)   Costs/assessment. The actual cost of pruning, trimming or removal,
together with a $75 administrative fee and such other additional costs incurred
in connection therewith, shall be certified by the Director of Public Works to
the Council prior to October 1 in each year. The amount so charged against said
premises, lots or parcels of land shall be a lien upon the property on which
said hazardous plantings were located, and shall be added to, and become, and
form part of the taxes next to be assessed and levied upon such lot or land,
and the Council shall, by appropriate resolution, assess the costs above
mentioned against said premises, and certify the same to the County Auditor.
The same shall be collected and enforced in the same manner as the collection
of real estate taxes.
(1992 Code, § 1067:15)
REPEAT NUISANCE CALL SERVICE FEES
§ 93.075 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public safety, health and
welfare and to prevent and abate repeat service response calls by the city to
the same property or location for nuisance service calls, as defined herein,
which prevent police or public safety services to other residents of the city.
It is the intent of the city by the adoption of this subchapter to impose and
collect service call fees from the owner or occupant, or both, of property to
which city officials must repeatedly respond for any repeat nuisance event or
activity that generates extraordinary costs to the city. The repeat nuisance
service call fee is intended to cover that cost over and above the cost of
providing normal law or code enforcement services and police protection
citywide.
(1992 Code, § 1092:00) (Ord. 1288, passed 8-6-2002)
§ 93.076 SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to all owners and occupants of private
property which is the subject or location of the repeat nuisance service call
by the city.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to any repeat nuisance service calls as
set forth herein made by a city peace officer, part time peace officer,
Community Service Officer, Animal Control Officers and Code Enforcement
Technicians.
(1992 Code, § 1092:00) (Ord. 1288, passed 8-6-2002)
§ 93.077 DEFINITION.
   The term NUISANCE SERVICE CALL shall mean any activity, conduct or condition
occurring upon private property within the city which unreasonably annoys,
injures or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any
member of the public; or will, or will intend to, alarm, anger or disturb
others or provoke breach of the peace, to which the city is required to
respond, including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Any activity, conduct or condition deemed as a public nuisance under
any provision of the city code;
   (B)   Any activity, conduct or condition in violation of any provision of §
93.001 of this chapter;
   (C)   Any conduct, activity or condition constituting a violation of state
laws prohibiting or regulating prostitution, gambling, controlled substances,
use of firearms; and
   (D)   Any conduct, activity or condition constituting disorderly conduct
under Minn. Stat. Ch. 609, as it may be amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 1092:00) (Ord. 1288, passed 8-6-2002)
§ 93.078 FEE AMOUNT.
   (A)   The city may impose a repeat nuisance service call fee of $250 upon
the owner or occupant of private property if the city has rendered services or
responded to the property on three or more occasions within a period of 365
days in response to or for the abatement of nuisance conduct, activity or
condition of the same or similar kind.
   (B)   All repeat nuisance service call fees imposed and charged against the
owner or occupant under this subchapter shall be deemed delinquent 30 days
after the city’s mailing a billing statement therefor.
   (C)   Delinquent payments are subject to a 10% late penalty of the amount
due.
(1992 Code, § 1092:05) (Ord. 1288, passed 8-6-2002)
§ 93.079 NOTICE.
   (A)   No repeat nuisance service call fee may be imposed against an owner or
occupant of property without first providing the owner or occupant with written
notice of the previous nuisance service calls prior to the latest nuisance
service call rendered by the city upon which the fee is imposed.
   (B)   The written notice shall:
      (1)   State the nuisance conduct, activity or condition that is or has
occurred or is maintained or permitted on the property, the dates of the
nuisance conduct, activity or condition;
      (2)   State the owner or occupant may be subject to a repeat nuisance
call service fee if a third nuisance service call is rendered to the property
for the same nuisance, in addition to the city’s right to seek other legal
remedies or actions for abatement of the nuisance or compliance with the law;
and
      (3)   Be served personally or by U.S. mail upon the owner or occupant at
the last known address.
(1992 Code, § 1092:10) (Ord. 1288, passed 8-6-2002)
§ 93.080 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Upon the imposition of a repeat nuisance service call fee, the city
shall provide the owner or occupant notice as required in §
93.079 of this chapter. The city shall also inform the owner or occupant of his
or her right to a hearing on the alleged repeat nuisance service calls. The
owner or occupant upon whom the fee is imposed may request a hearing by serving
upon the City Administrator within five business days of the mailing of the fee
invoice, inclusive of the day the invoice is mailed, a written request for
hearing. The hearing shall be heard by the City Council or its appointed
Hearing Officer within 14 days of the date of the owner’s or occupant’s request
for hearing.
   (B)   The hearing shall be conducted in an informal manner and the State
Rules of Civil Procedure and Rules of Evidence shall not be strictly applied.
The hearing need not be transcribed, but may be transcribed at the sole expense
of the party who requests the transcription. After considering all evidence
submitted, the Hearing Officer shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions of the issue of whether the city responded to or rendered services
for repeat nuisance service calls of the same or similar kind on three or more
occasions within a 365-day period. The findings and conclusions shall be served
upon the owner or occupant by U.S. mail within five days of the notice of
hearing.
   (C)   An owner or occupant’s right to a hearing shall be deemed waived if
the owner or occupant fails to serve a written request for hearing as required
herein or fails to appear at the scheduled hearing date. Upon waiver of the
right to a hearing, or upon the Hearing Officer’s written findings of fact and
conclusions that the repeat nuisance call service fee is warranted hereunder,
the owner or occupant shall immediately pay the fee imposed.
(1992 Code, § 1092:15) (Ord. 1288, passed 8-6-2002)
§ 93.081 LEGAL REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit the city’s other
available legal remedies for any violation of the law which may constitute a
nuisance service call hereunder, including criminal, civil, injunctive or
others.
(1992 Code, § 1092:20) (Ord. 1288, passed 8-6-2002)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Criminal prosecution; penalty. A peace officer may issue a
citation to any person who violates the provision of §§
93.001 through
93.007 of this chapter. The City Building Official is authorized to issue
citations in the same manner as a peace officer for violations of the Uniform
Building Code. Officers of the Fire Department are authorized to issue a
citation to any person who violates the provision of §§
93.001 through
93.007 of this chapter and of the Uniform Fire Code. Criminal prosecution is in
addition to and independent of the civil remedies provided in §§
93.001 through
93.007 of this chapter. Any person convicted of violating any provision of §§
93.001 through
93.007 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed $700 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both,
plus the costs of prosecution in either case.
      (2)   Separate offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense.
(1992 Code, § 1090:35)
   (C)   Any firm, person or corporation violating any provision of §
93.020 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $200 or by
imprisonment for a period of not more than 30 days.
(1992 Code, § 1020:05)
   (D)   (1)   Any person who shall commit, cause or create a nuisance, as
defined in §
93.023, shall be guilty of a penal offense.
(1992 Code, § 1045:05)
      (2)   Any person, other than the person occupying such premises, who
shall remove, injure, damage or deface the placard or sign referred to in §
93.023 of this chapter, shall be guilty of a penal offense.
(1992 Code, § 1045:10)
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions of §
93.024 of this chapter shall be guilty of a penal offense. Every day that such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. Imposition of the
penalty hereby provided shall not be construed as an abatement of any
conditions declared to be a nuisance hereunder, nor shall it prevent the
abatement thereof by such other means as may be available.
(1992 Code, § 1050:15)
   (F)   Any person violating §
93.025 of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(1992 Code, § 1052:15)
   (G)   Every violation of §
93.026 of this chapter shall be a petty offense. Every separate day during
which or any part of which such nuisance is continued shall be a separate
offense.
(1992 Code, § 1055:15)
   (H)   (1)   If the owner or owners, occupants or occupant of the premises on
which such nuisance, as prescribed in §
93.027 of this chapter shall be situated shall neglect or refuse to remove the
same for the space of 24 hours after such notice shall have been given, he, she
or they, on conviction thereof, shall be liable to pay a fine not exceeding
$100 for each day he, she or they shall have permitted such nuisance to remain
after notice thereof.
(1992 Code, § 1060:00)
      (2)   If any person or persons shall, after notice as provided in §
93.027 of this chapter, permit any such nuisance to remain which shall be
dangerous or offensive or hurtful, it shall be lawful for the Police Department
to remove and abate such nuisance and the person or persons permitting such
nuisance to remain as last aforesaid shall, on conviction thereof, be liable to
pay a fine not exceeding $300 and the expense of removing such nuisance;
provided that, the Council may, at the time of the abatement of any such
nuisance or at any time thereafter, direct an assessment to be made on the lot
or lots or land from which such nuisance shall have been removed sufficient in
amount to pay all the expenses of removing the same and, when such assessment
shall have been levied and collected, it shall be a bar to the recovery of the
same by any proceeding before any court having jurisdiction, but shall not
prevent the recovery of any fine under §
93.027 of this chapter to which any person or persons may have become liable
for creating such nuisance or suffering the same to remain after notice as
aforesaid.
(1992 Code, § 1060:05)
   (I)   (1)   Enforcement duties. The City Police Department shall enforce the
provisions of §
93.029 of this chapter.
      (2)   Criminal penalties. Every person who violates any provision of §
93.029 of this chapter is guilty of a penal offense.
(1992 Code, § 1080:05)
   (J)   Any person who shall neglect to cut and remove weeds, grass or other
vegetation as directed in §§
93.060 through
93.063 of this chapter, or who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the
provisions of any notice herein provided, or who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
93.060 through
93.063 of this chapter, or who shall resist or obstruct the Weed Inspector, or
his or her employees, in the cutting and removal of weeds, grass and other
vegetation shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a petty offense as provided in
§
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and each day on which such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(1992 Code, § 1065:20)
(Ord. 1137, passed 5-21-1996; Ord. 1183, passed 5-5-1998; Ord. 1212, passed 8-
3-1999; Ord. 1331, passed 11-5-2003; Ord. 1282, passed 6-17-2002; Ord. 1459,
passed 8-2-2010)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Drainage of water onto streets; snow or ice
   
94.002   Improvements and assessments
   
94.003   Protecting streets; heavy engines and machines
   
94.004   Sidewalk construction
   
94.005   Snow, ice, dirt and the like removed from sidewalks
   
94.006   Poles and wires; permission
Vacation Procedure
   
94.020   Petition; requirements
   
94.021   Order for hearing
   
94.022   Notice of hearing
   
94.023   Testimony at hearing
   
94.024   Effect on existing systems or ownerships
   
94.025   Council ordinance; filing and recording
Excavations and Backfill
   
94.040   Openings in streets
   
94.041   Permit fees and application
   
94.042   Backfill
   
94.043   Winter excavations
   
94.044   Safety precautions
   
94.045   Blocking street
Curbing, Cutting and Driveway Permits
   
94.060   Curb construction requirements; inspection; permit
   
94.061   Cutting curbs; application
   
94.062   Driveways; order for construction; replacement
Paving Underground Facilities
   
94.075   Definitions
   
94.076   Service and main lines required before surfacing
   
94.077   Services to be stubbed in
   
94.078   Connection required; when
   
94.079   Maintenance and repair
   
94.080   Assessing costs; when
   
94.081   Backfilling required
Sidewalks; Use Regulations
   
94.095   Use of sidewalks; displaying merchandise; other permitted uses
   
94.096   Permit application
   
94.097   Fee
   
94.098   Authority
Newsstands on Public Sidewalks
   
94.110   Policy declaration
   
94.111   Prohibition
   
94.112   Placement
   
94.113   Maximum size
   
94.114   Use and appearance
Right-of-Way Management
   
94.125   Findings, purpose and intent
   
94.126   Election to manage the public rights-of-way
   
94.127   Definitions
   
94.128   Administration
   
94.129   Utility Coordination Committee
   
94.130   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
94.131   Registration information
   
94.132   Reporting obligations
   
94.133   Permit required
   
94.134   Permit applications
   
94.135   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
94.136   Permit fees
   
94.137   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
94.138   Joint applications
   
94.139   Supplementary applications
   
94.140   Other obligations
   
94.141   Denial of permit
   
94.142   Installation requirements
   
94.143   Inspection
   
94.144   Work done without a permit
   
94.145   Supplementary notification
   
94.146   Revocation of permits
   
94.147   Mapping data
   
94.148   Location and relocation of facilities
   
94.149   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
94.150   Damage to other facilities
   
94.151   Right-of-way vacation
   
94.152   Indemnification and liability
   
94.153   Abandoned and unusable facilities
   
94.154   Appeal
 
   
94.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001 DRAINAGE OF WATER ONTO STREETS; SNOW OR ICE.
   (A)   Drainage onto street prohibited. It is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance for any person, firm or corporation to cause, suffer or permit any
artificial accumulation of rain, water or other form of surface waters to be
drained or cast upon any street, sidewalk or alley in the city, which does
thereby interfere with, obstruct or render dangerous for passage such street,
sidewalk or alley, or which does thereby annoy, injure or endanger the safety,
health, comfort or repose of any considerable number of people.
(1992 Code, § 610:00)
   (B)   Deposit of snow or ice onto streets and alleyways prohibited. Except
for the actions of the City Engineer, his or her agents and employees and the
city’s public utilities in carrying out duties imposed by law or contract, it
shall constitute a penal offense for any person to deposit snow or ice on any
public street or alley.
(1992 Code, § 610:05)
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.002 IMPROVEMENTS AND ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Date of petition for street improvements. Except as provided in
division (B) below, no petitions for construction of curb and gutter, concrete
surfacing, bituminous surfacing, base course, grading or graveling of streets,
or for construction of sanitary sewer in streets, or any one or combination of
the foregoing types of improvements, will be accepted or acted upon by the
Council, unless filed with the Clerk-Treasurer on or before August 1 of the
year prior to the year of requested construction.
(1992 Code, § 615:00)
   (B)   New streets. Petitions for any improvement provided in division (A)
above of new streets not dedicated on October 1 of the year prior to the time
of requested construction may be received and acted upon if filed before
January 1 of the year of requested construction, upon payment by the petitioner
of cash in an amount sufficient to pay all costs of engineering and survey for
such proposed improvements.
(1992 Code, § 615:05)
§ 94.003 PROTECTING STREETS; HEAVY ENGINES AND MACHINES.
   (A)   Heavy equipment; permits. No person shall drive, haul or propel nor
cause to be driven, hauled or propelled, any machine engine or conveyance of
any kind, except automobiles having rubber tires, over, on or across any paved
street, alley or public place in the city, if any wheel of such machine, engine
or conveyance shall have lugs on the outside or circumference of the same which
come in contact, or if any such wheel is provided with anything, except a
smooth and uniform surface to come in contact and which does come in contact,
with the paving of any such street, alley or public place; provided, however,
that, in case it is necessary for any such machine, engine or conveyance to
cross any paved street or alley in the city, permission to cross the same may
be had and obtained by the person owning or operating such machine, engine or
conveyance obtaining the consent of the City Engineer to so cross such street
or alley under the supervision of the City Engineer and upon providing and
laying down planks under the wheels of such machine, engine or conveyance as
shall be directed by the City Engineer.
(1992 Code, § 630:00)
   (B)   Damage to streets. No person shall drive, propel or haul, nor cause to
be driven, propelled or hauled, any machine, engine or conveyance over, on or
across any paved street, alley or public place in the city which shall cause
injury or damage to the paving on such street, alley or public place.
(1992 Code, § 630:05)
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.004 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Sidewalk requirements. Permanent sidewalks of concrete shall be
constructed wherever old walks are condemned, replaced or where new walks are
ordered by the Council upon all streets.
(1992 Code, § 640:00)
   (B)   Specifications and inspection. All permanent sidewalks shall be built
subject to the inspection of the Engineer and it shall be the duty of the
Engineer to see that the specifications relating to permanent sidewalks shall
be strictly complied with.
(1992 Code, § 640:05)
   (C)   Permit, application for. No person shall lay any sidewalk on the
public streets, or on any public property owned by the city, without a permit
therefor granted by the Engineer. Application for each such permit shall be
accompanied by the fee in the amount duly established by the Council from time
to time, and a certificate of public liability insurance, in the amount of at
least $100,000 combined single limit, naming the city as an additional insured.
(1992 Code, § 640:10)
   (D)   City construction. Work on all condemned walks must be commenced
within 15 days after being ordered by the Council. For property owners failing
to do this, the total cost of such sidewalk, when constructed or replaced under
contract by the city, may be assessed against the abutting property as a
special assessment, which assessment shall be made in accordance with the laws
of the state or the Charter of the city for levying special assessments for
street improvement.
(1992 Code, § 640:15) (Ord. 1440, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 94.005 SNOW, ICE, DIRT AND THE LIKE REMOVED FROM SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice or rubbish
removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street, grass plots adjacent to
sidewalks or from private property; repair of sidewalks.
(1992 Code, § 650:00)
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish removal.
      (1)   All snow, ice, dirt and rubbish remaining on a public sidewalk more
than 24 hours after its deposit thereon is a public nuisance. The owner and the
occupant of any property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use due diligence
to keep such walk safe for pedestrians. No such owner or occupant shall allow
snow, ice, dirt or rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its
deposit thereon.
      (2)   Any person violating this section may be issued an administrative
citation as provided in Chapter 10, §
10.99(B), and shall be subject to a civil penalty identified in the city's fee
schedule as updated from time to time by City Council ordinance.
      (3)   The administrative civil penalty provided in this section is in
addition to the cost recovery provision in §
94.005(D).
      (4)   The City Engineer may cause to be removed from all public sidewalks
all snow, ice, dirt and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after
any such matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to
fall. A record showing the cost of such removal adjacent to each separate lot
and parcel shall be kept and delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1992 Code, § 650:05)
   (C)   Repair of sidewalks.
      (1)   The owner of any property within the corporate limits of the city
abutting a public sidewalk shall keep the sidewalk in repair and safe for
pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with standard specifications
approved by the Council and on file in the office of the City Engineer.
      (2)   The City Engineer shall direct such inspections as are necessary to
determine that public sidewalks are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians. If
he or she finds that any sidewalk abutting on private property is unsafe and in
need of repairs, he or she shall cause a notice to be served, by registered
mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of the property and the
occupant, if the owner does not reside within the corporate limits of the city
or cannot be found therein, ordering such owner to have the sidewalk repaired
and made safe within 30 days and stating that if the owner fails to do so, the
city may do so, that the expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and that if
unpaid it will be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
      (3)   If the sidewalk is not repaired within 30 days after receipt of the
notice, the City Engineer shall order his or her agents or employees to repair
the sidewalk and make it safe for pedestrians or order the work done by
contract.
(1992 Code, § 650:15)
   (D)   Assessment. The Council may then spread the charges against property
benefited as a special assessment under Minn. Stat. § 429.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, and other pertinent statutes.
(1992 Code, § 650:20)
(Ord. 1237, passed 8-1-2000; Ord. 1599, passed 12-17-2019) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.006 POLES AND WIRES; PERMISSION.
   (A)   Authorization for poles in public ways. No person shall, except when
acting under the sanction of some ordinance duly passed by the Council, erect
or set any telephone, telegraph, electric light or electric power pole or pole
of any sort for the support of wires in any public street, road or alley or on
any public ground within the corporate limits of the city.
(1992 Code, § 665:00)
   (B)   Applicability. Nothing in this section shall be construed, however, to
in any way affect the rights of any person, persons, company or corporation who
have heretofore erected and set any pole or poles in the city with the consent
of the city.
(1992 Code, § 665:05)
Penalty, see §
94.999
VACATION PROCEDURE
§ 94.020 PETITION; REQUIREMENTS.
   No street, alley or public right-of-way, or any part thereof, within the
city, shall be vacated, except upon the Council’s own motion or upon the
petition directed to the Council of a majority in number of the owners of
property abutting such street, alley or public right-of-way and upon completion
of the procedure specified hereinafter. Such petition shall set forth the
grounds for the desired vacation and shall be accompanied by a plat of the
street, alley or public right-of-way proposed to be vacated and such petition
shall be verified on behalf of a majority of said petitioners. A fee, as
established by the City Council from time to time, in
Ch. 35 of this code or ordinances to pay the costs incurred by the city in the
process, shall also accompany the petition. Assessments which would have been
levied on the property may be charged at the time of vacation.
(1992 Code, § 675:00) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.021 ORDER FOR HEARING.
   Upon the Council’s own motion or upon the filing of the petition as
aforesaid, the Council shall direct that such petition be filed with the City
Clerk-Treasurer and shall order a hearing on such petition and fix the time and
place of such hearing.
(1992 Code, § 675:05)
§ 94.022 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   Notice of public hearing shall be given not more than 30 days and not
less than ten days before the hearing by publication at least once in the
official newspaper of the city. Such notice shall include the time and place of
the hearing, a description of the contents of the request to be heard and
description of the right-of-way proposed to be vacated.
   (B)   In addition to published notice, the Clerk-Treasurer shall mail a
notice, at least ten days before the date of the hearing, to all owners of
property abutting the right-of-way proposed to be vacated. Names and addresses
from current city records shall be deemed sufficient for such notification.
(1992 Code, § 675:10)
§ 94.023 TESTIMONY AT HEARING.
   Any person may appear and testify at such public hearing either in person or
by a duly authorized agent or attorney.
(1992 Code, § 675:15)
§ 94.024 EFFECT UPON EXISTING SYSTEMS OR OWNERSHIPS.
   The vacation of any street, alley or public right-of-way, or any part
thereof, under this section, shall not destroy or interfere with the right of
any person, corporation or municipality owning or having control of any
electric light or telephone or lines, sewer or water pipes, mains, hydrants,
lift stations or other integral parts of a system existing within, on or under
the described right-of-way, nor the right of any such person, corporation or
municipality to enter such right-of-way or portion thereof vacated, for the
purposes of repairing the same or otherwise properly attending thereto.
(1992 Code, § 675:20)
§ 94.025 COUNCIL ORDINANCE; FILING AND RECORDING.
   (A)   The Council, after hearing the petition, or upon the report of such
board or commission designated to hold hearing on such petition, may, by
ordinance passed by the affirmative vote of not less than five members, declare
such street, alley or public right-of-way, or any portion thereof vacated or
deny such petition.
(1992 Code, § 675:25)
   (B)   If a vacation is declared, the ordinance shall be filed for record and
duly recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
(1992 Code, § 675:30)
EXCAVATIONS AND BACKFILL
§ 94.040 OPENING IN STREETS.
   No opening shall be made in any street in the city without first having
obtained a permit therefor from the Engineer on forms supplied by the Engineer.
Permits to make openings in any street shall be issued only to licensed
plumbers, public utilities companies or recognized public service agencies. All
streets, sidewalks and alleys shall be repaired in accordance with city
specifications.
(1992 Code, § 600:00) (Ord. 1440, passed 4-21-2009) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.041 PERMIT FEES AND APPLICATION.
   The application for permission to open any street, lane or alley shall be
accompanied by the fees in the amount duly established by the Council from time
to time. Applicants for permits to open any street, lane or alley in said city
shall also provide with the application a certificate of public liability
insurance in an amount of at least $1,000,000 combined single limit, including
completed operations and underground coverage naming the city as additional
insured.
(1992 Code, § 600:05) (Ord. 1433, passed 8-19-2008)
§ 94.042 BACKFILL.
   (A)   Backfilling of all street openings shall be thoroughly compacted.
Compaction of materials placed within the pipe bedding and encasement zones
shall be accomplished with portable or hand equipment methods, so as to achieve
thorough consolidation under and around the pipe and avoid damage to the pipe.
Above the cover zone material, the use of heavy roller type compaction
equipment shall be limited to safe pipe loading.
   (B)   The maximum loose thickness of each backfill layer shall be eight
inches; except that, 12 inches will be permitted for granular materials placed
above an elevation one foot above the top of pipe, and with the provision that,
by authority of the Engineer in consideration of the demonstrated capability of
special type vibratory compactors, these maximums may be increased at his or
her discretion.
   (C)   All excess material resulting from the excavation, if any, shall be
removed by the party obtaining the opening permit. The Engineer shall be
notified immediately in writing upon completion of the backfilling and the city
shall replace the street surfacing. The applicant for the street opening permit
shall be responsible to the city for any subsequent settling of streets for
openings which have not been adequately backfilled and compacted, and any and
all expenses incurred by the city as a result thereof to remedy such settling
shall be charged against such applicant in the following manner: The Engineer
shall maintain an accurate cost analysis of the cost to the city for
backfilling ditches settlings, which analysis shall show the location of each
ditch and the applicant of the opening permit therefor.
(1992 Code, § 600:10) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.043 WINTER EXCAVATIONS.
   During the winter months, permits for excavation in any street, lane or
alley will be granted on an emergency basis only, subject to the following
conditions: all material resulting from the excavation shall be removed and
backfilling shall be done with gravel or other material approved by the
Engineer, which is entirely free of frozen material. No permits for new service
will be granted after November 15 nor before March 1.
(1992 Code, § 600:15)
§ 94.044 SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to excavate, dig or do any work
whatsoever in any street, alley or other public way in the corporate limits of
the city, which might or could interfere with the lawful use of such street,
alley or public way, without providing the following minimum safety
precautions:
   (A)   Place acceptable reflectorized barricades at least 27 inches high and
not less than eight feet long at each end of such street, alley or public way,
together with “Road Closed” signs at each such barricade; and
   (B)   Protect each ditch and excavation on each side in such street, alley
or public way, with a similar type of barricade and by providing acceptable
lanterns or flashing lights during all periods of darkness.
(1992 Code, § 600:20) (Ord. 1433, passed 8-19-2008) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.045 BLOCKING STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to block or cause to be blocked one-half
or more of the usable width of any street, alley or public way in said city by
reason of any digging, excavation or work in such street, alley or public way,
without a validated permit. A validated permit shall require an accurate
statement by the applicant thereof, of the time, date and hours such street,
alley or public way will be blocked and shall be countersigned by the Fire
Chief or his or her authorized representative. The applicant shall also notify
the City Police Department and the local ambulance service of the time and
location of closure. The holder of each validated permit shall notify the Fire
Chief, Police Department and ambulance service, or their representatives,
immediately upon such street being opened for travel in each case.
(1992 Code, § 600:25) (Ord. 1433, passed 8-19-2008) Penalty, see §
94.999
CURBING, CUTTING AND DRIVEWAY PERMITS
§ 94.060 CURB CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS; INSPECTION; PERMIT.
   (A)   Curb construction requirements. Permanent curbing of cement, concrete
or sawed stone shall be constructed and installed wherever old curbing is
condemned or replaced and where new curbing is ordered by the Council upon all
streets in the city.
(1992 Code, § 605:00)
   (B)   Specifications and inspection. All such curbing shall be constructed
and installed under the direction and subject to the inspection and approval,
and according to the specifications furnished by the Engineer, or on file in
the office of the Engineer.
(1992 Code, § 605:05)
   (C)   Permit, application for. No person shall install or replace any such
curbing on the public streets or on any public property owned by the city,
without a permit therefor granted by the Engineer. Application for each such
permit shall be accompanied by the fee in the amount duly established by the
Council from time to time, and a certificate of public liability insurance, in
the amount of at least $1,000,000 combined single limit, naming the city as an
additional insured.
(1992 Code, § 605:10)
   (D)   Manner of proceeding. Work on the construction and installation of any
such curbing shall be commenced within 15 days after being ordered by the
Council, and from thence diligently prosecuted to completion; and on failure of
the property owner so to do, same may be constructed and installed, or replaced
by or under contract with said city, and the total cost and expense thereof
shall be assessed against the abutting real estate property as a special
assessment in the manner provided in the Charter of said city and the laws of
the state for levying special assessments for street improvement.
(1992 Code, § 605:15) (Ord. 1525, passed 5-5-2015) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.061 CUTTING CURBS; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Cutting curb, permit. No person shall cut a curb along any side of any
property in the city without first paying the required fee as duly set by the
Council from time to time and obtaining a permit therefor as hereinafter
provided.
(1992 Code, § 605:20)
   (B)   Application in residential, commercial and industrial areas. Any
person so desiring to construct a curb cut shall make application therefor to
the Engineer on forms provided therefor by said city. Upon the filing of such
an application with the Engineer, he or she may grant permission to have such
curb cut.
(1992 Code, § 605:25)
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.062 DRIVEWAYS; ORDER FOR CONSTRUCTION; REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   Driveway. Whenever such permission is granted, either by the Engineer
or the Council, for the cutting of curbs, as herein provided, a concrete
driveway, conforming to the specifications of the city, shall be constructed
between the street curb and the lot line. The expense of such curb cutting and
driveway construction shall be paid for by the person applying therefor.
(1992 Code, § 605:35)
   (B)   Order for driveway construction. It is hereby further ordained by the
Council that the Council may, by resolution, order the construction of, and
construct, a concrete driveway between the street curb and the lot line, on any
street where the driveway and curb have been opened or left open, or hereafter
may be opened or left open, for the benefit of the property owner, the cost of
which said construction shall be paid by the owner of property abutting such
improvement, and such cost may be assessed against said abutting property only
after a public hearing as provided for herein.
(1992 Code, § 605:40)
   (C)   Replacement of curb by the city.
      (1)   Whenever any such driveway in the city which has been left open, or
has not been used as a driveway for a period of one year, or more, the Council
may, by resolution, order the removal of such driveway and may construct a curb
across such driveway, but only after a hearing before the Council on ten days
published notice of such hearing, a copy of which said notice shall be mailed
to the owner or occupant of the property affected by such driveway, at which
hearing the said owner or occupant or any person interested therein, may be
heard as to any objections said owner or occupant or any person interested
therein, may have thereto.
      (2)   The cost of any such work contemplated under this section shall be
borne by the city.
(1992 Code, § 605:45)
Penalty, see §
94.999
PAVING UNDERGROUND FACILITIES
§ 94.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SERVICE LINES. All branch water, sewer or gas pipes in the streets
connecting mains with adjacent property.
   STREET. All streets, avenues and places, or any part thereof, heretofore
dedicated, and those streets, avenues and places or parts thereof, which are
projected on the overall development map of the city whether or not now
dedicated to the public.
   SURFACING or SURFACED. Concrete pavement or plant-mixed bituminous surfacing
or other similar type of hard surfacing and shall include the term RESURFACING.
(1992 Code, § 625:00)
§ 94.076 SERVICE AND MAIN LINES REQUIRED BEFORE SURFACING.
   Before any street in the city shall be surfaced, all gas, water and sewer
pipes and mains, where they can be reasonably constructed, shall be laid
therein and connections made with such gas, water and sewer pipes and mains to
the front line of each lot abutting on any such street ordered to be surfaced.
Where any such abutting property is unplatted, the services shall be stubbed in
at reasonable intervals as may be determined from time to time by the Council
so as to correspond to future platting and development.
(1992 Code, § 625:05) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.077 SERVICES TO BE STUBBED IN.
   Whenever any street or avenue in the city shall be ordered surfaced by the
Council, the owners of the property abutting on such street shall put in all
necessary connections with the sewer, gas and water mains on such street or
avenue to a point specified by the City Engineer between the curb line and lot
line of the respective lot and premises abutting on the same.
(1992 Code, § 625:10)
§ 94.078 CONNECTION REQUIRED; WHEN.
   If the public sewer and water supply systems are accessible in a street,
alley or easement to a building or premises and the connections are feasible,
liquid waste from any plumbing system in that building must be discharged into
the public sewer and the water distribution system must be connected to the
public water supply system unless otherwise permitted by the administrative
authority.
(1992 Code, § 625:12) (Ord. 1467, passed 3-1-2011)
§ 94.079 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   The water service is the property of the owner of the lot or premises
abutting the street. The owner is responsible for the installation, maintenance
and repair of the water and sump service and the costs therefor.
   (B)   The sewer service and sump service are the property of the owner of
the lot or premises on private property. Normal maintenance such as cleaning,
removal of clogs and root removal will be the responsibility of the property
owner for the entire service line. The city is responsible for the service line
repair within the public right-of-way. Final determination of repair
responsibility will be at the discretion of the Director of Public Works or
their designee.
(1992 Code, § 625:18) (Ord. 1467, passed 3-1-2011; Ord. 1524, passed 3-3-2015;
Ord. 1532, passed 12-1-2015; Ord. 1665, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 94.080 ASSESSING COSTS; WHEN.
   In the event any of the owners of lots and premises abutting on any street
ordered to be surfaced shall fail to put such branch gas, water and sewers, and
make connections with the front line of their premises as herein provided and
required within 30 days after notice from the City Engineer so to do, or such
additional period of time as may be required by the Council, the Council shall
proceed and cause all such branch gas, water and sewer pipes to be put in and
connections made and assess the cost thereof against the respective lots and
premises properly chargeable with the same as a part of the total improvement.
(1992 Code, § 625:15)
§ 94.081 BACKFILLING REQUIRED.
   All such branch gas, water and sewer lines shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications and requirements of the city and the
excavations shall be backfilled so as to prevent settlement to the satisfaction
of the City Engineer.
(1992 Code, § 625:20) Penalty, see §
94.999
SIDEWALKS; USE REGULATIONS
§ 94.095 USE OF SIDEWALKS; DISPLAYING MERCHANDISE; OTHER PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Garbage storage. It shall be unlawful for any owner, tenant or
other occupant of premises in the Central Business District to keep or store
any garbage bin, garbage can, or other garbage container of any kind or
description upon any public sidewalk, alley or street in the Central Business
District except on designated garbage pickup days.
      (2)   Use of sidewalks. Unless acting under a written permit of the city
as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to store, pile,
deposit, erect, keep or place, or cause, permit or suffer to be stored, piled,
deposited, erected, kept or placed upon any sidewalk, street, avenue, alley or
other public thoroughfare in the city, any wood, coal, boxes, barrels, stone,
brick, lumber, dirt, merchandise, shipping case, stand, stall, booth or show
case or other obstruction of any kind, except as herein or otherwise provided
by law or ordinance; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be
construed to prohibit the placement and use of a public telephone booth or
booths upon sidewalks of the city at such location or locations and upon such
terms and conditions as the Council may determine to be in the interests of the
public.
(1992 Code, § 620:00)
   (B)   Permitted uses of sidewalks.
      (1)   Use of sidewalks for display of merchandise. When authorized by
written permit with the city, it shall be lawful for the persons authorized
thereby during the time his or her store or building is open for business, to
place or set out for exhibition any goods, wares or merchandise directly
connected with the business transacted by him or her, on the sidewalk in front
of a place of business, store or building owned, controlled or occupied by him
or her.
(1992 Code, § 620:05)
      (2)   Other sidewalk amenities allowed. It shall be lawful for owners or
tenants of premises abutting a public sidewalk in the Central Business District
(B-3) to place tables and chairs, and portable planters, and one temporary
portable sign upon the abutting public sidewalk during the time the permit
holder’s store or building is open for business, provided that the minimum
sidewalk width remaining for pedestrians shall be as required by the American
Disabilities Act, and provided further, that such placement does not
unreasonably interfere with sidewalk maintenance and snow removal.
   (C)   Receiving or delivering goods. It shall be lawful for any person to
place or keep any goods, wares, merchandise, baggage or any articles of
personal property which he or she may be receiving or delivering, and to unpack
and remove the contents of any box, barrel or other receptacle, only on that
part of any sidewalk next to the curb line not exceeding four feet in width and
in front only of the store or building he or she owns, controls or occupies,
but such goods, wares or merchandise shall not remain on such part of the
sidewalk for a longer period than two hours or at night, on Sunday or any legal
holiday.
(1992 Code, § 620:20)
   (D)   Suspending merchandise in streets. It shall be unlawful for any person
to hang out or suspend over any street any goods, wares or merchandise in front
of his or her store, house or other building, except as authorized by a written
permit.
(1992 Code, § 620:25)
(Ord. 1575, passed 3-6-2018) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.096 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   No permit shall be issued hereunder, unless approved by the Council, nor
shall any permit be granted unless application therefor is made in writing,
subject to the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   Setting forth the sidewalks and portions thereof proposed to be used
and the location thereof, not to exceed four feet measured from the building;
   (B)   The period of time for which permit is requested, not to exceed eight
weeks which may be used in two-week increments upon at least one-week notice to
the City Clerk-Treasurer and Chief of Police for each increment;
   (C)   The purpose thereof;
   (D)   Agreeing that the applicant will provide the city, at no expense to
the city, with a certificate of liability insurance in the amount of at least
$300,000 combined single limit, protecting the city from liability for damages
to property or injuries to persons that may arise out of the use of the
sidewalk for which the permit is desired;
   (E)   Such other special conditions as may be applicable; and
   (F)   All foodstuffs when displayed as above shall be at least two feet
above the level of the sidewalk and properly protected from flies, dust and
dirt.
(1992 Code, § 620:10)
§ 94.097 FEE.
   Such application shall be accompanied by the required license fee as duly
set by the Council from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 620:15)
§ 94.098 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the
moving of goods, wares and merchandise across any sidewalk in the way of trade
or for the use of families.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as giving authority to any
owner or occupant of any premises to let, sub-let, rent, lease or grant any of
the sidewalk space for business stands of any kind or for any purpose
whatsoever; and any person so found doing business may be summarily removed by
the police and be deemed a violator of this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 620:30)
NEWSSTANDS ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS
§ 94.110 POLICY DECLARATION.
   (A)   The City Council recognizes that under the provisions of the First
Amendment to the United States Constitution, and Art. I, § 3, of the
Constitution of the state, a person has a right to distribute or vend newspaper
and periodicals on the public sidewalks within the city. Further that, the city
may restrict the time, place and manner of the exercise by a person of the
right to do so, only for a reason which is directly related to the preservation
of public health, safety and welfare. If such a restriction is imposed, it
should be no more stringent than required to accomplish the purpose of
protection of the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   The City Council finds that the unrestricted placement of unattended
devices on the public sidewalks in the city to distribute or vend newspapers
and periodicals has the potential to threaten the health, safety and welfare of
the public; and, to interfere with the city’s responsibility to provide a safe
place for pedestrians, protect public facilities already in place therein, and
to provide the city and adjacent property owners the opportunity to properly
maintain the sidewalks in good condition. Therefore, the regulations set forth
in this subchapter are established to set standards governing the placement of
unattended devices designed to vend or distribute newspapers and periodicals on
the public rights-of-way of the city.
(1992 Code, § 623:00)
§ 94.111 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall vend or distribute newspapers or periodicals from an
unattended dispensing device on the public sidewalk if the device is placed on
the sidewalk in violation of any of the regulations set forth in this
subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 623:05) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.112 PLACEMENT.
   (A)   No unattended newspaper or periodical dispensing device shall be
placed:
      (1)   Within six feet of any fire hydrant, or fire alarm box, ornamental
street light pole, utility pole, traffic signal or any traffic-control device
post, building entrance/exit doors so as to interfere with access to business;
      (2)   Attached in any manner to any fire alarm box shaft, ornamental
street light pole, utility pole, traffic signal or any traffic-control device
post;
      (3)   Where it projects beyond any curb line onto the roadway;
      (4)   Within three feet of any crosswalk;
      (5)   Within three feet of any curb return at any intersection;
      (6)   Within three feet of the curb return of any driveway;
      (7)   Within three feet of the approach to any sign marking a designated
bus stop, or any designated loading space or three feet forward of such sign;
      (8)   Where it restricts access to a designated vehicle loading or
unloading area;
      (9)   In any disabled access ramp;
      (10)   In such a manner as to reduce the clear space for the passageway
of pedestrians using the sidewalk to less than eight feet in the Central
Business District, or four feet in areas where the sidewalk is six feet or less
in width;
      (11)   On any boulevard or other place planted with lawn, flowers, shrubs
or trees;
      (12)   So that it is bolted or permanently attached to the sidewalk
surface; and/or
      (13)   So that it is weighted down or anchored by any device or material
which is not an integral and attached component of the dispensing device, or
which is readily separable from the device by an unauthorized person or by
weather conditions.
   (B)   A dispensing device shall only be placed adjacent to the wall of a
building, shall be placed parallel to said wall and shall not project more than
30 inches into the right-of-way. Where there is no building adjacent the right-
of-way, placement shall be made as far as possible, within the right-of-way,
from the centerline of the right-of-way.
(1992 Code, § 623:10) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.113 MAXIMUM SIZE.
   An unattended automatic dispensing device for newspapers or periodicals
shall not exceed five feet in height, 30 inches in width or two feet in depth.
(1992 Code, § 623:15) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.114 USE AND APPEARANCE.
   An unattended dispensing device for newspapers and periodicals shall be used
solely for the distribution of newspapers, magazines and other printed
materials and shall be maintained by the applicant in a state of good repair
and neat appearance. In addition, the name, address and phone number of the
owner of said device or a person responsible for maintenance shall be legibly
displayed thereon.
(1992 Code, § 623:20) Penalty, see §
94.999
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
§ 94.125 FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (B)   Accordingly, the city hereby enacts this new chapter of this code
relating to right-of-way permits and administration. This chapter imposes
reasonable regulation on the placement and maintenance of facilities and
equipment currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some
future time. It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of state and
federal agencies. Under this chapter, persons excavating and obstructing the
rights-of-way will bear financial responsibility for their work. Finally, this
chapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and projected costs from persons
using the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session Laws,
Chapter 123, substantially codified in Minn. Stats. §§ 237.16, 237.162,
237.163, 237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the “Act”) and the other laws governing
applicable rights of the city and users of the right-of-way. This chapter shall
also be interpreted consistent with Minn. Rules 7819.0050 -7819.9950 and Minn.
Rules Chapter 7560 where possible. To the extent any provision of this chapter
cannot be interpreted consistently with the Minnesota Rules, that
interpretation most consistent with the Act and other applicable statutory and
case law is intended. This chap-ter shall not be interpreted to limit the
regulatory and police powers of the city to adopt and en-force general
ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.126 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and Federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects, pursuant
Minn. Stat. 237.163, Subd. 2(b), to manage rights-of-way within its
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.127 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply in this chapter of this code. References
hereafter to “sections” are, unless otherwise specified, references to sections
in this chapter. Defined terms remain de-fined terms, whether or not
capitalized.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way.
   CITY. The City of Owatonna, Minnesota. For purposes of §
94.152, city also means the city's elected officials, officers, employees and
agents.
   COMMISSION. The State Public Utilities Commission.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with Minn. Stats., § 216D.04 Subd. 3, over a continuous length
in excess of 500 feet.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at permit-tee's option:
      (1)   Individual project bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under Minn. Stat. § 15.73,
Subd. 3;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (5)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city; and
      (6)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules 7819.1100 means the cost to achieve
a level of restoration, as determined by the city at the time the permit is
issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates one to 13, set
forth in Minn. Rules parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established
by permit.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works of the city.
   DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR. Any person authorized by the city to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this chapter.
   DIRECTOR. The director of the department of public works of the city, or her
or his designee.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses a danger to life or health, or of a significant loss of
property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement of facilities in order to
restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
facilities in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An Excavation permit
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
94.136
   FACILITY OR FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service.
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next five years.
   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR. A designated portion of the public right-of-way
within which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and
competing facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   HOLE. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
less than the width of the pavement.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of such person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way permit
applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects; maintaining,
supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-way work;
determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way permits. Management costs do not include
payment by a telecommunications right-of-way user for the use of the right-of-
way, the fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of
Minnesota Session Laws 1997, Chapter 123; Minn. Statutes §§ 237.162 or 237.163;
or any ordinance enacted under those sections, or the city fees and costs
related to appeals taken pursuant to §
94.153.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a per-son may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
94.136.
   PATCH OR PATCHING. 
      (1)   A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in nature. A
patch consists of:
         (a)   The compaction of the subbase and aggregate base; and
         (b)   The replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum
of two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions.
      (2)   A patch is considered full restoration only when the pavement is
included in the city's five-year project plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning given “right-of-way permit” in Minn. Stat., §
237.162.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been grant-ed by the city under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
   PROBATION. The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions
of this chapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a person has been notified
in writing that they have been put on probation.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who:
      (1)   Has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities located in any
right-of-way; or
      (2)   In any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the right-of-way.
   RESTORE OR RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates one to 13 of Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission rules.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, cartway, bicycle lane or public sidewalk in which the city has an
interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes and
utility easements of the city. A right-of-way does not include the airwaves
above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other nonwire
telecommunications or broadcast service (note: this definition does not include
other public grounds that may be the subject of other city requirements).
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit or the obstruction permit,
or both, depending on the context, required by this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.  
      (1)   A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by Minn. Stat., §
237.162, Subd. 4; or
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a
right under law, franchise, or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
   SERVICE OR UTILITY SERVICE. Includes:
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in Minn.
Stat. 216B.02, Subds. 4 and 6;
      (2)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, in-cluding
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Services of a cable communications systems as defined in Minn.
Stat. Ch. 238;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
      (5)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association orga-nized
under Minn. Stat., Ch. 308A; and
      (6)   Water, and sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling or
heating services.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A service lateral is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer's premises.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the city's two-year plan, in which case it is considered
full restoration.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
   TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way that is used or is intended to be used for transporting
telecommunication or other voice or data information. For purposes of this
chapter, a cable communication system defined and regulated under Minn. Stat.
Ch. 238, and telecommunication activities related to providing natural gas or
electric energy services whether provided by a public utility as defined in
Minn. Stat. § 216B.02, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency
organized under Minn. Stat. Chs. 453 and 453A, or a cooperative electric
association organized under Minn. Stat. Ch. 308A, are not telecommunications
right-of-way users for purposes of this chapter.
   TWO YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next two years.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.128 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Director is the principal city official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances
related thereto. The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.129 UTILITY COORDINATION COMMITTEE.
   The city may create an Advisory Utility Coordination Committee.
Participation on the Committee is voluntary. It will be composed of any
registrants that wish to assist the city in obtaining information and, by
making recommendations regarding use of the right-of-way, and to improve the
process of performing construction work therein. The city may determine the
size of such committee and shall appoint members from a list of registrants
that have expressed a desire to assist the city.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.130 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person who occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease or assignment, must register with the city. Registration will
consist of providing application information.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way with-out first being registered with the
city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a city ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and
shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this
chapter. However, nothing herein relieves a per-son from complying with the
provisions of the Minn. Stat. Ch. 216D, Gopher One Call Law.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.131 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the city at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant's name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
      (4)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the city;
      (5)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
         (a)   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees; and
         (b)   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the right-of-
way by the registrant, its officers, agents, employees and permittees,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground facilities and collapse of
property;
      (6)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the coverages
required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will be
provided as to all such coverages;
      (7)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
      (8)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile liability
coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by the city in
amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry out the
purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (9)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
      (10)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under Minn. Stat. § 300.06 as recorded and certified to by
the Secretary of State.
      (11)   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
Federal agency, where the person is law-fully required to have such certificate
from said Commission or other state or Federal agency.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the city information as to
changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has knowledge
of any change.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.132 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations. Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by
December 1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for
underground facilities with the city. Such plan shall be submitted using a
format designated by the city and shall contain the information determined by
the city to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way.
   (B)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of all
projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
“next-year project”); and
      (2)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this section, a “five-year project”).
      (3)   The term “project” in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
      (4)   By January 1 of each year, the city will have available for
inspection in the city's office a composite list of all projects of which the
city has been informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for
keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
      (5)   Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project
in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the city and all other
registrants of all such changes in said list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another registrant
listed by the other registrant.
   (C)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.133 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate right-of-way permit from the city to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by
placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified there-in. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless:
      (1)   Such person makes a supplementary application for another right-of-
way permit before the expiration of the initial permit; and
      (2)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rule 7819.1000, Subp. 3 and
notwithstanding division (B) of this section, the city shall establish and
impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.134 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the city. Right-of-way permit
applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with, the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Registration with the city pursuant to this chapter;
   (B)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities.
   (C)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city; and
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
   (D)   Payment of disputed amounts due the city by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing.
   (E)   Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the city deems the existing construction performance
bond inadequate under applicable standards.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.135 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.136 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management
costs.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay such fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Non refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
94.146 are not refundable.
   (E)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.137 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
94.140.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following such
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee's improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with correcting the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rule
7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the city and shall comply with Minn. Rule 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee
upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the city. Said work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city,
not including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
94.140.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.138 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the city does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint
permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With city projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the city, whether or not it is a joint application by
two or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the
excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit would still be required.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.139 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater
area:
      (1)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby; and
      (2)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided here-in, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.140 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permit-tee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the city or other applicable
rule, law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to Minn. Statutes, §
216D.01 through 216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn.
Rules Chapter 7560. A permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all
applicable codes and established rules and regulations, and is responsible for
all work done in the right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who
does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with city parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   (D)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
Minn. Statutes Ch. 216D and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560 and shall require potholing or
open cutting over existing underground utilities be-fore excavating, as
determined by the Director.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.141 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.142 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as
they are not inconsistent with the Minn. Statutes, § 237.162 and 237.163.
Installation of service laterals shall be performed in accordance with Minn.
Rules Ch. 7560 and these ordinances. Service lateral installation is further
subject to those requirements and conditions set forth by the city in the
applicable permits and/or agreements referenced in §
94.147(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.143 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rule 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to the
city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the director that
the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented within
the required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
94.146.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.144 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. 
      (1)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the director of any event
regarding its facilities that it considers to be an emergency. The registrant
may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency.
Excavators’ notification to Gopher State One Call regarding an emergency
situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply for the necessary
permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the rest of the
requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for
the actions it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant's
facilities, the city will attempt to contact the local representative of each
registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event,
the city may take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the
emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities
occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
city code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any dam-age to
the right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.145 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.146 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee's control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
94.143.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to so
contact the city, or permittee's failure to timely submit an acceptable plan,
or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee's failure to
so contact the city, or permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to reasonably implement the ap-proved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   (D)   Cause for probation. From time to time, the city may establish a list
of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place the
permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working
out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly outside of
the permit authorization.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee's permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   (F)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.147 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within 90 days following completion of any work
pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the director accurate maps
and drawings certifying the “as-built” location of all equipment in-stalled,
owed and maintained by the permittee. Such maps and drawings shall include the
horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and shall be
provided consistent with the city's electronic mapping system, when practical
or as a condition imposed by the director Failure to provide maps and drawings
pursuant to this subsection shall be grounds for revoking the permit holder's
registration.
   (B)   Service laterals. 
      (1)   All permits issued for the installation or repair of service
laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules 7560.0150 Subp. 2,
shall require the permittee’s use of appropriate means of establishing the
horizontal locations of installed service laterals and the service lateral
vertical locations in those cases where the director reasonably requires it.
Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the director evidence
satisfactory to the Director of the installed service lateral locations.
Compliance with this division (B) and with applicable Gopher State One Call law
and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after December 31,
2005 shall be a condition of any city approval necessary for:
         (a)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project
including those under Minn. Statutes Ch. 429; and
         (b)   City approval under development agreements or other subdivision
or site plan approval under Minnesota Statutes Chapter 462.
      (2)   The Director shall reasonably determine the appropriate method of
providing such information to the city. Failure to provide prompt and accurate
information on the service laterals installed may result in the revocation of
the permit issued for the work or future permits to the offending permittee or
its subcontractors.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.148 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply with the
Act, with other applicable law, and with Minn. Rules 7819.3100, 7819.5000 and
7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available
to cities.
   (B)   Undergrounding. Unless otherwise agreed in a franchise between the
applicable right-of-way user and the city. Facilities in the right-of-way must
be located or relocated and maintained underground in accordance with this
section of the City Code.
   (C)   Corridors. 
      (1)   The city may assign a specific area within the right-of-way, or any
particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of facilities
that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will someday be
located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or other permits
issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of facilities
shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
      (2)   Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the city shall, no later than at
the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the
facilities are located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the
right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the city for good cause
shown, upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the
facilities, public safety, customer service needs and hardship to the
registrant.
   (D)   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this chapter, any facilities
found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be deemed to be a
nuisance. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   (E)   Limitation of space. To protect health, safety, and welfare, or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the city shall have
the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional facilities
within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the city shall strive to the
extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-
of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest,
the public's needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the
right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the
protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and future city plans
for public improvements and development projects which have been determined to
be in the public interest.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.149 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of Minn. Stat. 216D.01
through 216D.09 (“One Call Excavation Notice System”) before the start date of
any right-of-way excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in
the area to be excavated shall mark the horizontal and vertical placement of
all said facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are less than 20 inches
below a concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the
excavation contractor to establish the exact location of its facilities and the
best procedure for excavation.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.150 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move a registrant's facilities to protect it, the city
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its
facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the
city's response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant's facilities.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.151 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   Reservation of right. If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains the
facilities of a registrant, the registrant's rights in the vacated right-of-way
are governed by Minn. Rules 7819.3200.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.152 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the city, or by accepting a permit under this chapter, a
registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance
with the provisions of Minnesota Rule 7819.1250.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.153 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the city that the registrant's obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by
another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the city.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.154 APPEAL.
   (A)   A right-of-way user that:
      (1)   Has been denied registration;
      (2)   Has been denied a permit;
      (3)   Has had a permit revoked;
      (4)   Believes that the fees imposed are not in conformity with Minn.
Stat. § 237.163, Subd. 6; or
      (5)   Disputes a determination of the director regarding §
94.147(B) may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or decision
reviewed, upon writ-ten request, by the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall act on a timely written request at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, provided the right-of-way user has submitted its
appeal with sufficient time to include the appeal as a regular agenda item. A
decision by the City Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee
imposition will be in writing and supported by written findings establishing
the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 1538, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall commit or maintain such a public nuisance,
as prohibited by §
94.001(A) of this chapter, or who shall willfully omit or, on notice thereof,
refuse to remove such nuisance, shall be guilty of a penal offense. Each and
every day that such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate §
94.001(B) of this chapter shall be guilty of a penal offense.
(1992 Code, § 610:10)
   (C)   Each and every violation of any of the terms or provisions of §
94.003 of this chapter shall be a penal offense. In addition to the foregoing,
each and every person who causes any damage to be done to any paved street in
the city contrary to the terms of §
94.003 of this chapter shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of such
damage and the costs of the action, and reasonable attorney’s fees to be fixed
in amount by the court, such damages to be recovered in the name of the city.
(1992 Code, § 630:10)
   (D)   Any person who shall willfully violate §
94.040 of this chapter shall be guilty of a penal offense. Each and every day
that such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(1992 Code, § 600:30)
(Ord. 1440, passed 4-21-2009)
CHAPTER 95: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
95.01   Findings and definitions
   
95.02   Motor vehicle noise limits
   
95.03   Guidelines
   
95.04   Noise impact statements
   
95.05   Public nuisance noises prohibited
   
95.06   Exceptions; appeals
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 FINDINGS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The City Council finds that excessive noise is injurious to the public
health, safety and welfare, interferes with the quiet enjoyment of life and
property, and interferes with the tranquility and privacy of the home.
Accordingly, the city has a compelling interest in imposing time, place and
manner restrictions on such noise on a content neutral basis and in a manner
that does not unreasonably infringe on the rights of the city’s inhabitants and
visitors to engage in free speech or the free exercise of religion.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. A specific weighting of the sound pressure level
for the purpose of determining the human response to sound. The specific
weighting characteristics and tolerances are those given in the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI).
      AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL. The sound level that exists at a point of
measurement in the absence of the sound from the source of interest, the noise
emission of which is being measured, constituting the total effect of all other
sounds coming from near and far. The total of all noise in the environment,
other than the sound from the source of interest.
      CITY OFFICIAL. Any duly authorized representative of the city as
designated by the City Administrator.
      COMPRESSION ENGINE BRAKE. A braking system on an internal combustion
engine powered vehicle that allows the driver to remove portions of the
vehicle’s engine compression from service by exhausting compressed engine
gasses from the cylinders before they have a chance to force the cylinder back
down thus depriving the engine of power and slowing the vehicle, but also
creating a loud roar or growling sound.
      HIGHWAY. Any street, road or public way in the city.
      L10 LEVEL. The noise level, expressed in dBA, which is exceeded 10% of
the time for a one-hour survey, as measured by test procedures approved by the
city official.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle not operated exclusively upon
railroad tracks and any vehicle propelled or drawn by a self-propelled vehicle,
except snowmobiles.
      NOISE. Any erratic, intermittent and/or statistically random oscillations
which result in disturbing, harmful or unwanted sound.
      NOISE LEVEL. The same as SOUND LEVEL.
      PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, trustee,
association, the state and its agencies and subdivisions, or any body of
persons whether incorporated or not. With respect to acts prohibited or
required herein, PERSON shall include employees and licensees.
      SLEEPING FACILITY. Any structure or property normally used on a regular
basis for overnight lodging, including without limitation, hotels, motels,
boarding houses and campgrounds.
      SOUND. A temporal and spatial oscillation in pressure or other physical
quantity in a medium with internal forces which causes compressions and
rarefactions of that medium and which is propagable at finite speed to distant
points.
      SOUND LEVEL (NOISE LEVEL). The A-weighted sound pressure level, expressed
in dBA, obtained by use of a sound-level meter having characteristics as
specified in the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), Standard S1-4-
1961.
      SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL (SPL). Expressed in decibels (dB), is 20 times the
logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the observed sound pressure to a
reference pressure of 20 micropascals.
(1992 Code, § 1082:00) (Ord. 1382, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 95.02 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE LIMITS.
   The State Pollution Control Agency, motor vehicle noise limits, Minn. Rules
Ch. 7030, as currently enacted or hereafter amended, are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein except to the extent specifically
inconsistent with this section. The provisions thereof shall be supplemental to
the provisions of this section and shall not preempt this section unless such
preemption is required by law.
(1992 Code, § 1082:05) (Ord. 1382, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 95.03 GUIDELINES.
   The city shall adopt guidelines establishing test procedures and
instrumentation to be utilized and a copy of such guidelines shall be kept on
file in the office of the City Administration.
(1992 Code, § 1082:10) (Ord. 1382, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 95.04 NOISE IMPACT STATEMENTS.
   The city may require noise impact statements in association with, but not
limited to, changes in zoning classifications, the planning of a structure or
any operation, process, installation or alteration which may be considered as a
potential noise source.
(1992 Code, § 1082:15) (Ord. 1382, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 95.05 PUBLIC NUISANCE NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, permit or cause
to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise
within the city which would be likely to annoy, disturb, injure or endanger the
comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of a reasonable person of ordinary
sensibilities. The following non-exclusive characteristics and conditions shall
be considered in determining whether a noise is loud, disturbing or excessive
for the purposes of this section:
      (1)   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
      (2)   The duration or recurrence of the noise;
      (3)   The proximity of the noise source to any location reasonably
identifiable as a sleeping facility, residential dwelling unit, school,
institution of learning, hospital, church, courthouse or office, such that it
is reasonably likely to interfere with the peace, quiet, repose or operation of
that property;
      (4)   The number of people and their activities that are affected or
likely to be affected by the noise;
      (5)   The land use, nature and zoning of the area from which the noise
emanates and the area where it is perceived; and/or
      (6)   The sound level, if known, in comparison to the level of ambient
noise.
   (B)   The following acts constitute a presumptive public nuisance:
      (1)   Horns, signaling devices and the like. The continual sounding of
any horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle for
a period of at least 15 seconds even if interrupted by short gaps in sound on
any street, public place or private property within the city, except as a
danger warning;
      (2)   Radios, phonographs and the like. The use, operation or permitting
the playing, use or operation of any radio receiving set, phonograph, tape
recorder, compact disc player or other machine or device for the amplification,
production or reproduction of sound or any musical instrument at any time in
such manner as to be likely to annoy, disturb, injure or endanger the comfort,
repose, health, peace or safety of a reasonable person of ordinary
sensibilities who might be in its vicinity or between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. at such a volume so as to be plainly audible at the real property
boundary of the building, structure, residence or other area in which the
device is located;
      (3)   Amplified sound from a motor vehicle. The use, operation or
permitting the playing, use or operation of any radio receiving set,
phonograph, tape recorder, compact disc player or other machine or device for
the amplification, production or reproduction of sound or any musical
instrument within a motor vehicle at a volume where it is audible by any person
from a distance of 50 feet or a distance of five motor vehicle lengths or more
from the source, whichever is the lesser. Where the motor vehicle’s owner is
present that person is responsible for any violation of this division (B)(3).
If the owner is not present, the driver or person in control of the vehicle is
responsible for any violation of this division (B)(3). In addition to an owner
or driver, any person who controls or assists with the amplification,
production or reproduction of the sound in violation of this division (B)(3) is
an additional responsible party;
      (4)   Loud speakers, amplifiers for advertising and the like. The use,
operation or permitting the playing, use or operation of any radio receiving
set, phonograph, tape recorder, compact disc player or other machine or device
for the amplification, production or reproduction of sound or any musical
instrument which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial
advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building or
structure, except as may be licensed by the city pursuant to §
118.002;
      (5)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling or loud singing on the public streets within 50 feet of a residential
dwelling unit or sleeping facility between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m.;
      (6)   Noise made by animals. Noise made by dogs and other animals shall
be governed by §§
90.01 through
90.13 of this code of ordinances;
      (7)   Exhaust.
         (a)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam
engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat or motor vehicle
except through a properly working muffler or other device that is in constant
operation and effectively prevents loud or explosive engine noises, blends
exhaust noise into the overall vehicle noise to prevent excessive or unusual
noise, such as sharp popping or crackling sounds, or other sounds likely to
annoy, disturb, injure or endanger the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety
of a reasonable person of ordinary sensibilities in its vicinity; and
         (b)   Mufflers of the type commonly known as “Hollywood Mufflers” or a
muffler cutout, bypass or similar device shall not be permitted on vehicles
operated within the city.
      (8)   Defective vehicles, loads or noisy vehicle operation. The non-
emergency use or operation of any automobile, motorcycle, scooter, recreational
vehicle or other type of motor vehicle which by its out-of-repair condition,
manner of loading or operation at such speeds or in such manner as to create
loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, squealing of tires, rattling or other
noise so as to be likely to annoy, disturb, injure or endanger the comfort,
repose, health, peace or safety of a reasonable person of ordinary
sensibilities in its vicinity;
      (9)   Loading, unloading, unpacking and the like. The creation of a loud
and excessive noise in connection with loading, unloading or unpacking of any
vehicle so as to be likely to annoy, disturb, injure or endanger the comfort,
repose, health, peace or safety of a reasonable person of ordinary
sensibilities in its vicinity; and
      (10)   Engine-braking. The use of a compression engine brake device in
non-emergency situations to slow the speed of an internal combustion engine
powered motor vehicle on city streets or highways without an exhaust muffler in
good working order or other device that is effective in preventing loud engine
roaring, staccato popping or growling resulting from the use of the compression
engine brake.
(1992 Code, § 1082:20) (Ord. 1382, passed 9-6-2005) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 EXCEPTIONS; APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Public safety exceptions. The operation of authorized emergency
vehicles, including without limitation police vehicles, fire vehicles,
ambulances and city, county or state snowplowing vehicles, the use of sirens,
warning devices, sound amplification devices or other equipment by public
safety personnel in emergency situations, and the performance of any emergency
work such as utility maintenance, and snow removal necessary to restore public
service or eliminate a hazard are exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Public maintenance exceptions. The operation of authorized
maintenance vehicles of the city, county or state, or of their authorized
contractors, or of other equipment by such public maintenance personnel, or
authorized contractors, is exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Private exceptions. It is recognized that under certain
circumstances it would be impossible for a noise source to comply with the
provisions of §
95.05 of this chapter due to economic or technological reasons. In cases such
as this, an application for an exception may be made in writing to the City
Administrator or his or her designee together with an application fee in an
amount duly established by the City Council from time to time as set forth in
Appendix A to Chapter 35 entitled “Fees and Charges.” The application shall
contain the following pertinent information:
         (a)   Dates for exception requested;
         (b)   Location of particular noise source and times of operation;
         (c)   Equipment involved;
         (d)   Necessity for request of exception;
         (e)   Steps taken to minimize noise level from source; and
         (f)   Names of responsible persons.
      (4)   Notification. The city shall notify by mail all property owners
within 350 feet of the source in question of the requested exception.
Applications will be reviewed by the City Administrator, and a decision to
approve or deny the exception will be made in writing to the responsible
persons within 20 days of receipt.
(1992 Code, § 1082:25)
   (B)   The decision made by the City Administrator concerning the exception
request may be appealed to the City Council within ten days after receiving the
City Administrator’s written decision. The appeal shall be filed in writing
with the City Administrator who shall schedule a hearing before the City
Council as soon as possible. A written report shall accompany the request for
appeal. The report shall contain pertinent information which would adequately
justify the request for an exception.
(1992 Code, § 1082:30)
(Ord. 1382, passed 9-6-2005; Ord. 1554, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil remedies. This chapter may be enforced by injunction, action for
abatement or other appropriate civil remedy.
   (B)   Criminal penalties. Every person who violates any provision of this
chapter is guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject
to a fine of not more than $300. When, however, the violation is preceded by
two or more convictions within the immediate preceding 12-month period, the
violation thereof shall be a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject
to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90
days, or both. In all cases, the city shall be entitled to collect the costs of
prosecution to the extent outlined by law, Rules of Criminal Procedure and the
Rules of Court. Each act of violation and each day a violation occurs or
continues constitutes a separate offense.
(1992 Code, § 1082:35) (Ord. 1382, passed 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 96: LOITERING
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Warning; exception
   
96.03   Circumstances causing alarm
   
96.04   Intent to commit crime
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“shall” is mandatory and not merely directory.
   LOITERING. Whoever commits any of the following acts is guilty of LOITERING:
      (1)   Lingering about the entryway of any public or private premises, or
sitting or lingering upon the sidewalk, steps, windowsills, railing, fence or
parking area adjacent to any such premises in such a manner so as to obstruct
or partially obstruct ingress to or egress from such building to the annoyance
or inconvenience of owners, occupants or entrants;
      (2)   Lingering for any length of time upon any public or private
premises or move in a slow and deliberate manner without purpose or otherwise
interfere with, obstruct, or render dangerous or unreasonable for passage, any
public highway, sidewalk, parking area or right-of-way;
      (3)   Remaining for more than five minutes on any public or private
premises which are posted with a conspicuous sign containing the words “No
Loitering”; and
      (4)   Lurking, loitering or prowling in any place, at a time or in a
manner not usual for law abiding individuals, under circumstances that warrant
alarm for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
   PREMISES. Any house, yard, lot, parcel, sidewalk, boulevard, street,
highway, alley, park, playground, restaurant, café, church or other place of
worship, school, any car or other motor vehicle, parking lot, drive-in,
building used for public, business, commercial or industrial purposes,
washroom, apartment building and entryways and hallways located therein, or any
other location whether public or private in the city.
(1992 Code, § 1085:00) (Ord. 1275, passed 3-4-2002)
§ 96.02 WARNING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   A person may not be arrested or convicted under divisions (1) through
(3) of the definition of “loitering” in §
96.01 of this chapter, until after a law enforcement officer has informed the
person at least once in the previous 24-hour period that his or her action
violates this chapter and has asked the person to move to a location, if one is
available, that would not violate this chapter.
   (B)   It shall not be necessary to inform any person:
      (1)   Who is charged under division (4) of the definition of “loitering”
in §
96.01 of this chapter; or
      (2)   Who has been convicted of a violation of this chapter within one
year of the act complained of.
(1992 Code, § 1085:05) (Ord. 1275, passed 3-4-2002)
§ 96.03 CIRCUMSTANCES CAUSING ALARM.
   (A)   Prohibition. A person shall not lurk, loiter or prowl in any place, at
a time or in a manner not usual for law abiding individuals, under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances that may be considered in determining whether
alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon the appearance
of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or endeavors to
conceal himself or herself or an object.
   (B)   Authority to detain. A police officer may stop and briefly detain a
person suspected of violating division (A) above if the person’s behavior
reasonably causes suspicion of criminal activity. The officer’s reasonable
suspicion must be based on objective, articulable facts and reasonable
inferences drawn from all the circumstances surrounding the person’s behavior.
   (C)   Opportunity to dispel alarm.
      (1)   Unless flight by the person or other circumstances make it
impracticable, a police officer must, prior to any arrest for a violation of
division (A) above, allow the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm which
would otherwise be warranted by requesting him or her to identify himself or
herself and explain his or her presence and conduct. The person may identify
himself or herself by presenting any of the following:
         (a)   A state-issued identification card or driver’s license
containing the person’s photograph;
         (b)   An employer-issued identification card which verifies the
person’s employment and includes the person’s photograph;
         (c)   A currently valid passport;
         (d)   A certified copy of the person’s birth certificate; or
         (e)   Verification of the person’s identity by another person who can
establish his or her own identity by one of the documents listed above.
      (2)   An explanation of the person’s presence and conduct will be
sufficient to dispel alarm if it shows that the person was engaging in and
planning to continue engaging in, lawful activity consistent with his or her
actions and all the circumstances surrounding his or her behavior.
   (D)   Requisites for conviction. A person may not be convicted of a
violation of this section if:
      (1)   No police officer gave the person the opportunity provided in
division (C) above to dispel the alarm created by his or her actions; or
      (2)   The finder-of-fact determines that the police officer should have
accepted the person’s explanation as sufficient to dispel alarm.
(1992 Code, § 1085:10) (Ord. 1275, passed 3-4-2002) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 INTENT TO COMMIT CRIME.
   A person shall not in any public or private place lurk, loiter, prowl, lie
in wait or be concealed with intent to commit any act prohibited by law.
(1992 Code, § 1085:15) (Ord. 1275, passed 3-4-2002) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Petty misdemeanor. Whoever commits any of the acts enumerated in
the definition of “loitering” in §
96.01 of this chapter or §
96.03 of this chapter is guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
      (2)   Misdemeanor. Whoever commits any of the following acts is guilty of
a misdemeanor:
         (a)   Loitering with intent to commit a crime as provided in §
96.04 of this chapter;
         (b)   Any of the acts enumerated in this chapter within one year of
being found guilty of any violation of this chapter; and
         (c)   Failing or refusing to vacate or leave any premises after being
requested or ordered, either orally or in writing to do so by the owner, agent,
manager or person in charge thereof, or by any law enforcement officer or
official or returning at any time thereafter to any such premises after having
been so requested or ordered to vacate such premises.
(1992 Code, § 1085:20)
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, “misdemeanor” shall be defined as
defined in Minn. Stat. § 609.02, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, and “petty misdemeanor” shall be defined as defined in Minn. Stat. §
609.02, Subd. 4a, as it may be amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 1085:30)
(Ord. 1275, passed 3-4-2002)
CHAPTER 97: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Shade Tree Commission
   
97.03   Planting, removing trees in boulevards; permit; regulations
   
97.04   Tree trimming
   
97.05   Abuse or mutilation of trees
Shade Tree Pest Control
   
97.20   Declaration of policy
   
97.21   Declaration of a shade tree pest
   
97.22   Forester; position created; duties
   
97.23   Abatement of shade tree pest nuisances
   
97.24   Reporting discovery of shade tree pest
   
97.25   Inspection and application of control measures
   
97.26   Standard abatement procedures
   
97.27   High cost abatement
   
97.28   Appeal procedure
   
97.29   Abatement procedures in event of imminent danger
   
97.30   Recovery of cost of abatement; liability and assessment
Declared Shade Tree Pests, Control Measures, and Control Areas
   
97.45   Oak wilt
   
97.46   Emerald ash borer
   
97.47   Dutch elm disease
 
   
97.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“shall” is mandatory and not merely directory.
   BOULEVARD. The area between the proposed or existing sidewalk and curb on a
public street.
   CITY. The City of Owatonna, Minnesota.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of Public Works of Owatonna,
Minnesota, or a duly appointed representative.
   HOUSE-SIDEWALK. Private sidewalk running from the curb or roadway to the
principal residence.
   LARGE TREES. Those attaining a height of 30 feet or more.
   PARK. All public parks having individual names.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRINCIPAL THOROUGHFARE. Any street upon which trucks are not prohibited.
   PROPERTY LINE. The outer edge of a street or highway right-of-way.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person owning such property as shown by the current
records of the Steele County Treasurer.
   PUBLIC PLACES. All other grounds owned by the city.
   PUBLIC TREES. All shade and ornamental trees now or hereafter growing on any
street or any public areas where otherwise indicated.
   SMALL TREES. Those attaining a height of less than 30 feet.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width of every public way or right-of-way when
any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for
purposes of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
(1992 Code, § 660:00) (Ord. 1058, passed 4-7-1992; Ord. 1232, passed 5-16-2000;
Ord. 1330, passed 11-5-2003; Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.02 SHADE TREE COMMISSION.
   (A)   There shall be created a commission to be known and designated as
“Shade Tree Commission,” composed of seven citizens of the city, appointed by
the Mayor with approval of the Council. All members of the Commission shall
serve without pay. The members shall be appointed as follows: three for two
years, and four for four years, and serve until their successors are duly
appointed and approved by the Council. Successors to those members shall,
thereafter, be appointed for terms of four years. Vacancies caused by death,
resignation or otherwise, shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same
manner as original appointments are made. All terms shall expire on April 30.
   (B)   The duties of said Shade Tree Commission shall be as follows:
      (1)   To study the problems and determine the needs of the city in
connection with its tree planting program;
      (2)   To recommend to the proper authority the type and kind of trees to
be planted upon such city streets or parts of city streets or in parks as are
designated;
      (3)   To assist the properly constituted officials of the city, as well
as the Council and citizens of the city, in the dissemination of news and
information regarding the selection, planting and maintenance of trees within
the corporate limits, whether the same be on private or public property, and to
make such recommendations from time to time to the Council as to desirable
legislation concerning the tree program and activities for the city; and
      (4)   To provide regular and special meetings at which the subject of
trees insofar as it relates to the city may be discussed by the members of the
Commission, officers and personnel of the city and its several divisions, and
all others interested in the tree program.
   (C)   Within a reasonable time after the appointment of said Commission and
the approval of the members thereof, upon call of the Mayor, said Commission
shall meet and organize by the election of a Chairperson and Secretary. The
said Commission shall then provide for the adoption of rules and procedures and
for the holding of regular and special meetings as said Commission shall deem
advisable and necessary in order to perform the duties set forth.
(1992 Code, § 660:02) (Ord. 1058, passed 4-7-1992; Ord. 1232, passed 5-16-2000;
Ord. 1330, passed 11-5-2003; Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.03 PLANTING, REMOVING TREES IN BOULEVARDS; PERMIT; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permits for planting trees in boulevards.
      (1)   A permit must be secured at the office of the Director of Public
Works before planting any tree in any boulevard within the corporate limits of
the city, said permit to be in the amount duly established by the Council from
time to time. Trees are to be purchased and planted by the property owner of
the land abutting the boulevard, or by a person retained by the property owner.
Varieties of trees approved are those trees of the hard wood variety, good
appearance, adaptability to the climate, long lived and generally free from
injurious insects and diseases.
         (a)   An approved list of acceptable boulevard trees can be found on
file with the City Engineer's office.
         (b)   Property owner may petition the Shade Tree Commission for
approval of a tree variety not indicated on the approved lists.
      (2)   Any property owner securing a building permit for construction of a
new building shall be assessed a surcharge for each available planting space
within the boulevard. The surcharge for large variety trees shall be $100, and
small variety trees at $80. Small variety trees may only be used in the case of
overhead utility lines being present. The number of planting spaces shall be
determined after review of the site plan by Director of Public Works. The city
will procure, and plant each tree in April or May following the issuance of
certificate of occupancy by the city, or at another designated time if
requested by the property owner. Should the property owner desire to acquire
and plant a tree on his or her own for each available planting space within the
boulevard, with said tree(s) meeting city specifications, or should the
property owner fail to return the tree request form within one year of the
issuance of the certificate of occupancy, the surcharge will not be rebated.
Plantings by property owners shall be completed one year from certificate of
occupancy issued by the City Building Inspection Division.
      (3)   The city does not guarantee the survival of each tree. If a tree
dies any time after being planted by the city and the property owner requests a
new tree in its place, the city will plant a new tree and charge the property
owner the full cost for the replacement tree. This cost shall be certified by
the Director of Public Works to the Council prior to October 1 in each year.
The amount so charged against said premises, lots or parcels of land shall be a
lien upon the property on which said plantings were located, and shall be added
to, and become, and form part of the taxes next to be assessed and levied upon
such lot or land, and the Council shall, by appropriate resolution, assess the
costs above mentioned against said premises, and certify the same to the County
Auditor. The same shall be collected and enforced in the same manner as the
collection of real estate taxes.
   (B)   Regulations for planting trees on boulevards.
      (1)   Trees must be cultivated nursery stock which meet specifications on
file in the office of the Director of Public Works. Developers may designate a
particular variety of tree for boulevard plantings when platting occurs, which
may not provide the property owner a choice in variety selection.
      (2)   No trees shall be placed so as in the opinion of the Director of
Public Works to cause a traffic hazard.
      (3)   Small trees shall be planted at least 25 feet apart and large trees
40 feet apart.
      (4)   Trees shall not be planted closer than 44 feet from future or
existing curb returns at intersections.
      (5)   Trees shall be planted at least five feet from driveways, house-
sidewalks, visible or identifiable underground utility or light poles.
      (6)   Except where a special permit is obtained from the Director of
Public Works, no tree shall be planted on any boulevard where the distance
between the nearest edge of the sidewalk and curb is less than six feet.
      (7)   All trees shall be planted equidistant from the nearest edge of the
proposed or existing sidewalk and curb, except when the Director of Public
Works may direct otherwise.
      (8)   Trees shall be planted at least ten feet from fire hydrants.
      (9)   Where the boulevard width is inadequate or underground utilities do
not allow space to plant trees, trees may be planted on the adjacent private
property with the permission of the property owner. When a sidewalk is present,
trees shall be planted between five and ten feet from the property line onto
the adjacent private property. When no sidewalk is present, the tree shall be
planted within four feet of the front property line. These trees shall become
the property of the property owner and the care and maintenance shall be the
responsibility of the property owner.
      (10)   Only trees from the small variety list are approved for under or
near power lines.
      (11)   The Director of Public Works will assist in staking out the
location of the tree planting, at the request of the property owner. Property
owner shall call Gopher State One Call (1-800- 252-1166) to obtain utility
locations before planting the tree in the desired location. The city may direct
said property owner to replant a tree if it does not conform to planting
requirements stated elsewhere in this division (B).
   (C)   Removal of trees on boulevards.
      (1)   The city will remove trees that are determined by the Director of
Public Works to be diseased, dangerous or a public nuisance.
      (2)   Ordinary removal by the city will leave the stump in the ground,
cut off at about boulevard level. The stump will be ground out, with black dirt
and grass seed placed in the hole.
      (3)   Removal of any tree is to be approved by the Director of Public
Works before removal.
      (4)   New trees will be put in at the expense of the city when the city
removes trees in the process of street construction or reconstruction.
      (5)   Requests from property owners to remove boulevard trees for the
purpose of development, expansion, driveway placement and the like are to be
approved by the Director of Public Works. If approved, the property owner shall
be responsible for removal of the tree and stump in accordance with §
117.60 and all costs thereof. The property owner shall also be responsible for
the cost of a replacement tree if determined necessary by the Director of
Public Works.
(1992 Code, § 660:20) (Ord. 1058, passed 4-7-1992; Ord. 1135, passed 3-19-1996;
Ord. 1232, passed 5-16-2000; Ord. 1330, passed 11-5-2003; Ord. 1441, passed 4-
21-2009; Ord. 1468, passed 3-1-2011; Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 TREE TRIMMING.
   (A)   The city will perform all trimming of boulevard trees, except the
city's public utilities may do such trimming necessary to protect their
electrical lines, or residents, through a permit process, may contract with a
tree service licensed with the city to trim an adjacent boulevard tree. The
property owner shall bear the entire cost of tree trimming when using a
contracted for tree service.
   (B)   Where city gives permission, a limb or bough may be properly pruned by
abutting property owner.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm
or city department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public
property.
      (2)   TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs
within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree.
      (3)   (a)   Any person or firm which has received approval for the
trimming of trees on public property or right-of-way shall use trimming
practices set forth in the city's tree trimming policy manual in effect at the
time of the approval.
         (b)   Said manual is available at no charge at the City Street
Division Office.
      (4)   Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees
under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical may be exempted from this subchapter at the determination of the
City Forester, as provided in §
97.22(A), or his or her designee.
   (D)   When any tree within a public right-of-way creates a hazard for
vehicular or pedestrian traffic, said tree will be pruned by the city, at the
city's expense.
   (E)   When any tree located on private property creates an imminent and
immediate danger or hazard to the general public, and upon notice to the city
by the property owner or other person, said tree will be pruned, trimmed or
removed by the city, at the city's expense.
(1992 Code, § 660:10) (Ord. 1058, passed 4-7-1992; Ord. 1232, passed 5-16-2000;
Ord. 1330, passed 11-5-2003; Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 ABUSE OR MUTILATION OF TREES.
   No person, except as covered by §§
97.03(C) and
97.04 of this chapter, shall willfully damage, injure, mar, deface or destroy
any tree on any boulevard in the city.
(1992 Code, § 660:25) (Ord. 1058, passed 4-7-1992; Ord. 1232, passed 5-16-2000;
Ord. 1330, passed 11-5-2003; Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017) Penalty, see §
97.99
SHADE TREE PEST CONTROL
§ 97.20 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   The health of the trees in the city is threatened by shade tree pests,
and the loss or ill health of trees growing upon public and private property
substantially depreciates the value of property within the city and impairs the
safety, good order, general welfare and convenience of the public. In addition
to and in accordance with Minn. Stat. §§ 89.001, 89.01, and 89.51 through
89.64, the provisions of this section are adopted as an effort to control and
prevent the spread of these shade tree pests.
   (B)   The city shall have control of all street trees, shrubs, and other
plantings now or hereafter in any street, park, public right-of-way or
easement, or other public place within the city limits, and shall have the
power to plant, care for, maintain, remove, and replace such trees, shrubs, and
other plantings.
(Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.21 DECLARATION OF A SHADE TREE PEST.
   (A)   The city may by ordinance declare any vertebrate or invertebrate
animal, plant pathogen, or plant in the community threatening to cause
significant damage to a shade tree or community forest, as defined by Minn.
Stat. § 89.001, Subd. 16, to be a shade tree pest and prescribe control
measures to effectively eradicate, control, or manage the shade tree pest,
including necessary timelines for action.
   (B)   A shade tree pest occurring within a defined control zone is a public
nuisance.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to permit any public nuisance as defined
in this chapter to remain on any premises the person owns or controls within
the city. The nuisance may be abated as provided in the chapter.
(Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.22 FORESTER; POSITION CREATED; DUTIES.
   (A)   The position of Forester is hereby created within the Public Works
Department of the city.
   (B)   It is the duty of the Forester to coordinate, under the direction and
control of the Council, all activities of the city relating to the control and
prevention of damage by shade tree pests. The Forester shall recommend to the
Council the details of any program for the declaration, control, and prevention
of shade tree pests. The Forester is authorized to enforce or cause to be
enforced the tasks incident to such a program adopted by the Council.
(Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.23 ABATEMENT OF SHADE TREE PEST NUISANCES.
   (A)   In abating a nuisance, defined under this chapter, the organism,
condition, plant, tree, wood, or material identified as injurious to the health
of shade trees shall be removed or effectively treated so as to destroy and
prevent as fully as possible the spread of the shade tree pest. Such abatement
procedures shall be carried out in accordance with the control measures and
areas prescribed by section.
   (B)   If the appropriate abatement procedure is removal, and the tree(s)
and/or hedge(s) are within the limits of a highway in a rural area within the
city's jurisdiction, Minn. Stat. § 160.22 shall be complied with as necessary.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation that provides tree care, tree
trimming, or removal of trees, limbs, branches, brush, or shrubs for hire must
be registered with the Minnesota Commissioner of Agriculture under Minn. Stat.
§ 18G.07.
(Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.24 REPORTING DISCOVERY OF SHADE TREE PEST.
   Any owner or occupier of land or any person engaged in tree trimming or
removal who becomes aware of the existence of a public nuisance caused by a
shade tree pest as defined in this chapter shall report the same to the city.
(Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.25 INSPECTION AND APPLICATION OF CONTROL MEASURES.
   (A)   The City Forester is authorized to inspect premises and places within
the city to determine whether shade tree pests exist thereon and to investigate
all reported incidents of shade tree pests. The City Forester is authorized to
take all reasonable measures to prevent the maintenance of public nuisances and
may enforce the provisions relating to abatement in this section. Diagnosis of
shade tree pests may be by the presence of commonly recognized symptoms; by
tests as may be recommended by the commissioner of the Minnesota Department of
Agriculture or the commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources; or other reliable means.
   (B)   Entry on private premises. The City Forester may enter upon private
premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of carrying out any of the
duties assigned to him.
   (C)   No person, firm, or corporation shall interfere with the City Forester
or with anyone acting under the City Forester's authority while engaged in
activities authorized by this section.
(Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.26 STANDARD ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Whenever a City Forester determines with reasonable certainty that a
public nuisance, as described by this ordinance, is being maintained or exists
on premises in the city, the City Forester is authorized to abate a public
nuisance according to the procedures in this chapter.
   (B)   The City Forester will notify in writing the owner of record or
occupant of the premises that a public nuisance exists and order that the
nuisance be terminated or abated. The notice shall be delivered by certified
mail.
   (C)   The notice of abatement shall state that unless the public nuisance is
abated by the owner or occupant, it will be abated by the city at the expense
of the owner or occupant. The notice shall specify the control measures to be
taken to abate the nuisance, and provide a reasonable amount of time to abate
the nuisance. The notice will also state that the owner or occupant has the
right to appeal the determination that a public nuisance exists by submitting a
request in writing to the City Clerk within seven days after service of the
notice, or before the date by which abatement must be completed, whichever
comes first.
   (D)   If no timely appeal is submitted, and the control measures prescribed
in the notice of abatement are not complied with within the time provided by
the notice or any additional time granted, the City Forester or designated
person shall have the authority to enter the property and carry out abatement
in accordance with the notice of abatement.
(Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.27 HIGH COST ABATEMENT.
   If the City Forester determines that the cost of abating a nuisance will
exceed $5,000 based on a reasonable, good faith estimate, the written notice
referred to in this chapter must provide that if the nuisance is not abated
within the reasonable amount of time provided, the matter will be referred to
the City Council for a hearing. The date, time, and location of the hearing
must be provided in the notice.
(Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.28 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   If the City Clerk receives a written request for a hearing on the question
of whether a public nuisance exists, the City Council shall hold a hearing
within 14 calendar days following receipt by the clerk of the written request.
At least three days of notice of the hearing shall be given to the owner who
made the written request for the hearing. The Council may modify the abatement
notice or extend the time by which abatement must be completed. Each owner,
agent of the owner, occupant, and lienholder of the subject property or
properties in attendance, if any, shall be given the opportunity to present
evidence at the hearing. After holding the hearing, the City Council may issue
an order requiring abatement of the nuisance.
(Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.29 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES IN EVENT OF IMMINENT DANGER.
   (A)   If the city forester determines that the danger of infestation to
other shade trees is imminent, and delay in control measures may put public
health, safety, or welfare in immediate danger, the City Forester may provide
for abatement without following standard procedures in this chapter. The City
Forester must reasonably attempt to notify the owner or occupant of the
affected property of the intended action and the right to appeal the abatement
and any cost recovery at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the city, without notice or
other process, from immediately abating any condition that poses an imminent
and serious hazard to human life or safety.
(Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.30 RECOVERY OF COST OF ABATEMENT; LIABILITY AND ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The City Forester shall keep a record of the costs of abatement done
under this section and shall report monthly to the Clerk-Treasurer, or other
appropriate officer, all work done for which assessments are to be made,
stating and certifying the descriptions of the land, lots, parcels involved and
the amount chargeable to each.
   (B)   On or before September 1 of each year, the Clerk-Treasurer shall list
the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate lot or parcel
to which they are attributable under this chapter. The Council may then spread
the charges or any portion thereof against the property involved as a special
assessment under Minn. Stat. § 429.101, and other pertinent statutes for
certification to the County Auditor and collection, the following year along
with current taxes.
(Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
DECLARED SHADE TREE PESTS, CONTROL MEASURES, AND CONTROL AREAS
§ 97.45 OAK WILT.
   (A)   Oak wilt disease is a shade tree pest and is defined as any living or
dead tree, log, firewood, limb, branch, stump, or other portion of a tree from
any species of the genus Quercus existing within the control area defined that
has bark attached and that exceeds three inches in diameter or ten inches in
circumference and contains to any degree any spore or reproductive structures
of the fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum. Identification to be determined by the
City Forester.
   (B)   Control measures that may be taken to abate oak wilt disease are:
      (1)   Installation of a root graft barrier. A root graft barrier can be
ordered installed to prevent the underground spread of oak wilt disease. The
city will mark the location of the root graft barrier. The barrier disrupts
transmission of the fungus within the shared vascular systems of root grafted
trees. The barrier is created by excavating or vibratory plowing a line at
least 42 inches deep between any oak tree infected with oak wilt disease and
each nearby and apparently healthy oak tree within 50 feet of the infected
tree.
      (2)   Removal and disposal of trees.
         (a)   On property zoned for residential and commercial use.
            1.   On property that is zoned residential and commercial the city
may mark for removal trees that contain to any degree any spore or reproductive
structures of the fungus Ceratocystis Fagacearum. After, and in no case before,
the installation of the root graft barrier and no later than May 1 of the year
following infection, all marked trees must be felled. The stump from such
felled trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if
taller, must be completely debarked.
            2.   If, however, after the city prescribes the location for a root
graft barrier, the city determines that installation of the barrier is
impossible because of the presence of pavement or obstructions such as a septic
system or utility line, the city may mark for removal all oak trees whether
living or dead, infected or not and located between an infected tree and the
marked barrier location. These marked trees must be felled and disposed of no
later than May 1 of the year following infection. The stump from such felled
trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if taller,
must be completely debarked.
         (b)   On all other property.
            1.   On all other property, the city may mark for removal all oak
trees whether living or dead, infected or not and located between an infected
tree and the marked barrier location. These marked trees must be felled and
disposed of no later than May 1 of the year following infection. The stump from
such felled trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or,
if taller, must be completely debarked.
            2.   All wood more than three inches in diameter or ten inches in
circumference from such felled trees must be disposed of by burying, debarking,
chipping, or sawing into wane-free lumber, or by splitting into firewood,
stacking the firewood, and immediately covering the woodpile with unbroken
four-mill or thicker plastic sheeting that is sealed into the ground until
October 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the tree
was felled, or by burning before May 1 of the year following infection. Wood
chips from infected trees may be stockpiled or immediately used in the
landscape.
   (C)   The control area for oak wilt disease is defined as: all lands within
the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.46 EMERALD ASH BORER.
   (A)   Emerald ash borer is a shade tree pest and is defined as an insect
that attacks and kills ash trees. The adults are small, iridescent green
beetles that live outside of trees during the summer months. The larvae are
grub- or worm-like and live underneath the bark of ash trees. Identification to
be determined by the City Forester.
   (B)   Control measures that may be taken to abate emerald ash borer are
those provided by the Minnesota Department of Health, Minnesota Department of
Agriculture, Minnesota Emerald Ash Borer Science Advisory Group, and the city's
most recent EAB management plan.
   (C)   Definition of control areas. The control area for emerald ash borer is
defined as: all lands within the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.47 DUTCH ELM DISEASE.
   (A)   Dutch elm disease is a shade tree pest and is defined as a disease of
elm trees caused by the fungus Ophiostoma ulmi or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi, and
includes any living or dead tree, log, firewood, limb, branch, stump, or other
portion of a tree from any species of the genus Ulmus existing within the
control area defined that has bark attached and that exceeds three inches in
diameter or ten inches in circumference and could contain bark beetles or any
spore or reproductive structures of the fungus Ophiostoma ulmi or Ophiostoma
novo-ulmi.
   (B)   Control measures that may be taken to abate Dutch elm disease are:
      (1)   Use of fungicide. Fungicides may be effective in preventing Dutch
elm disease when injected into living trees that do not already show symptoms
of Dutch elm disease. Fungicide injections on private lands are optional and,
if performed, are at the landowner's expense.
      (2)   Removal and disposal of trees. Prompt removal of diseased trees or
branches reduces breeding sites for elm bark beetles and eliminates the source
of Dutch elm disease fungus. Trees that wilt before July 15 must be removed
within 30 days of detection. Trees that wilt after July 15 must be removed by
April 1 of the following year. Diseased trees not promptly removed will be
removed by the city at the landowner's expense. Wood may be retained for use as
firewood or saw logs if it is debarked or covered from April 15 to October 15
with four-mill plastic. The edges of the cover must be buried or sealed to the
ground.
   (C)   Definition of control areas. The control area for Dutch elm disease is
defined as: all lands within the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation that violates any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty, which
may be imposed for any crime that is a misdemeanor under this section,
including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, shall be as
provided in §
10.99 of the city code.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a misdemeanor, the costs of prosecution may be
added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this section shall not subject the officer or employee
to the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (D)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if any
person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this
section, the City Council or any official designated by it may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct, or abate the
violation.
(1992 Code, § 660:10) (Ord. 1058, passed 4-7-1992; Ord. 1232, passed 5-16-2000;
Ord. 1330, passed 11-5-2003; Ord. 1556, passed 1-3-2017)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   FIREWORKS
      
112.   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
      
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
114.   TOBACCO
      
115.   RENTAL PROPERTY
      
116.   AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
      
117.   UTILITY INSTALLERS AND CONTRACTORS; PUBLIC WORKS
      
118.   SALES OF GOODS
      
119.   TAXICABS
      
120.   CHARITABLE GAMBLING
      
121.   MICROMOBILITY SHARING OPERATIONS
      122.   CANNABIS REGULATION
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Application of regulations
   
110.02   Application for licenses
   
110.03   Fees, bond and insurance
   
110.04   Procedure for issuance of licenses
   
110.05   Certified copies
   
110.06   Unlawful licenses
   
110.07   Contents of license
   
110.08   License period
   
110.09   Renewal license procedure
   
110.10   Duplicate and replacement license procedure
   
110.11   Rebate of fee
   
110.12   Change of location of licensed premises
   
110.13   Transfer of license
   
110.14   Enforcement generally
   
110.15   Termination of license
   
110.16   Hearing
   
110.17   Payment of taxes on licensed premises
Duties of Licensees
   
110.30   Compliance required
   
110.31   Permit inspection
   
110.32   Ceasing business
   
110.33   License displayed
   
110.34   Unlawful possession
   
110.35   Paying taxes
   
110.36   Inspections
Cross-reference:
   Fees for licenses, permits, see
Ch. 35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance required. It shall be unlawful for any person, either
directly or indirectly, to engage in any business, or to use in connection
therewith any vehicle, premises, machine or device, in whole or in part, for
which a license or permit is required by any provision of this title or any
other law or ordinance of the city, without a license or permit therefor being
first procured and kept in effect at all times as required by any such
provision of this title or any other law or ordinance of the city.
   (B)   One act constitutes doing business. For the purpose of this title, any
person shall be deemed to be engaged in any business for which a license or
permit is required, and thus subject to the requirements of this title when he
or she does one act of:
      (1)   Selling any goods or service for which a license is required;
      (2)   Soliciting such business or offering such goods or services for
sale or hire; and/or
      (3)   Acquiring or using any vehicle or any premises in the city for such
business purposes.
   (C)   Agents responsible for obtaining license. The agents or other
representatives of non-residents who are doing business in the city shall be
personally responsible for the compliance with the provisions of this title by
their principals and of the businesses they represent.
   (D)   Separate license for branch establishments. A license shall be
obtained in the manner prescribed herein for each branch establishment or
location of the business engaged in, as if each such branch establishment or
location were a separate business; provided that, warehouses and distributing
plants used in connection with and incidental to a business licensed under any
provision of this title shall not be deemed to be a separate place of business
or branch establishment.
   (E)   No license required for mere delivery. No license shall be required of
any person for any mere delivery in the city of any property purchased or
acquired in good faith from such person at his or her regular place of business
outside the corporate limits where no intent by such person is shown to exist
to evade the provisions of this title.
(1992 Code, § 400:00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSES.
   (A)   Every person required to procure any permit, license or transfer under
the provisions of this title or any other law or ordinance of the city shall
submit an application for such license to the Clerk- Treasurer in writing.
   (B)   The application shall:
      (1)   Be a written statement upon forms provided by the Clerk-Treasurer,
such form to include an affidavit to be sworn to by the applicant before a
person authorized to administer an oath;
      (2)   Contain all information necessary to comply with the section of
this title under which the license is required and any other information
required by such application;
      (3)   Contain, in addition to other matters required by ordinance or by
law to be shown, and set forth the following facts:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Purpose for which license or permit is asked;
         (c)   As to license any occupation or permit the doing of any act, the
place within the corporate limits where such occupation or act is to be carried
on or done; and
         (d)   The length of time such licenses or permits is to cover.
      (4)   All questions on the application blank must be answered and all
information required must be furnished.
   (C)   Any application for a license made by an individual owner shall be
signed and sworn to by such owner; if made by a partnership, it shall be signed
and sworn to by one of the partners; and, if a corporation, by one of the duly
elected officials of the corporation.
(1992 Code, § 400:03)
§ 110.03 FEES, BOND AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   General. Every applicant for any permit, license or transfer of a
license to be issued or granted by the city at the time of filing such
application shall pay the full amount of the permit fee, license fee or
transfer fee required by this title and other ordinances of the city, and shall
file the application, any bond, insurance policy or certificate therefor, and
certified copy of a state license, if such are required for such license.
(1992 Code, § 400:06)
   (B)   Fees. Except as otherwise specifically stated in the regulations for
specific licenses or permits, the fees for the various licenses, permits and
transfers shall be as fixed or estimated in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances or as otherwise provided in the fees
ordinances adopted hereafter.
(1992 Code, § 400:09)
   (C)   No split fee. The fee for each license issued shall be the full amount
provided in this code or ordinances or other ordinances of the city and no
reduction in the amount of the fee shall be made because part of the license
year has elapsed prior to the date the license is issued, unless specifically
stated.
(1992 Code, § 400:12)
   (D)   Permit fee doubled. Should any person, firm or corporation begin any
construction, installation, alteration or repair for which a permit is
required, without having secured the necessary permit therefor, either previous
to or during the day of the commencement of any such work, or on the succeeding
day when such work is commenced on a Saturday afternoon or on a Sunday or a
holiday, he or she shall, when subsequently securing such permit, be required
to pay double the fee provided for such permit, and shall be subject to all the
penal provisions of this code or ordinances or other ordinances of the city.
(1992 Code, § 400:15)
   (E)   License bonds. If the provisions under which any license is to be
issued require the licensee to furnish a bond, such bond shall be duly executed
by the licensee and a corporate surety, and shall be furnished to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the time the application is filed or as soon thereafter as the
Clerk- Treasurer shall request. Such bond shall be in such amount and with such
penalty provisions as shall be required by said provision and shall be approved
as to form, execution, surety and amount by the Clerk- Treasurer. Such bonds
may be in form as to terminate with the annual license period or may be in form
so as to provide for automatic renewal in the event the license is renewed.
(1992 Code, § 400:18)
§ 110.04 PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   On receipt of an application for any license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
transmit the same together with license bond and copy of receipt for license
fee to the Chief of Police or other department responsible therefor, who shall
cause investigation to be made of the qualifications of the applicant and the
Clerk-Treasurer shall determine whether the applicant has complied with all
requirements of the ordinance under which the license is to be issued and which
requirements are prerequisites to the issuance of the license. Unless the
division of the ordinance pursuant to which the license is to be issued
requires issuance of the license by the Council, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue license upon determination that such prerequisites have been complied
with, but if he or she shall have determined that such prerequisites have not
been complied with, he or she shall deny the application for issuance of the
license. If any ordinance shall require issuance of a license by the Council,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall refer the application, together with a report of the
investigation and determination with respect to the applicant and his or her
compliance with the said requirements of the ordinance, to the Council. The
Council shall thereupon consider the said report and findings and may grant or
deny the license. The applicant for any license which has been denied by the
Clerk-Treasurer may appeal the decision of the Clerk-Treasurer to the Council
by filing, with the Clerk-Treasurer within ten days after receipt of notice of
such denial, a request for review by the Council of such determination by the
Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall thereupon refer said request to the
Council at its next regular meeting, at which time the Council shall hear the
applicant and review the determination of the Clerk-Treasurer and may grant or
deny such license.
(1992 Code, § 400:21)
§ 110.05 CERTIFIED COPIES.
   Such record or a certified copy thereof shall be prima facie evidence to the
person therein named.
(1992 Code, § 400:24)
§ 110.06 UNLAWFUL LICENSES.
   Any license or permit issued in any other manner than that herein prescribed
shall be of no effect.
(1992 Code, § 400:27)
§ 110.07 CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued under this title shall state upon its face the
following:
   (A)   Name of the licensee and any other name under which such business
shall be conducted;
   (B)   The name and address of each business so licensed;
   (C)   The amount of license fee;
   (D)   The dates of issuance and expiration thereof; and
   (E)   Such other information as the Clerk-Treasurer or Council shall
determine.
(1992 Code, § 400:30)
§ 110.08 LICENSE PERIOD.
   (A)   All permits, licenses or transfers issued under the provisions of this
title shall terminate on July 1 of each year unless a different termination
date with respect to specific licenses shall be specifically provided in this
code or ordinances with respect to such permit, license or transfer, unless
sooner revoked or determined by due authority of law.
   (B)   All licenses for circus, caravan, side show, concert or other
performance, issued for a specific number of days, and all other licenses
granted for a specific number of days shall expire as therein specified.
(1992 Code, § 400:33)
§ 110.09 RENEWAL LICENSE PROCEDURE.
   Applications for renewal of any license shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer
on forms provided by him or her and shall contain any information required for
renewal of the license by the chapter or section of this title under which the
license is to be issued, and such additional information as the Clerk-
Treasurer or Council shall require.
(1992 Code, § 400:36)
§ 110.10 DUPLICATE AND REPLACEMENT LICENSE PROCEDURE.
   A duplicate license certificate or tag shall be issued by the Clerk-
Treasurer to replace any license certificate or tag previously issued which has
been lost, stolen, defaced or destroyed, without any willful conduct on the
part of the licensee, upon the filing by the licensee of an affidavit attesting
to such fact and paying to the Clerk-Treasurer the required fee.
(1992 Code, § 400:39)
§ 110.11 REBATE OF FEE.
   No rebate or refund of any license fee or part thereof shall be made by
reason of non-use of such license, or by reason of a change in location or
business rendering the use of such license ineffective, provided that the
Clerk-Treasurer shall have authority to refund a license fee collected through
an error or in cases where the application is denied by the Clerk-Treasurer or
the Council.
(1992 Code, § 400:42)
§ 110.12 CHANGE OF LOCATION OF LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   A licensee or permittee shall not have the right to change the
location of the licensed premises, except upon the approval of the Clerk-
Treasurer if the license shall be issued by him or her, or upon the approval of
the Council if the license shall be issued by the Council.
   (B)   Application for such removal shall be made in writing in such form as
shall be prescribed by the Clerk-Treasurer and shall be accompanied by the
required removal fee.
(1992 Code, § 400:48)
§ 110.13 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No licensee shall have the right to transfer his or her license to any other
person unless specifically authorized by this title or pursuant to the specific
provisions under which the license was issued.
(1992 Code, § 400:51)
§ 110.14 ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   Inspections. It shall be the duty of the Building Official to inspect
all premises licensed hereunder for the purpose of determining any violation of
law relating to health. It shall be the duty of the police officers to inspect
and examine all premises, businesses and enterprises subject to license, or
which have been licensed by the city, and the appropriate officer may make such
inspections at all reasonable times. It shall be the duty of Fire Department
inspectors to perform Fire Code inspections required hereunder.
   (B)   Sealing of unlicensed, defective or unsafe machines or devices and
affixing license insignia. Any food vending machine, pinball machine,
mechanical amusement device or other amusement device which is defective or
unsafe, or which is licensed and has no license tag or other license insignia
affixed as required by law, or is required to be licensed and such machine or
device is not currently licensed, may be sealed by a tape or wire to prevent
its continued use. The tape or tag attached to the seal shall state that the
machine or device is not to be used.
   (C)   Removing seal, using machine prohibited. No person shall remove or
deface a seal affixed under these provisions, except under the direction of an
authorized agent of the city. No person shall use any machine or device on
which a seal has been affixed under the provisions hereof.
(1992 Code, § 400:54) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.15 TERMINATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   At any time that the Clerk-Treasurer or other official responsible for
enforcement shall determine that any person licensed under this title or other
ordinance of the city shall have failed to comply with any requirement of law
or with any provision of this title, the Clerk-Treasurer shall notify said
licensee in writing of such violation, such notice to be delivered by the U.S.
mail or personally as the Clerk-Treasurer may determine, and deposit of the
notice in the U.S. mail, addressed to the address stated on the license
application, shall constitute service of the notice. If such person cannot be
otherwise found, the notice may be posted on the premises licensed.
   (B)   The notice shall require compliance with the provision of law, code or
ordinance specified within a reasonable time to be specified by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   Upon expiration of said time, unless the licensee shall have requested
a hearing in writing, the Clerk-Treasurer, in the event that the license
involved shall have been issued by the Clerk-Treasurer, may terminate the
license, or in the event that the license has been issued by the Council, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall report the matter to the Council and the Council may
thereafter terminate such license, subject to compliance with any procedure
prescribed by the provisions of the ordinance pursuant to which the license or
permit was issued.
(1992 Code, § 400:57)
§ 110.16 HEARING.
   In the event that a hearing is requested by the licensee, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall set a time for such hearing not less than ten days and not more
than 20 days after request, at which time the Clerk-Treasurer shall hear all
testimony offered by the licensee, and shall inform the licensee of all
information upon which alleged violation of law by the licensee has been
determined. If the license has been issued by the Council, such hearing shall
be conducted by the Council. On completion of such hearing, the Clerk-
Treasurer or Council, as the case may be, may make a final order suspending or
terminating the license in question. Upon the entry of any such order by the
Clerk-Treasurer, the licensee may appeal the determination of the Clerk-
Treasurer to the Council by filing request for such appeal with the Clerk-
Treasurer within ten days after receipt of notification of the order of the
Clerk-Treasurer, and the Council shall thereupon promptly hear the licensee and
review the determination of the Clerk-Treasurer and make its final order
sustaining or modifying the determination of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1992 Code, § 400:60)
§ 110.17 PAYMENT OF TAXES ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   It shall be a condition to the issuance of any license by the city pursuant
to this title or any of the ordinances of the city hereinafter referred to and
amended that all real estate taxes and special assessments levied against the
premises licensed shall be paid prior to the last date when payable without
penalty. Upon receipt of evidence that such taxes or special assessments levied
against any such premises have become delinquent, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
notify the licensee of the delinquency and that all licenses issued for the
premises under the circumstances hereinafter described shall be terminated and
canceled 30 days after date of the notice, and unless such taxes and special
assessments are paid and the County Treasurer’s receipt for the same delivered
to the Clerk-Treasurer within said 30-day period, the license described in said
notice shall, upon termination of said 30-day period, be deemed canceled and
terminated; provided, however, that, no such license shall be canceled or
terminated during the time in which any judicial proceeding is pending
challenging the validity of the amount of the tax or special assessment in
question.
(1992 Code, § 400:63)
DUTIES OF LICENSEES
§ 110.30 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Every licensee and permittee under any provision of this title or other
ordinances of the city shall have the duties set forth in this subchapter and
shall ascertain and at all times comply with all laws, ordinances and
regulations applicable to such business.
(1992 Code, § 400:45) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.31 PERMIT INSPECTION.
   Every licensee shall permit all reasonable inspections of his or her
business and examinations of his or her books and records by such authorities
as so authorized by law.
(1992 Code, § 400:45) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.32 CEASING BUSINESS.
   Every licensee shall refrain from operating the licensed business after
expiration of his or her license and during the period his or her license is
revoked or suspended.
(1992 Code, § 400:45) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.33 LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   All licenses, tags, plates or other method of identification authorized by
this title or other ordinances of the city shall be kept on display at a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises, vehicle or device, or where neither
premises, vehicle or device are licensed, on the person of the licensee or, in
the case of licenses for billboards or signboards, at the place of business of
the licensee.
(1992 Code, § 400:45) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.34 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION.
   No licensee shall loan, sell, give or assign to any other person, or to
allow any other person to use or display or to have in his or her possession,
any license or insignia which has been issued to such licensee.
(1992 Code, § 400:45) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.35 PAYING TAXES.
   Every licensee shall pay, prior to date penalty attaches for non-payment,
all special assessment and real and personal property taxes levied against real
and personal property owned by the licensee and used in the licensed business.
(1992 Code, § 400:45) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.36 INSPECTIONS.
   All persons licensed hereunder are subject to proper periodic inspections,
so far as to give the police officers and other duly authorized inspectors the
right and power at all times to enter upon their premises for the purpose of
ascertaining the manner in which the business is being conducted.
(1992 Code, § 400:45) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: FIREWORKS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose and findings
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   License required
   
111.04   License fee; term of license
   
111.05   License application
   
111.06   License application verification and consideration
   
111.07   Persons and locations ineligible for a license
   
111.08   License restrictions
   
111.09   Operation restrictions
   
111.10   Sanctions for license violations
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the sale of permitted
consumer fireworks in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
general public.
   (B)   The City Council makes the following findings regarding the need to
license and regulate the sale, distribution, storage and display of fireworks
permitted under state law.
      (1)   Consumer fireworks contain pyrotechnic chemical compositions that
are combustible; accordingly, the unregulated accumulation, storage, display
and sale of these items present a fire safety hazard.
      (2)   The improper disposal of consumer fireworks presents environmental
hazards.
      (3)   Regular inspection, sampling and testing of the consumer fireworks
being offered for sale is necessary to assure compliance with the limitations
set forth in Minn. Stat. § 624.20, Subd. 1(c), as it may be amended from time
to time, as to chemical content.
      (4)   Regular police inspections are necessary to prevent the sale of
these materials to minors.
      (5)   Regular inspections by the City Fire Chief are necessary to prevent
improper display, storage and disposal of consumer fireworks.
      (6)   Accurate information concerning the addresses and locations of
persons dealing in permitted consumer fireworks in the city is necessary to
facilitate the inspection of the premises for compliance with necessary safety
regulations and performance standards and to assist the city in responding to
any emergency situation arising out of or adjacent to this business.
(1992 Code, § 420:00) (Ord. 1310, passed 4-1-2003; Ord. 1341, passed 5-4-2004)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT. A person 18 years of age or older.
   BUSINESS. The business of selling, storing or displaying any form of
permitted consumer fireworks.
   ISSUING AUTHORITY. The City of Owatonna.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The premises described in the approved license
application and approved site plan for the sale, display and storage of
permitted consumer fireworks.
   LICENSEE. The person to whom a license is issued under this chapter,
including any agents or employees of the person.
   LICENSED CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those non-explosive, non-aerial pyrotechnic
entertainment devices containing only the limited amounts of pyrotechnic
chemical compositions permitted by Minn. Stat. § 624.20, Subd. 1(c), as it may
be amended from time to time.
   PERSON. One or more natural persons; a partnership, including a limited
partnership; a corporation, including a foreign, domestic or non-profit
corporation; a trust; a political subdivision of the state; or any other
business organization.
(1992 Code, § 420:05) (Ord. 1310, passed 4-1-2003; Ord. 1341, passed 5-4-2004)
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall keep for retail sale or wholesale distribution, sell at
retail or wholesale, or otherwise supply or furnish as part of a commercial
transaction any permitted consumer fireworks without first having obtained a
current license hereunder, paid the required license fee and conspicuously
posted the license on the licensed premises. Issuance of a license under this
chapter shall not relieve the person from obtaining any other licenses required
by this code of ordinances, state law or federal law to conduct this or other
businesses at the same or any other location.
(1992 Code, § 420:10) (Ord. 1310, passed 4-1-2003; Ord. 1341, passed 5-4-2004)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 LICENSE FEE; TERM OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The annual license fee shall be in the amount duly established by the
Council from time to time. The license fee shall cover the administrative and
enforcement costs, including the conduct of unannounced compliance checks,
inspections by the Fire Chief, inspections by the Police Department or other
city department, as well as sampling and testing of the merchandise to
ascertain chemical content. Full payment of the required license fee shall
accompany the application.
   (B)   When the license is for premises not ready for occupancy, the time
fixed for computation of the license fee for the initial license period shall
be 90 days after approval of the license or upon the date the building is ready
for occupancy, whichever is sooner.
   (C)   When a new license application is submitted as a result of
incorporation by an existing licensee and the ownership, control and interest
in the license are unchanged, no additional fee shall be required.
   (D)   A separate fee and license shall be required for each separate, non-
contiguous licensed premises, even if owned and operated by the same licensee.
An application for the renewal of an existing license shall be made prior to
the expiration date of the license and shall be made in such form as the
issuing authority requires.
   (E)   The annual license expires December 31 of each year.
   (F)   The annual license fee of each retail seller that is in the business
of selling only the permitted consumer fireworks as described by Minn. Stat. §
624.20, Subd. 1(c), as it may be amended from time to time, may not exceed
$350, and the annual license fee of each other retail seller may not exceed
$100.
(1992 Code, § 420:15) (Ord. 1310, passed 4-1-2003; Ord. 1341, passed 5-4-2004)
§ 111.05 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   An application for a license under this chapter shall be made on a form
supplied by the issuing authority and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Whether the applicant is a natural person, corporation, partnership or
any other business association or organization;
   (B)   The applicant’s full legal name, mailing address and telephone number;
   (C)   The street address or legal description of the premises to be licensed
and the zoning district;
   (D)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due and
payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid and, if not paid, the
years and amounts that are unpaid;
   (E)   Whenever the application is for premises either planned or under
construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application shall be
accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed
premises to be licensed. If the plans or design are on file with the City
Building and Inspection Division, no plans need be submitted to the issuing
authority;
   (F)   If the applicant does not own the business premises, a true and
correct copy of the current, executed lease, as well as the written
authorization of the property owner for the applicant’s use of the property for
the sale of permitted consumer fireworks;
   (G)   The applicant’s hours of operation, description of on-site management
and parking facilities;
   (H)   A detailed site plan illustrating and describing the proposed sales
and storage areas covered by the license;
   (I)   The full name, mailing address and telephone number of the person in
charge of the licensed premises; and
   (J)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require.
(1992 Code, § 420:20) (Ord. 1310, passed 4-1-2003; Ord. 1341, passed 5-4-2004)
§ 111.06 LICENSE APPLICATION VERIFICATION AND CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Verification. Applications for a license under this chapter shall be
submitted to the issuing authority who shall verify the information on the
application form. The issuing authority is empowered to conduct any and all
investigations to verify the information on the application, including ordering
a computerized criminal history inquiry and/or a driver’s license history
inquiry on the applicant.
   (B)   Consideration. After verifying the information contained on the
license application, the issuing authority shall then route the application to
the City Fire Chief which shall review the site plan and determine if the
manner of storage, display or sales area of the licensed premises constitutes a
fire or safety hazard. In assessing the potential hazard, reference shall be
made to all applicable state and federal laws, rules and regulations, as well
as the administrative standards for the storage, display and sales of permitted
consumer fireworks established by the Fire Chief. If the Fire Chief finds no
such hazard with the proposed site plan, the issuing authority shall grant the
license in accordance with this chapter; provided, all other requirements of
this chapter are met. If an application is granted for a location where a
building is under construction or not ready for occupancy, the license shall
not be delivered to the licensee until a certificate of occupancy has been
issued for the licensed premises.
   (C)   Denial of application. If the application is denied, the issuing
authority shall notify the applicant of that determination in writing. The
notice shall be mailed by certified and regular mail to the applicant at the
address provided in the application and it shall inform the applicant of the
applicant’s right, within 20 days after the date of the notice to request an
appeal of the denial to the City Council. If an appeal to the City Council is
timely received by the city, the hearing before the City Council shall take
place within a reasonable period thereafter.
(1992 Code, § 420:25) (Ord. 1310, passed 4-1-2003; Ord. 1341, passed 5-4-2004)
§ 111.07 PERSONS AND LOCATIONS INELIGIBLE FOR A LICENSE.
   (A)   Persons ineligible. No original or renewal license under this chapter
shall be issued to an applicant if such applicant or any manager, proprietor or
agent in charge of the business to be licensed:
      (1)   Is not 18 years of age or older on the date the license application
is submitted to the issuing authority;
      (2)   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by Minn. Stat. § 364.03, Subd. 2, as it may be amended
from time to time, and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient
rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties of a purveyor of
permitted consumer fireworks as prescribed by Minn. Stat. § 364.03, Subd. 3, as
it may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   Is not of good moral character or repute;
      (4)   Has knowingly falsified or misrepresented information on the
license application;
      (5)   Is not the real party in interest in the business being licensed;
or
      (6)   Owes taxes, assessments, fines or other obligations to the United
States, state, county, school district or city that are due and delinquent.
   (B)   Locations ineligible. The following locations shall be ineligible for
a license under this chapter.
      (1)   Claims due. No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on
any property on which taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the
United States, state, county, school district or city are due, delinquent or
unpaid. In the event a suit has been commenced under Minn. Stat. §§ 278.01
through 278.14, as they may be amended from time to time, questioning the
amount or validity of taxes, the City Council may on application waive strict
compliance with this provision; no waiver may be granted, however, for taxes or
any portion thereof which remain unpaid for a period exceeding one year after
becoming due.
      (2)   Improper zoning. No license shall be granted if the property is not
properly zoned for the activity being licensed under this chapter, unless the
business is a legal, non-conforming use.
(1992 Code, § 420:30) (Ord. 1310, passed 4-1-2003; Ord. 1341, passed 5-4-2004)
§ 111.08 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   License display. A license issued under this chapter must be posted in
a conspicuous place in the premises for which it is used. The license issued is
only effective for the compact and contiguous space specified in the approved
license application.
   (B)   Licensed premises. A separate license is required for each place of
business.
   (C)   Change in ownership. Any change, directly or beneficially, in the
ownership of the licensed business shall require the application for a new
license and the new owner must satisfy all current eligibility requirements.
   (D)   Non-transferable. Each license under this chapter shall be issued to
the applicant only and shall not be transferable to any other person. No
licensee shall loan, sell, give or assign a license to another person.
   (E)   Location restrictions. A license under this chapter authorizes the
licensee to carry on its business only at the place of business designated on
the license. However, upon written request, the city may approve an off-site
locked and secured storage facility. Such a site must meet all city zoning
requirements and must have the written approval of the City Fire Chief.
Buildings used for the storage of consumer fireworks shall be non-residential,
shall not exceed one story and shall be without basements. The licensee shall
permit inspection of the facility in accordance with this chapter. Property
shall be stored in compliance with all provisions of this code of ordinances
and in compliance with the standards established by the City Fire Chief. The
licensee must either own the premises on which the business is conducted, and
any approved off-site storage facility, or have a lease on the business
premises which extends for more than one month. No retail business transactions
shall be conducted at this off-site storage site.
   (F)   Fire restrictions. Smoking, matches, open flames, spark-producing
devices and firearms shall not be permitted inside of the licensed premises or
an approved storage building or within 25 feet (7.6m) of stored consumer
fireworks. Signs that read “FIREWORKS - NO SMOKING” in letters not less than
four inches (101.6m) in height on a contrasting background shall be
conspicuously posted.
   (G)   Flammable liquids, gases. No consumer fireworks shall be stored within
50 feet of any dispensing unit for flammable liquids or gases.
   (H)   Firefighting equipment. Portable firefighting equipment shall be
provided in consumer fireworks storage areas as required by the authority
having jurisdiction.
   (I)   Emergency action plan. The operator of each consumer fireworks storage
building shall prepare a written emergency action plan for employees that
provides specific directions to be followed in the event of a fire. Employees
shall be trained to follow this plan.
(1992 Code, § 420:35) (Ord. 1310, passed 4-1-2003; Ord. 1341, passed 5-4-2004)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 OPERATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited transactions. No licensee, clerk, agent or employee thereof
shall sell, distribute or furnish any permitted consumer fireworks to a person
under the age of 18 years, any person who is obviously intoxicated, chemically
impaired or incompetent, or any person who fails to present competent age
identification in the form of a current, valid Minnesota driver’s license,
current, valid Minnesota identification card or current, valid photo driver’s
license or photo identification issued by another state or a province of
Canada. 
   (B)   Inspection of items. The licensee must, at all times during the term
of the license, allow the authorized agents of the City Police Department, the
City Fire Chief or issuing authority to enter the premises where the licensed
business is located, including all display areas, storage areas and all
approved off-site storage facilities, during normal business hours, or beyond
normal business hours where the inspector determines an emergency situation
exists, for the purpose of inspecting such premises and inspecting the items,
ware and merchandise therein for the purpose of verifying compliance with the
requirements of this chapter, and any other applicable state and federal
regulations. Upon request, the licensee must provide a test sample to the
inspector for the purpose of verifying the chemical content of the merchandise.
   (C)   Maintenance of order. A licensee under this chapter shall be
responsible for the conduct of the business being operated and shall maintain
conditions of order.
   (D)   Smoking prohibited; open fires. A licensee under this chapter must
strictly prohibit any cigarette, cigar, pipe smoking or any other open fires in
or around the licensed premises and conspicuously post and maintain appropriate
“NO SMOKING” signage throughout.
   (E)   Proper disposal of unsold permitted consumer fireworks. It shall be
the responsibility of the licensee to properly dispose of all unsold permitted
consumer fireworks. Any consequential cost to the city for disposal of these
goods shall be the ultimate responsibility of the licensee.
   (F)   Maintenance of sales and storage areas. Any significant deviation,
enlargement or alteration from the approved site plan for the sales display and
storage areas covered by the license must be pre-approved in writing by the
City Fire Chief.
   (G)   Confiscation and destruction of illegal fireworks.
      (1)   Any authorized agent of the Police Department or Fire Department
may seize, take, remove or cause to be removed all stocks of fireworks or other
combustibles offered or exposed for sale, stored or held in violation of this
chapter or applicable state or federal law.
      (2)   Any consequential cost to the city for disposal of these goods
shall be the ultimate responsibility of the licensee.
(1992 Code, § 420:40) (Ord. 1310, passed 4-1-2003; Ord. 1341, passed 5-4-2004)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 SANCTIONS FOR LICENSE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Suspension or revocation. The City Council may suspend or revoke a
license issued pursuant to this chapter for a violation of:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in a license
application or a renewal application;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the licensed occupation or business;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter or federal, state law or other
municipal ordinance;
      (4)   A licensee’s criminal conviction that is directly related to the
occupation or business licensed as defined by Minn. Stat. § 364.03, Subd. 2, as
it may be amended from time to time; provided that, the licensee cannot show
competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform
the duties of the licensed occupation or business as defined by Minn. Stat. §
364.03, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (5)   Conducting the licensed business or occupation in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the community;
and/or
      (6)   Any significant unauthorized deviation, enlargement or alteration
of the approved site plan for the storage and sales display areas of the
licensed premises shall, in and of itself, constitute a basis for license
revocation.
   (B)   Notice of hearing. A revocation or suspension by the City Council
shall be preceded by written notice to the licensee and a hearing. The notice
shall give at least eight-days’ notice of the time and place of the hearing and
shall state the nature of the charges against the licensee. The notice shall be
mailed by regular and certified mail to the licensee at the most recent address
listed on the license application.
(1992 Code, § 420:45) (Ord. 1310, passed 4-1-2003; Ord. 1341, passed 5-4-2004)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor.
(1992 Code, § 420:50) (Ord. 1310, passed 4-1-2003; Ord. 1341, passed 5-4-2004)
CHAPTER 112: ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Findings and purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Establishments subject to certain general provisions
   
112.04   Hours of operation
   
112.05   Adult cabarets
   
112.06   Effective date
License Requirements
   
112.20   Generally
   
112.21   Application
   
112.22   License fees
   
112.23   Granting a license
   
112.24   Persons ineligible for license
   
112.25   Places ineligible for license
   
112.26   Conditions of license
   
112.27   Right of appeal
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Studies conducted by the State Attorney General, the American Planning
Association and the Texas City Attorneys’ Association and cities such as St.
Paul, Minnesota; Indianapolis, Indiana; Hopkins, Minnesota; Ramsey, Minnesota;
Rochester, Minnesota, Phoenix, Arizona; Los Angeles, California; Seattle,
Washington; St. Croix County, Wisconsin; Adams County and the City of Denver,
Colorado have studied the impacts that adult establishments have in those
communities. These studies have concluded that adult establishments have
adverse impacts on the surrounding neighborhoods. These impacts include
increased crime rates, lower property values, increased transiency,
neighborhood blight and potential health risks.
   (B)   Based on these studies and findings, the City Council concludes:
      (1)   Adult establishments have adverse secondary impacts of the types
set forth above;
      (2)   The adverse impacts caused by adult establishments tend to diminish
if adult establishments are governed by geographic, licensing and health
requirements;
      (3)   It is not the intent of the City Council to prohibit adult
establishments from having a reasonable opportunity to locate in the city;
      (4)   Many members of the public perceive areas within which adult
establishments are located as less safe than other areas that do not have such
uses;
      (5)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators of
the adult establishment. A licensing procedure will place an incentive on the
operators to see that the adult establishment is run in a manner consistent
with the health, safety and welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as
the residents of the city. It is appropriate to require reasonable assurances
that the licensee is the actual operator of the adult establishment, fully in
possession and control of the premises and activities occurring therein;
      (6)   The fact that an applicant for an adult establishment license has
been convicted of a sexually-related crime is rationally related to the
legitimate concern that the applicant may engage in similar criminal conduct in
the future;
      (7)   The barring of individuals with sexually-related criminal
convictions from the management of adult establishments for a period of time
serves as a deterrent to future criminal conduct;
      (8)   The general health, safety and welfare of the community are
promoted by prohibiting nudity in adult establishments. This prohibition is
based on concerns of potential adverse effects such as prostitution, the
transmission of sexually-transmitted diseases, exposure to minors, obscenity
and unsanitary conditions in public places;
      (9)   Cities in out-state Minnesota experience many of the same adverse
impacts of adult establishments that are present in larger metropolitan
communities; and
      (10)   The public health, safety, morals and general welfare will be
promoted by the city adopting regulations governing adult establishments.
(1992 Code, § 1095:05) (Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-
2011)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. Any business:
      (1)   That devotes a substantial or significant portion of its inventory,
stock-in-trade or publicly displayed merchandise or devotes a substantial or
significant portion of its floor area of the business (not including
storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements or any portion of the business
not open to the public) to, or derives a substantial or significant portion of
its gross revenues from items, merchandise, devices or other materials
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on material depicting, exposing,
describing, simulating, discussing or relating to specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   As defined in “adult use” below.
   ADULT USE. An adult use is any of the activities and businesses described
below.
      (1)   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business that
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or non-transparent, to the body of a patron when such person is nude.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment or business used for the barter,
rental or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audio tape, videotape, motion picture film, CDs, DVDs or other
electronic storage media that devotes a substantial or significant portion of
its inventory, stock-in-trade or publicly displayed merchandise, or devotes a
significant or substantial portion of its floor area (not including storerooms,
stock areas, bathrooms, basements or any portion of the business not open to
the public) to, or derives a substantial or significant portion of its gross
revenues from items, merchandise, devices or other material distinguished and
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A business or establishment that provides dancing or
other live entertainment to patrons if the dancing and live entertainment is
distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction of matter that seeks to evoke, arouse or excite the patrons’ sexual
or erotic feelings or desire.
      (4)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A business or establishment that
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion between an employee of the establishment and a customer, if such
service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (5)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A business or establishment that
provides the services of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion, if such service is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis
on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (6)   ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club that is distinguished
and characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
      (7)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel where material is presented
that is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
      (8)   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
that provides the services of massage, if such service is distinguished and
characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
      (9)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A theater that as a prevailing
practice presents movies distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas”.
      (10)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. A business or establishment that provides
customers figure models who are so provided with the intent of providing sexual
stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and who engage in
“specified sexual activities” or display “specified anatomical areas” while
being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched drawn, sculptured, photographed
or otherwise depicted by such customers.
      (11)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas”.
      (12)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. Any business that:
         (a)   Devotes a substantial or significant portion of its inventory,
stock-in-trade or publicly displayed merchandise to;
         (b)   Devotes a substantial of significant portion of its floor area
of the business (not including store rooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements
or any portion of the business not open to the public) to; and/or
         (c)   Derives a substantial or significant portion of its gross
revenue from sales of, materials or devices that stimulate human genitals, are
designed for sexual stimulation, or that depict or relate to “specified
anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”.
      (13)   ADULT SAUNA. A sauna which provides a steam bath or heat bathing
room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam
or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided
by the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (14)   ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if such building or portion of a
building restricts minors by reason of age and if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis
on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (15)   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT/SELF-DESIGNATED. Any establishment that:
         (a)   Designates all or a portion of its premises for access or use
only by adults, or has a policy of excluding minors from its premises or from a
portion of its premises; and
         (b)   Advertises or holds itself out to the public in any forum so as
to convey the impression that the services, entertainment, matter or goods
available at the premises or at the portion of the premises designated for
adults only are characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   NUDE or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area,
vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a fully opaque covering; the
showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part
of the nipple; the exposure of any device, costume or covering which gives the
appearance of or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, natal cleft, perineum anal
region or pubic hair region; or the exposure of any device worn as a cover over
the nipples and/or areola of the female breast, which device simulates and
gives the realistic appearance of nipples and/or areola; and/or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   Sex acts, normal or perverted/actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy;
      (2)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus or female breast(s); or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) and (2) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL OR SIGNIFICANT PORTION. Greater than 10%.
(1992 Code, § 1095:10) (Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-
2011)
§ 112.03 ESTABLISHMENTS SUBJECT TO CERTAIN GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Adult establishments are subject to the following general provisions.
   (A)   Adult uses are permitted uses in the I-2 (heavy industrial) zone
subject to the conditions in this section.
   (B)   Adult establishments must be located at least 1,000 feet, as measured
in a straight line, from the main public entrance of the adult establishment to
the nearest boundary line of the following:
      (1)   Residentially zoned or used property;
      (2)   A licensed day-care center;
      (3)   Any school;
      (4)   Any church;
      (5)   Any hotel or motel;
      (6)   Any public park;
      (7)   Any cemetery;
      (8)   Any hospital;
      (9)   Any nursing home;
      (10)   Any youth facility; and/or
      (11)   Another adult establishment.
   (C)   Signage for adult establishments must comply with all applicable
provisions in
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Each adult establishment is a separate use and no two adult
establishments may be located in the same building or upon the same parcel of
land.
   (E)   Adult establishments are prohibited in establishments where liquor is
served.
   (F)   Adult establishments are prohibited at any place or event where minors
are permitted.
   (G)   Any existing business that meets the definition of “adult
establishment” or “adult use” as provided in §
112.02 of this chapter on the effective date of this chapter and that does not
conform to the chapter will be deemed a non-conforming use under Ord. 827.
(1992 Code, § 1095:15) (Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-
2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   An adult establishment may not be open between the hours of 12:00 a.m.
(midnight) and 9:00 a.m.
(1992 Code, § 1095:20) (Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-
2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 ADULT CABARETS.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity may
advertise, or cause to be advertised, an adult cabaret without a valid adult
establishment license.
   (B)   An adult cabaret licensee must maintain and retain for a period of two
years the names, addresses and ages of all persons engaged, hired or employed
as dancers or performers by the licensee.
   (C)   An adult cabaret is prohibited in establishments where liquor is
served.
   (D)   No owner, operator or manager of an adult cabaret may permit or allow
any dancer or other live entertainer to perform nude.
   (E)   No dancer, live entertainer, performer, patron or other person may be
nude in an adult cabaret.
   (F)   No dancer, live entertainer or performer may be under 18 years old.
   (G)   All dancing must occur on a platform intended for that purpose which
is raised at least two feet from the level of the floor.
   (H)   No dancer or performer may perform or dance closer than ten feet to
any patron.
   (I)   No dancer or performer may fondle or caress any patron and no patron
shall fondle or caress any dancer or performer.
   (J)   No patron may directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or
performer.
   (K)   No dancer or performer may solicit any pay or gratuity from any
patron.
   (L)   No person under the age of 18 years may be admitted to an adult
cabaret.
(1992 Code, § 1095:25) (Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-
2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective 8-1-2011.
(Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-2011)
LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 112.20 GENERALLY.
   No person may own or operate an adult establishment without having first
secured a license.
(1992 Code, § 1095:30) (Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-
2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 APPLICATION.
   The application for an adult establishment license must be submitted on a
form provided by the city and shall include:
   (A)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, residence, phone number
and birth date of the applicant; if the applicant is a partnership, the name,
residence, phone number and birth date of each general and limited partner; if
the applicant is a corporation, the names, residences, phone numbers and birth
dates of all officers, directors and controlling stockholders for the business;
   (B)   The name, address, phone number and birth date of the operator and
manager of such operation, if different from the owners;
   (C)   The address and legal description of the premises where the adult
establishment is to be located;
   (D)   A statement detailing any gross misdemeanor or felony convictions
relating to sex offenses, obscenity or the operation of an adult establishment
or adult business by the applicant, operator or manager and whether or not the
applicant, operator or manager has ever applied for or held a license to
operate a similar type of business in other communities. In the case of a
corporation, a statement detailing any gross misdemeanor or felony convictions
of the officers, directors or controlling stockholders for the business and
whether or not those individuals have ever applied for or held a license to
operate a similar type of business in other communities;
   (E)   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
   (F)   The hours of operation;
   (G)   The provisions made to restrict access by minors;
   (H)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations and
activities; and
   (I)   The license will expire on December 31 of the year in which it is
issued.
(1992 Code, § 1095:30) (Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-
2011)
§ 112.22 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Each application for a license must be submitted to the City
Administrator and accompanied by payment in full of the required fee for the
license. Upon rejection of any application for a license, the city will refund
the license fee.
   (B)   All licenses expire on December 31 in each year. Each license will be
issued for a period of one year; except that, if a portion of the license year
has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be issued for the
remainder of the year for a prorated fee. In computing such fee, any unexpired
fraction of a month will be counted as one month.
   (C)   The annual fee for an adult establishment license is $1,000.
   (D)   No part of the fee paid for any license issued under this section will
be refunded, except in the following instances upon application to the City
Administrator within 30 days from the happening of the event. The city will
refund a pro rata portion of the fee for the unexpired period of the license,
computed on a monthly basis, when operation of the licensed business ceases no
less than one month before expiration of the license because of:
      (1)   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
      (2)   The licensee’s disabling illness;
      (3)   The licensee’s death; and
      (4)   A change in the legal status making it unlawful for the licensed
business to continue.
(1992 Code, § 1095:30) (Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-
2011)
§ 112.23 GRANTING A LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police will investigate all facts set out in the
application within 30 days after the City Administrator receives that
application.
      (2)   If after such investigation, it appears that the applicant and the
place proposed for the business are eligible for a license, then the City
Council will consider the application. The City Council will grant or deny the
application no later than 30 days after the investigation by the Police Chief
is completed. If the City Council fails to act on the application within this
time period, the application is automatically approved.
   (B)   Each license is issued to the applicant only and is not transferable
to another holder. Each license is issued only for the premises described in
the application. No license may be transferred to another premises without the
approval of the City Council. If the licensee is a partnership or corporation,
a change in the identity of any of the principals of the partnership or
corporation will be deemed a transfer of the license.
(1992 Code, § 1095:30) (Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-
2011)
§ 112.24 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license will be granted to or held by any person:
   (A)   Under 18 years of age;
   (B)   Who is delinquent in payments to the city, county, state or federal
government of taxes, assessments, fees, fines, penalties, charges or liens for
municipal services and utilities assessed against or imposed upon the
applicant;
   (C)   Who has been convicted of a gross misdemeanor within two years
preceding the application or convicted of a felony within five years preceding
the application of any federal, state or local law relating to sex offenses,
obscenity offenses or adult establishments, unless the applicant can show
competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation under Minn. Stat. § 364.05,
Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
   (D)   Who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the license
is to be issued or has been issued;
   (E)   Who has been denied a license by the city or any other Minnesota
municipal corporation to operate an adult establishment, or such license has
been suspended or revoked within the preceding 12 months;
   (F)   Who has not paid the license and investigative fees required by this
section;
   (G)   Who has failed to supply all of the information requested on the
license application;
   (H)   Who gives false or fraudulent information on the license application;
and/or
   (I)   Who has been convicted of a violation of this section, or whose
license hereunder has been revoked for cause, until one year has elapsed after
such conviction or revocation.
(1992 Code, § 1095:30) (Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-
2011)
§ 112.25 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No license will be granted for any adult establishment not in
compliance with the city’s zoning regulations or Fire, Building and Health and
Safety Codes and all provisions of federal, state and municipal law;
   (B)   Establishments holding an intoxicating liquor, beer or wine license;
and
   (C)   No license will be granted for operation of an adult establishment on
any premises upon which taxes, assessments, liens or other financial claims of
the city are owed by the applicant and are delinquent and unpaid.
(1992 Code, § 1095:30) (Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-
2011)
§ 112.26 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All licensed premises must have the license posted in a conspicuous
place at all times.
   (B)   No minor may be permitted on the licensed premises.
   (C)   Any designated inspection officer of the city has the right to enter,
inspect and search the premises of a licensee during business hours.
   (D)   (1)   The licensee must keep itemized written records of all
transactions involving the sale or rental of all items or merchandise for at
least one year after the transaction.
      (2)   At a minimum, those records must describe the date of the
transaction, a description of the transaction, the purchase price or rental
price and a detailed description of the item or merchandise that is being
purchased or rented.
      (3)   These written records must be provided to the city upon request.
   (E)   The licensee must cover or otherwise arrange all windows, doors and
apertures to prevent any person outside the licensed premises from viewing any
items or merchandise inside the premises depicting specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
(1992 Code, § 1095:30) (Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-
2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.27 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any applicant whose application for an adult establishment license is
denied, or any licensee whose license is not renewed, revoked or suspended, may
appeal such denial, non-renewal revocation or suspension to a court of
competent jurisdiction within 30 days after the denial, revocation or
suspension of such license.
   (B)   In the case of a non-renewal, suspension or revocation, the non-
renewal, suspension or revocation is stayed until the conclusion of such
action.
   (C)   In the case of a denial, the applicant may not commence doing business
unless the action is concluded in its favor.
(1992 Code, § 1095:30) (Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-
2011)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, will be punished not more than the maximum
penalty of a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is a basis for the suspension or
revocation of any license granted hereunder. In the event that the City Council
proposes to revoke or suspend the license, the licensee will be notified in
writing of the basis for such proposed revocation or suspension. The City
Council will hold a hearing for the purpose of determining whether to revoke or
suspend the license, which will be within 45 days of the date of the notice.
The City Council determine whether to suspend or revoke the license within 45
days after the close of the hearing and will notify the licensee of its
decision within that 45-day period.
(1992 Code, § 1095:30) (Ord. 1173, passed 11-3-1997; Ord. 1476, passed 8-1-
2011)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
3.2% Malt Liquor
   
113.001   State law adopted
   
113.002   License required
   
113.003   Application for license
   
113.004   Fees established; Council action; term
   
113.005   Applicant owner
   
113.006   Transferability
   
113.007   Club beer sales
   
113.008   Sales to minors prohibited
   
113.009   Hours of sales
   
113.010   Definition
   
113.011   Revocation
   
113.012   “Short-term” licenses; certain restrictions
   
113.013   Carrying or consuming 3.2% malt liquor on streets, parking lots
Wine
   
113.025   State law adopted
   
113.026   License required
   
113.027   Application for license
   
113.028   License fees
   
113.029   Granting of licenses
   
113.030   Persons ineligible for license
   
113.031   Places ineligible for license
   
113.032   Conditions of license
   
113.033   Suspension or revocation
   
113.034   Carrying or consuming wine on streets, parking lots
   
113.035   Sale of 3.2% malt liquor
“On-Sale” Liquor
   
113.050   State law adopted
   
113.051   Definitions
   
113.052   License procedures
   
113.053   Application for license
   
113.054   License fees
   
113.055   Granting licenses
   
113.056   License conditions
   
113.057   Prohibited acts
   
113.058   Purchase and consumption restrictions
   
113.059   Suspension and revocation
Brew Pubs; Brewer Taproom
   
113.060   State law adopted
   
113.061   Definitions
   
113.062   License required
   
113.063   Licenses authorized
   
113.064   Application for license
   
113.065   License fees
“Off-Sale” Liquor
   
113.070   State law adopted
   
113.071   Definitions
   
113.072   License required
   
113.073   “Off-sale” licenses
   
113.074   Application for license
   
113.075   License fees
   
113.076   Granting licenses
   
113.077   Persons ineligible for license
   
113.078   Places ineligible for license
   
113.079   License conditions
   
113.080   Purchase and consumption restrictions
   
113.081   Suspension and revocation
Bottle Clubs
   
113.095   Definition
   
113.096   Permit and fees
   
113.097   Hours of sale
   
113.098   Inspections
   
113.099   Licensee requirements
   
113.100   Council vote to grant license
   
113.101   Suspension and revocation
Special “On-Sale” Club Licenses; Intoxicating Liquor
   
113.115   Special “on-sale” club licenses
   
113.116   Application for license
   
113.117   License fees
   
113.118   Term
   
113.119   Granting license
   
113.120   Delinquent taxes and charges
   
113.121   License conditions
   
113.122   Carrying or consuming intoxicating liquor on streets, parking lots
   
113.123   Suspension and revocation
 
   
113.999   Penalty
3.2% MALT LIQUOR
§ 113.001 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of Minn. Stat. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to
time, relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption, sales,
conditions of bonds of licensees, hours of sale and all other matters
pertaining to the retail sale, distribution and consumption of intoxicating
liquor insofar as they are applicable to 3.2% malt liquor licenses authorizing
the sale of 3.2% malt liquor, are adopted and made a part of this subchapter as
if set out in full.
(1992 Code, § 800:00) (Ord. 727, passed 11-20-1979)
§ 113.002 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell 3.2% malt liquors at
wholesale or retail within the corporate limits of the city, except when
licensed as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   There shall be three types of licenses issued for the sale of 3.2%
malt liquors, classified and defined as follows:
      (1)   “On-sale” licenses, which shall permit the licensee to sell 3.2%
malt liquors for consumption on the licensed premises only, and this class of
licenses shall be granted only to drug stores, restaurants, hotels, bona fide
clubs and establishments for the sale of non-intoxicating malt beverages,
cigars, cigarettes, all forms of tobacco, beverages and soft drinks at retail;
      (2)   “Off-sale” licenses, which shall permit the licensee to sell 3.2%
malt liquors in original packages for consumption off the premises only; and
      (3)   “Short-term” licenses, which shall not exceed ten days in duration
for sale and consumption of 3.2% malt liquors on licensed premises only as
provided hereinafter in §
113.012 of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 801:00) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.003 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All persons desiring either of the licenses, as hereinbefore
described, shall make a written application therefor to the Council and file
the same in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. The application shall set forth
the name of the applicant, age and place of residence and the kind of business
in which the applicant is engaged, including address of same. It shall also set
forth the location including street number and floor of the place at which the
applicant proposes to carry on said business. The application shall also state
that the applicant is a citizen of the United States and a person of good moral
character and repute, and shall be made out on such form, and shall contain
such other information as required by the Council. All applicants for “on-sale”
or “off-sale” 3.2% malt liquor license shall, by affidavit, establish that they
do, or do not, fall within a volume class which must provide proof of financial
responsibility.
   (B)   “Short-term” license applicants and “on-sale” applicants with sales of
$10,000 or more for the preceding year and “off-sale” applicants with sales of
$20,000 or more for the preceding year shall provide proof of financial
responsibility as follows:
      (1)   A certificate that there is in effect an insurance policy or pool
providing the following minimum coverages:
         (a)   Fifty thousand dollars because of bodily injury to any one
person in any one occurrence and, subject to the limit for one person, in the
amount of $100,000 because of bodily injury to two or more persons in any one
occurrence, and in the amount of $10,000 because of injury to or destruction of
property of others in any one occurrence; and
         (b)   Fifty thousand dollars for loss of means of support of any one
person in any one occurrence and, subject to the limit for one person, $100,000
for loss of means of support of two or more persons in any one occurrence.
      (2)   A bond of a surety company with minimum coverages as provided in
division (B)(1) above; or
      (3)   A certificate of the State Treasurer that the licensee has
deposited with him or her $100,000 in cash or securities which may legally be
purchased by savings banks or for trust funds having a market value of
$100,000.
(1992 Code, § 801:05)
§ 113.004 FEES ESTABLISHED; COUNCIL ACTION; TERM.
   (A)   At the time of filing the said application, the applicant shall
deposit with the City Clerk-Treasurer the required license fee as duly set by
the Council from time to time for an “on-sale” license or for an “off-sale”
license or for a “short-term” “on-sale” license. If received at least one week
before, the Clerk-Treasurer shall present same to the Council for its
consideration at its next regular meeting, and the Council shall hear all
persons interested in the granting of said application and consider the
appropriateness of the location applied for in said application.
   (B)   The Council shall have the right to reject any application for
license.
   (C)   No reduction in the amount of the license fees shall be made for
license issued for only part of a year, except as otherwise provided in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Each license granted and issued under the provisions of this
subchapter shall expire on June 30 following the date of its issuance;
provided, however, that, “short-term” licenses may be granted for a period of
not exceeding ten days in consideration of a license fee as provided in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
(1992 Code, § 801:10)
§ 113.005 APPLICANT OWNER.
   No “on-sale” license shall be issued to any applicant unless he or she be
the actual owner or proprietor of the place at which he or she intends to sell
such 3.2% malt liquor.
(1992 Code, § 801:15)
§ 113.006 TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued hereunder shall be transferable.
(1992 Code, § 801:20)
§ 113.007 CLUB BEER SALES.
   Clubs shall not sell such liquor, except to members and guests.
(1992 Code, § 801:25)
§ 113.008 SALES TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, or his or her agents, servants or
employees, to sell such 3.2% malt liquors to any person under the age of 21
years.
(1992 Code, § 801:30) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.009 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No sale of 3.2% malt liquor shall be made on any Sunday between the
hour of 1:00 a.m. and the hour of 12:00 noon, nor after the hour of 8:00 p.m.
on any December 24.
   (B)   No sale of 3.2% malt liquor shall be made between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any weekday, Monday through Saturday, both inclusive.
(1992 Code, § 801:35) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.010 DEFINITION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all 3.2% malt liquors, as defined in state
statutes, as follows: “3.2% malt liquor is any malt liquor containing not less
than one-half (1/2) of one (1) percent alcohol by volume nor more than 3.2
percent alcohol by weight.”
(1992 Code, § 801:40)
§ 113.011 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council may either suspend, for not to exceed 60 days, or revoke
any license upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any
applicable statute, regulation or ordinance relating to intoxicating liquor. No
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 14.58, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 801:45)
   (B)   Drunkenness on the premises shall be considered evidence of illegal
sale on such premises and shall be good reason for revoking the license.
(1992 Code, § 801:50)
§ 113.012 “SHORT-TERM” LICENSES; CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   “Short-term” licenses may be issued to charitable, religious,
fraternal, educational or non-profit organizations for a specific location and
time under the following restrictions:
      (1)   If the licensed premises is a city park, county park, school ground
or other public place, written permission of the governing body having
jurisdiction over such premises must be presented to the Council together with
the application;
      (2)   Access to the premises so licensed for sale or consumption must be
restricted by fence, barrier, wall or other means to restrict ingress and
egress and the entrance shall be no greater than four feet in width and the
licensee shall have one member or designate at the entrance to verify ages of
persons entering the premises;
      (3)   The applicant shall furnish the city with a hold harmless agreement
and such security as the Council shall prescribe; and
      (4)   A “short-term” license may be issued to a charitable, religious,
fraternal, educational or non-profit organization that is lessee or owner of an
outdoor stadium for shows, exhibitions, athletic events, concerts and similar
activities, which has a seating capacity of at least 2,000 people.
   (B)   Each such applicant shall present to the City Clerk-Treasurer before
license is issued, certificate of liquor liability insurance, by a company
authorized to write such insurance in the state, in at least the following
amounts: $250,000 each person/$500,000 each occurrence.
   (C)   3.2% malt liquor sold under this special license shall not be
delivered in the original container, but shall be poured up into open cups or
containers for consumption.
   (D)   No individual shall be allowed to enter or leave the stadium with
unconsumed 3.2% malt liquor in possession.
   (E)   Fee for special “short-term” license shall be as established by the
City Council from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 801:55) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.013 CARRYING OR CONSUMING 3.2% MALT LIQUOR ON STREETS, PARKING LOTS.
   No person may carry or transport 3.2% malt liquor in a glass or other open
container on a public sidewalk, street, alley or parking lot in the city, or
consume it thereon.
(1992 Code, § 801:60) Penalty, see §
113.999
WINE
§ 113.025 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of Minn. Stat. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to
time, relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption, sales,
conditions of bonds of licensees, hours of sale and all other matters
pertaining to the retail sale, distribution and consumption of intoxicating
liquor insofar as they are applicable to wine licenses authorizing the sale of
wine not exceeding 14% alcohol by volume for consumption on the licensed
premises only, in conjunction with the sale of food, are adopted and made a
part of this subchapter as if set out in full.
(1992 Code, § 803:00) (Ord. 726, passed 11-20-1979)
§ 113.026 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a wholesaler or manufacturer to the extent authorized
under state license, shall directly or indirectly deal in, sell or keep for
sale in the city any wine not exceeding 14% alcohol by volume without an “on-
sale” wine license. An “on-sale” wine license authorizes the sale of wine not
exceeding 14% alcohol by volume, for consumption on the licensed premises only,
in conjunction with the sale of food. An “on-sale” wine license may be issued
only to a restaurant having facilities for seating not fewer than 25 guests at
one time. For purposes of this section, a RESTAURANT means an establishment,
under the control of a single proprietor or manager, having appropriate
facilities for serving meals, and where, in consideration of payment therefor,
meals are regularly served at tables to the general public, and which employs
an adequate staff to provide the usual and suitable service to its guests.
(1992 Code, § 804:00)
§ 113.027 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for “on-sale” wine license shall state the
name of the applicant, his or her age, representations as to his or her
character, with such references as the Council may require, his or her
citizenship, the restaurant in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, whether the applicant is owner and operator of the
restaurant, how long he or she has been in the restaurant business at that
place and such other information as the Council may require from time to time.
In addition to containing such information, the application shall be in the
form prescribed by the Liquor Control Director and shall be verified and filed
with the City Clerk-Treasurer. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Insurance. Any applicants whose wine sales exceed $10,000 per year
shall also provide proof of financial responsibility as follows:
      (1)   A certificate that there is in effect an insurance policy or pool
providing the following minimum coverages:
         (a)   Fifty thousand dollars because of bodily injury to any one
person in any one occurrence and, subject to the limit for one person, in the
amount of $100,000 because of bodily injury to two or more persons in any one
occurrence, and in the amount of $10,000 because of injury to or destruction of
property of others in any one occurrence; and
         (b)   Fifty thousand dollars for loss of means of support of any one
person in any one occurrence and, subject to the limit for one person, $100,000
for loss of means of support of two or more persons in any one occurrence.
      (2)   A bond of a surety company with minimum coverages as provided in
division (B)(1) above; or
      (3)   A certificate of the State Treasurer that the licensee has
deposited with him or her $100,000 in cash or securities which may legally be
purchased by savings banks or for trust funds having a market value of
$100,000.
(1992 Code, § 804:05) (Ord. 1236, passed 6-20-2000)
§ 113.028 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Amount. The annual fee for a wine license shall be in such amount as
the Council may prescribe from time to time.
   (B)   Payment. Each application for a wine license shall be accompanied by a
receipt from the City Clerk-Treasurer for payment in full of the license fee.
All fees shall be paid into the General Fund. If an application for a license
is rejected, the Clerk-Treasurer shall refund the amount paid.
   (C)   Term; pro rata fee. Each license shall be issued for a period of one
year; except that, if the application is made during the license year, a
license may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee of 10%
of the annual fee per month for each unexpired month, any fraction of a month
being counted as one month. Every license shall expire on June 30.
   (D)   Refunds. No refund of any fee shall be made, except as authorized by
statute.
(1992 Code, § 804:10)
§ 113.029 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Investigation and issuance. The City Council shall investigate all
facts set out in the application. Opportunity shall be given to any person to
be heard for or against the granting of the license. After the investigation
and hearing, the Council shall, in its discretion, grant or refuse the
application. No wine license shall become effective until it, together with the
security furnished by the applicant, has been approved by the State Liquor
Control Director.
   (B)   Person and premises licensed; transfer. Each license shall be issued
only to the applicant and for the premises described in the application. No
license may be transferred to another person or place without City Council
approval. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed a transfer of
the license and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval is a ground
for revocation of the license.
   (C)   Investigation fee. At the time of initial application for a wine
license, or upon application for a transfer of an existing license, the
applicant shall pay to the city an investigation fee of an amount to be set by
the Council from time to time, which is not refundable in whole or in part. An
investigation fee is not required for renewals for the same applicant unless an
investigation is deemed necessary by the City Council.
(1992 Code, § 804:15)
§ 113.030 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No wine license shall be granted to any person made ineligible for such a
license by state law.
(1992 Code, § 804:20)
§ 113.031 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   General prohibition. No wine license shall be issued for any
restaurant ineligible for such a license under state law.
   (B)   Delinquent taxes and charges. No license shall be granted for
operation on any premises on which taxes, assessments or other financial claims
of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
(1992 Code, § 804:25)
§ 113.032 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   In general. Every license is subject to the conditions in divisions
(B) through (F) below and all other provisions of this subchapter and of any
other applicable section of this code, state law or regulation.
   (B)   Hours of sale. No sale of wine shall be made on any Sunday between the
hour of 1:00 a.m. and the hour of 12:00 noon, nor after the hour of 8:00 p.m.
on any December 24. No sale of wine shall be made between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any weekday, Monday through Saturday, both inclusive.
   (C)   Licensee’s responsibility. Every licensee is responsible for the
conduct of his or her place of business and the conditions of sobriety and
order in it. The act of any employee on the licensed premises authorized to
sell intoxicating liquor there is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and
the licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this code of
ordinances and the law equally with the employee. It shall be unlawful for any
person, or his or her agents, servants or employees, to sell wine to any person
under the age of 21 years.
   (D)   Inspections. Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, Health
Officer or properly designated officer or employee of the city to enter,
inspect and search the premises of the licensee during business hours without a
warrant.
   (E)   Display during prohibited hours. No licensee shall display wine to the
public during hours when the sale of wine is prohibited.
   (F)   Federal stamps. No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale liquor
dealers special tax stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
(1992 Code, § 804:30) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.033 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council may either suspend, for not to exceed 60 days, or revoke
any “on-sale” wine license upon a finding that the licensee has failed to
comply with any applicable statute, regulation or ordinance relating to
intoxicating liquor.
   (B)   No suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has
been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 14.58, as
it may be amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 804:35)
§ 113.034 CARRYING OR CONSUMING WINE ON STREETS, PARKING LOTS.
   No person may carry or transport wine in a glass or other open container on
a public sidewalk, street, alley or parking lot in the city, or consume it
thereon.
(1992 Code, § 804:40) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.035 SALE OF 3.2% MALT LIQUORS.
   The holder of an “on-sale” wine license who is also licensed to sell 3.2%
malt liquors at “on-sale” and whose gross receipts are at least 60%
attributable to the sale of food may sell intoxicating malt liquors at “on-
sale” without an additional license.
(1992 Code, § 804:45) (Ord. passed 8-19-1997)
“ON-SALE” LIQUOR
§ 113.050 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of Minn. Stat. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to
time, relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption, sales,
conditions of bonds of licensees, hours of sale and all other matters
pertaining to the retail sale, distribution and consumption of intoxicating
liquor, are adopted and made a part of this subchapter as if set out in full.
(1992 Code, § 805:00) (Ord. 700, passed 10-18-1978)
§ 113.051 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the words, combinations of
words, terms and phrases, as used in this subchapter shall have the meanings
set forth herein and Minn. Stat. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(1992 Code, § 806:00)
§ 113.052 LICENSE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General requirement. No person, except a wholesaler or manufacturer to
the extent authorized under state license, shall directly or indirectly deal
in, sell or keep for sale in the city any intoxicating liquor without a license
to do so as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   “On-sale” licenses. “On-sale” licenses shall be issued only to hotels,
clubs, restaurants and exclusive liquor stores and shall permit “on-sale” of
liquor only.
   (C)   Number of “on-sale” licenses. The authorized number of “on-sale”
licenses for issuance shall be 20.
   (D)   Special licenses for Sunday sales.
      (1)   A special license authorizing sales on Sunday in conjunction with
the sale of food may be issued to any restaurant, club, bowling center or hotel
with a seating capacity for at least 30 persons and which holds an “on-sale”
intoxicating liquor license.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (D), RESTAURANT is defined as an
establishment as defined in Minn. Stat. § 157.15, Subd. 12, as it may be
amended from time to time, and shall have a license issued by the State Health
Department as required by Minn. Stat. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time
to time, and meet the definition of either “limited food menu selection”,
“small establishment”, “medium establishment” or “large establishment”, as
defined in Minn. Stat. § 157.16, Subd. 3(d), as it may be amended from time to
time. An applicant for a special license under this division (D), and a
licensee to whom a special Sunday license has been issued, shall file with the
city a duplicate of the food license at the time of the initial application or
upon renewal.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (D), THE SALE OF FOOD means the
licensee shall serve food not less than five days weekly, including Sundays.
      (4)   All personnel, preparation areas, service areas and equipment must
comply with all applicable laws and ordinances.
      (5)   Food service must be maintained from time of opening until 9:00
p.m.
      (6)   A licensee holding a special license under this division (D) is
authorized to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises in
conjunction with the sale of food between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on Sundays
and 1:00 a.m. on Mondays; provided that, the licensee is in conformance with
the State Clean Air Act, being Minn. Stat. §§ 144.411 through 144.417.
      (7)   The establishment must be under the supervision and control of a
single proprietor or manager or supervisory person who is available on the
premises to the public and city officials during hours of operation.
      (8)   For private parties with the service of hors d’oeuvres, the
licensee need not comply with division (D)(7) above, but must comply with the
following:
         (a)   All private parties must be held in an enclosed room, rooms or
area separated or restricted from public use, said area to be monitored; and
         (b)   Admission must be monitored by an employee of the licensee and
be limited to invited guests only.
      (9)   (a)   For purposes of this division (D), a HOTEL is defined as an
establishment where food and lodging are regularly furnished to transients and
which has:
            1.   A resident proprietor or manager;
            2.   A dining room serving the general public at tables and having
facilities for seating at least 30 guests at one time; and
            3.   Guest rooms in the following minimum numbers: ten.
         (b)   A hotel is subject to the requirements of a restaurant provided
under this division (D).
      (10)   For purposes of this division (D), a CLUB is defined as an
incorporated organization organized under the laws of the state for civic,
fraternal, social or business purposes, for intellectual improvement or for the
promotion of sports, or a congressionally chartered veterans’ organization,
which:
         (a)   Has more than 50 members;
         (b)   Has owned or rented a building or space in a building for more
than one year that is suitable and adequate for the accommodation of its
members; and
         (c)   Is directed by a board of directors, executive committee or
other similar body chosen by the members at a meeting held for that purpose. No
member, officer, agent or employee shall receive any profit from the
distribution or sale of beverages to the members of the club, or their guests,
beyond a reasonable salary or wages fixed and voted each year by the governing
body.
      (11)   Clubs may sell liquor on Sundays only in conjunction with the
sales of food.
   (E)   Temporary licenses.
      (1)   A temporary license for a period not to exceed three days, may be
granted to a club or charitable, religious or other non-profit organization in
existence for at least three years, in connection with a social event within
the city, sponsored by the applying organization.
      (2)   Qualified organizations applying for a temporary license must
complete the prescribed application and submit it with the license fee and a
certificate of liquor liability insurance in amounts equal to those prescribed
in §
113.053(B) of this chapter or, in the alternative, a contract with a previously
licensed “on-sale”, intoxicating liquor licensee, licensed to sell to the
general public, to cater and provide the serving of intoxicating liquors. The
catering licensee must present a certificate extending the liquor liability
insurance to the premises in which the social event is being held.
      (3)   No more than three such temporary licenses will be allowed an
organization in the course of any 12-month span.
      (4)   Each such application must be approved by the State Commissioner of
Public Safety before becoming effective.
(1992 Code, § 806:05) (Ord. 1200, passed 1-5-1999; Ord. 1297, passed 11-4-2002;
Ord. 1619, passed 5- 18-2021)
§ 113.053 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license to sell liquor shall state the
name of the applicant, his or her age, representation as to his or her
character, with such references as the Council may request, his or her
citizenship, the type of license applied for, the business in connection with
which the proposed license will operate and its location, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long he or she has been in that
business at that place, and such other information as the Council may request
from time to time. In addition to containing such information, the application
shall be in the form prescribed by the Liquor Control Director and shall be
verified and filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer. No person shall make a false
statement in an application. A copy of each application shall be forwarded to
the Chief of Police and he or she shall return a report of his or her
objections, if any, to issuance of the license as requested.
   (B)   Insurance. Each applicant for a license shall provide, with the
application, proof of financial responsibility as follows:
      (1)   A certificate that there is in effect an insurance policy or pool
providing the following minimum coverages:
         (a)   Fifty thousand dollars because of bodily injury to any one
person in any one occurrence, and, subject to the limit for one person, in the
amount of $100,000 because of bodily injury to two or more persons in any one
occurrence, and in the amount of $10,000 because of injury to or destruction of
property of others in any one occurrence; and
         (b)   Fifty thousand dollars for loss of means of support of any one
person in any one occurrence, and, subject to the limit for one person,
$100,000 for loss of means of support of two or more persons in any one
occurrence.
      (2)   A bond of a surety company, with minimum coverages as provided in
division (B)(1) above; or
      (3)   A certificate of the State Treasurer that the licensee has
deposited with him or her $100,000 in cash or securities which may legally be
purchased by savings banks or for trust funds having a market value of
$100,000.
   (C)   Approval of security. The security offered under division (B) above
shall be approved by the City Council. Surety bonds shall be approved as to
form by the City Attorney. Operation of a licensed business without having on
file with the city at all times effective security, as required in division (B)
above, is cause for revocation of the license.
(1992 Code, § 806:10) (Ord. 1236, passed 6-20-2000)
§ 113.054 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Fees. The annual fee for a liquor license for an “on-sale” license,
and for a special license for Sunday sales and for dance permit shall be in the
amounts duly established from time to time by the City Council.
   (B)   Payment. Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a
receipt from the City Clerk- Treasurer for payment of the prescribed license
fee. All fees shall be paid into the General Fund. If an application for a
license is rejected, the Clerk-Treasurer shall refund the amount paid.
   (C)   Term; pro rata fee. Each license shall be issued for a period of one
year; except that, if an initial application is made during the license year, a
license may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee of $200
per month, plus an administrative fee of $100; any fraction of a month is
counted as one month. Every license shall expire on June 30.
   (D)   Refunds. Refunds of license fees may be made to licensees of record,
according to the following formula: of the amount paid in, $100 shall be
retained to cover the costs of administration and processing. The balance shall
be refunded at the rate of $200 per each full month that the license is not
used. At the time of surrender of the license, the residual balance may be
remitted to the surrendering licensee upon application to the City Clerk-
Treasurer and approval by the City Council.
   (E)   Investigation fee. At the time of initial application for an “on-sale”
license or special license for Sunday sales, or upon application for a transfer
of an existing license, the applicant shall pay to the city an investigation
fee of an amount to be set by the Council from time to time, which is not
refundable in whole or in part. An investigation fee is not required for
renewals for the same applicant unless an investigation is deemed necessary by
the Council.
(1992 Code, § 806:15) (Ord. 1100, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 113.055 GRANTING LICENSES.
   (A)   Investigation and issuance. The City Council shall consider all facts
set out in the application and the report of the Chief of Police. Opportunity
shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the granting of the
license. After the hearing, the Council shall, in its discretion, grant or
refuse the application. No “on-sale” license shall become effective until it,
together with the security furnished by the applicant, has been approved by the
Liquor Control Director.
   (B)   Person and premises licenses; transfer. Each license shall be issued
only to the applicant and only for the premises described in the application.
No license may be transferred to another person or place without City Council
approval. Any transfer of a majority of the stock of a corporate licensee is
deemed a transfer of the license, and a transfer of a majority of the stock
without prior Council approval is a ground for revocation of the license.
   (C)   New premises. Where an applicant has applied for a license for
premises whereon a new structure is to be erected, or an existing structure is
to be substantially reconstructed, the license may be granted by the Council,
but issued to the applicant only after applicant furnishes to the Council a
certificate of occupancy issued to the applicant by the Building Official. If a
new building is contemplated or under construction, a floor plan and site plan
must be provided with this application.
   (D)   Persons ineligible for license. No license shall be granted to any
person made ineligible for such a license by state law.
   (E)   Places ineligible for license; general prohibition. No license shall
be issued for any place or any business ineligible for such a license under
state law.
   (F)   Delinquent taxes and charges. No license shall be granted or renewed
for operation on any premises on which federal, state, county or municipal
taxes, assessments or other financial claims are delinquent and unpaid.
(1992 Code, § 806:20)
§ 113.056 LICENSE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In general. Every license is subject to the conditions in divisions
(B) through (F) below and all other provisions of this subchapter and of any
other applicable ordinance, state law or regulation.
   (B)   Hours of sale.
      (1)   No sale of intoxicating liquor for consumption on the licensed
premises may be made:
         (a)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through
Saturday; and
         (b)   After 1:00 a.m. on Sunday, except as provided by §
113.052(D)(5) of this chapter.
      (2)   No “on-sale” shall be made, nor shall any person be allowed to
consume or have in his or her possession or under his or her control, any
intoxicating liquor after the hour of 1:00 a.m. It shall be the responsibility
of the licensee, or employees of licensees to remove all bottles, glassware and
other beverage containers that contain intoxicating liquor as defined in Minn.
Stat. § 340A.101, Subd. 14, as it may be amended from time to time, from the
bar, table areas and from customers by no later than 1:00 a.m. The premises of
the establishment shall be vacated of all customers by 1:30 a.m.
   (C)   Licensee’s responsibility. Every licensee is responsible for the
conduct of his or her place of business and the conditions of sobriety and
order in it. The act of any employee on the licensed premises authorized to
sell intoxicating liquor there is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and
the licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this subchapter and
the law equally with the employee.
   (D)   Inspections. Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, Health
Officer, Building Inspector or other properly designated officer or employee of
the city to enter, inspect and search the premises of the licensee during
business hours without a warrant.
   (E)   Display during prohibited hours. No “on-sale” establishment shall
display liquor to the public during hours when the sale of liquor is
prohibited.
   (F)   Federal stamps. No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale liquor
dealer’s special tax stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
(1992 Code, § 806:25) (Ord. 1391, passed 1-3-2006) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.057 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No dancing whatever shall be permitted in any establishment other than
clubs which are licensed to sell intoxicating liquor, except where permit is
issued therefor.
   (B)   A dance permit may be issued by the Council for a fee in the amount
duly established by the Council from time to time to “on-sale” license holders.
Each permit shall run concurrently with the “on-sale” license of the permittee,
and shall authorize patron dancing only, and only in designated areas specified
in the permit. No more than two designated areas shall be allowed per
establishment. Permit holder shall be responsible for policing dance areas, and
failure to do so shall constitute a violation of the terms of the permit, and
authorize the Council, upon a public hearing with ten days’ written notice, to
revoke the permit or suspend said permit, separate from the “on-sale” license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to enter or be in any establishment
licensed for the sale of intoxicating liquor; except that, nothing herein
contained shall be construed to prohibit a minor from entering or remaining in
any such establishment in an area set aside for the serving of meals, for the
purpose of purchasing food or non-intoxicating beverages for his or her
consumption. An “area set aside for serving meals”, as used herein, shall be
separated from the serving bar by a permanent type of partition constructed in
a manner satisfactory to the Council so as to delineate in the licensed
premises an area separate from the bar which would be used primarily for the
serving of meals to the public for a consideration to be charged therefor. It
shall be the responsibility of the licensee or any employee of licensee to
ensure that no minor enter the establishment, other than an area set aside for
serving meals. Should a minor be found in an area other than an area set aside
for serving meals, the licensee shall be in violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   No musical entertainment shall be permitted or conducted in any
licensed premises other than clubs, except on an area set aside solely for the
use as a stage.
   (E)   No person may carry or transport intoxicating liquor in a glass or
other open container on a public sidewalk, street, alley or parking lot in the
city, or consume it thereon.
(1992 Code, § 806:30) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.058 PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place or
place of business unless it has a license to sell liquor “on-sale” or permit
from the Liquor Control Director under state statutes, and no person shall
consume liquor in any such place.
(1992 Code, § 806:35) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.059 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Council may either suspend for not to exceed 60 days or revoke any
liquor license upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any
applicable statute, regulation or ordinance relating to intoxicating liquor. No
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 14.58, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 806:40)
BREW PUBS; BREWER TAPROOM
§ 113.060 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of Minn. Stat. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to
time, relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption, sales,
conditions of bonds for licenses, hours of sale and all other matters
pertaining to the retail, sale, distribution and consumption of intoxicating
liquor, malt liquor greater than 3.2% alcohol by volume and 3.2% malt liquor
are adopted and made part of this subchapter as if set out in full.
(Ord. 1545, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 113.061 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following words,
combination of words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section and in Minn. Stat. Ch. 340A,
at is may be amended from time to time:
   BREWER. A person who manufactures malt liquor for sale.
   BREW PUB. A brewer who also holds one or more retail on-sale licenses and
who manufactures fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year, at any one
licensed premises, the entire production of which is solely for consumption on
tap on any licensed premises owned by the brewer, or for off-sale from those
licensed premises as permitted in Minn. Stat. § 340A.24, Subd.2.
   BREWER TAPROOM. A facility on the premises of or adjacent to the premises
owned by a brewer, licensed under Minn. Stat. § 340A.301, subd. 6, (c), (i) or
(o), intended for the on-sale consumption and limited off sale of beer produced
on site by the brewer as authorized by Minn. Stat. § 340A.26.
   EXCLUSIVE LIQUOR STORE. An establishment used exclusively for the sale of
alcoholic beverages and those items as enumerated in Minn. Stat. § 340A.412,
Subd. 14, commonly known as an "Off-Sale" liquor store.
   GROWLER. A 64-ounce container commonly known as a growler or a 750
milliliter bottle for the sale of malt liquor off-sale by a small brewer or
brew pub, which has been produced and packaged by the brewer in the manner as
prescribed in Minn. Stat. § 340A.285(a).
   MALT LIQUOR. Any beer, ale, or other beverage made from malt by fermentation
and containing not less than one-half of one percent alcohol by volume. Malt
liquor containing not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume nor more than 3.2%
alcohol by weight shall be defined as 3.2% malt liquor.
(Ord. 1545, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 113.062 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person who manufactures malt liquor for sale, except a wholesaler or
manufacturer to the extent authorized under state license, shall directly or
indirectly deal in, sell or keep for sale any malt liquor or other intoxicating
liquor without a license to do so as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1545, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 113.063 LICENSES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Brew pub on-sale license. A Brew Pub On-Sale Intoxicating Liquor or
On-Sale 3.2% Malt Liquor License, with the approval of the Commissioner of
Public Safety, may be issued to a brewer who operates a restaurant in its place
of manufacture and who meets the criteria in Minn. Stat. § 340A.24, as it may
be amended from time to time. Sales under this license at on-sale may not
exceed 3,500 barrels per year. If a brew pub licensed under this section
possesses a license for off-sale under division (B) below, the brew pub's total
combined retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per
year, provided that off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels.
      (1)   Hours of sale. Brew Pub On-Sale Licensees are subject to the hours
of sale as prescribed for "On-Sale" liquor licensees in §
113.056(B) of this chapter.
      (2)   Brew pub Sunday sales. The holder of a Brew Pub On-Sale Liquor
License may be issued a Sunday On-Sale Liquor License, subject to the hours of
sale, as prescribed for "On-Sale" Liquor Licensees in Ordinance Code §
113.052(O) of this chapter.
      (3)   Interest in other license. A Brew Pub Licensee may hold or have an
interest in other retail on-sale licenses as provided in Minn. Stat. § 340A.24,
Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Brew pub off-sale license. The holder of a brew pub license under
division (A) above who otherwise meets the criteria established at Minn. Stat.
§ 340A.24, as it may be amended from time to time, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued a brewer off-sale license for the
off-sale of malt liquor produced and packaged on the licensed premises.
      (1)   Hours of sale. Off-sale of malt liquor shall be limited to the
legal hours for off-sale at exclusive liquor stores in the city as prescribed
for “Off-Sale” liquor licensees in city code §
113.079(B).
      (2)   Brew pub sunday off-sale. The holder of brew pub on-sale Sunday
liquor license may be issued a Sunday off-sale liquor license. Malt liquor may
only be sold in growlers at off-sale on Sundays.
      (3)   Malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the premises before
the applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor stores.
      (4)   All malt liquor sold under this license shall be packaged in the
manner required by Minn. Stat. § 340A.285 as it may be amended from time to
time. Sales under this license may not exceed 500 barrels per year.
      (5)   If a brewer licensed under this section possesses a brew pub on-
sale license under division (A) above, the brewer's total retail sales at on-
sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year, provided that off-sales
may not total more than 500 barrels.
   (C)   Brewer taproom license. An on-sale brewer taproom license may be
issued to the holder of a brewer's license under Minn. Stat. § 340A.301, Subd.
6(c), (i) or (o) as it may amended from time to time. An on-sale brewer taproom
license authorizes on-sale of malt liquor produced by the brewer for
consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one brewery location owned by the
brewer.
      (1)   The holder of a taproom license may also hold a license to operate
a restaurant at the brewery. A brewer may have only one taproom license and may
not have an ownership interest in a brewer licensed under Minn. Stat. §
340A.301, Subd. 6(d) ("brew pub"), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   A brewer taproom license may not be issued to a brewer that brews
more than 250,000 barrels of malt liquor annually or a winery that produces
more than 250,000 gallons of wine annually.
      (3)   Within ten days of issuing a brewer taproom license the City Clerk
will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of the licensee's name, address,
trade name and the effective date and expiration date of the license.
      (4)   The City Clerk will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of a
license transfer, cancellation, suspension, or revocation during the license
period.
      (5)   Sunday on-sale. A Sunday on-sale taproom license may be issued to a
holder of an on-sale brewer taproom license which also holds a restaurant
license. Subject to hours of sale. As prescribed for on-sale liquor licensees
in city code §
113.052(D) of this Chapter.
   (D)   Small brewer off-sale license. A small brewer off-sale malt liquor
license may be issued, with approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, to a
holder of a Brewer's License under Minn. Stat. § 340A.301, Subd. 6(c), (i) or
(j) that meets the criteria established in Minn. Stat. § 340A.28 ("small brewer
off-sale") as may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   A brewer may only have one license under this subdivision.
      (2)   The amount of malt liquor sold at off-sale may not exceed 500
barrels annually.
      (3)   Hours of sale. Off-sale of malt liquor shall be limited to the
legal hours for off-sale at exclusive liquor stores in the city, as set forth
in this city code §
113.079(B).
      (4)   A Sunday off-sale license may be issued to the holder of a small
brewer off-sale license. Subject to the hours of sale, as prescribed in
division (D)(3) of this section.
      (5)   Malt liquor in growlers only may be sold in growlers at off-sale on
Sundays.
      (6)   Malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the premises before
the applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor stores.
      (7)   Packaging of malt liquor for off-sale under this license must
comply with Minn. Stat. § 340A.285.
   (E)   Brewer temporary on-sale license. Brewer temporary on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued. With the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to brewers who manufacture fewer than 3,500
barrels of malt liquor in a year for the on-sale of intoxicating liquor in
connection with a social event within the city sponsored by the brewer.
(Ord. 1545, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 113.064 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for licenses authorized under §
113.063 shall be made as provided in the manner set forth for an on-sale liquor
license as provided for in §
113.053.
(Ord. 1545, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 113.065 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fees for a brew pub on-sale and off-sale license
under §
113.063. Brewer taproom on-sale license, and small brewer off-sale license and
brewer temporary on-sale license and Sunday sale license shall be in the
amounts duly established from time to time by City Council and set forth in “
Appendix A: Fee Schedule” to Chapter 35 of this city code.
   (B)   Investigation fee. At the time of the initial application for any
license authorized under §
113.063, the applicant shall pay to the city an investigation fee of an amount
to be set by the Council from time to time, which is not refundable in whole or
in part. An investigation fee is not required for renewals for the same
applicant unless an investigation is deemed necessary by the Council.
(Ord. 1545, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 1548, passed 11-15-2016)
“OFF-SALE” LIQUOR
§ 113.070 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of Minn. Stat. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to
time, relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption, sales,
conditions of bonds of licensees, hours of sale and all other matters
pertaining to the retail sale, distribution and consumption of intoxicating
liquor, are adopted and made a part of this subchapter as if set out in full.
(1992 Code, § 810:00) (Ord. 700, passed 10-17-1978)
§ 113.071 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the words, combinations of
words, terms and phrases, as used in this subchapter shall have the meanings
set forth herein and Minn. Stat. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(1992 Code, § 811:00)
§ 113.072 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a wholesaler or manufacturer to the extent authorized
under state license, shall directly or indirectly deal in, sell or keep for
“off-sale” in the city any intoxicating liquor without a license to do so as
provided in this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 811:05) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.073 “OFF-SALE” LICENSES.
   (A)   “Off-sale” licenses shall be issued only to exclusive liquor stores
and shall permit “off-sale” of liquor only, except as hereafter provided in
division (B) below.
   (B)   Samples of wine, liqueurs and cordials, which are in stock and being
offered for sale, may be dispensed at no charge to be consumed on the premises
during permitted hours of “off-sale” in a quantity less than 50 milliliters
(1.7 oz.) of wine per variety per customer and 25 milliliters (0.85 oz.) of
liqueur or cordial per variety per customer.
   (C)   The number of licenses authorized is not subject to limitation. The
grant or denial of a license privilege to any applicant therefor rests in the
sound discretion of the Council.
(1992 Code, § 811:10)
§ 113.074 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license to sell liquor shall state the
name of the applicant, his or her age, representation as to his or her
character, with such references as the Council may request, his or her
citizenship, the type of license applied for, the proposed location, whether
the applicant is or will be owner and operator of the business and such other
information as the Council may request from time to time. In addition to
containing such information, the application shall be in the form prescribed by
the Liquor Control Director and shall be verified and filed with the City
Clerk-Treasurer. No person shall make a false statement in an application. A
copy of each application shall be forwarded to the Chief of Police and he or
she shall return a report of his or her objection (if any) to issuance of the
license as required.
   (B)   Insurance. Each applicant for a license shall provide, with the
application, proof of financial responsibility as follows:
      (1)   A certificate that there is in effect an insurance policy or pool
providing the following minimum coverages:
         (a)   Fifty thousand dollars because of bodily injury to any one
person in any one occurrence and, subject to the limit for one person, in the
amount of $100,000 because of bodily injury to two or more persons in any one
occurrence, and in the amount of $10,000 because of injury to or destruction of
property of others in any one occurrence; and
         (b)   Fifty thousand dollars for loss of means of support of any one
person in any one occurrence, and, subject to the limit for one person,
$100,000 for loss of means of support of two or more persons in any one
occurrence.
      (2)   A bond of a surety company, with minimum coverages as provided in
division (B)(1) above; or
      (3)   A certificate of the State Treasurer that the licensee has
deposited with him or her $100,000 in cash or securities which may legally be
purchased by savings banks or for trust funds having a market value of
$100,000.
   (C)   Approval of security. The security offered under division (B) above
shall be approved by the City Council, and, in the case of applicants for “off-
sale” licenses, by the State Liquor Control Director. Surety bonds shall be
approved as to form by the City Attorney. Operation of a licensed “off-sale”
business without having on file with the city at all times effective security,
as required in division (B) above, is a cause for revocation of the license.
(1992 Code, § 811:15) (Ord. 1236, passed 6-20-2000)
§ 113.075 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Fees. The annual fee for a liquor license for an “off-sale” license
shall be in the amounts duly established from time to time by state law.
   (B)   Payment. Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a
receipt from the City Clerk- Treasurer for payment of the prescribed license
fee. All fees shall be paid into the General Fund. If an application for a
license is rejected, the Clerk-Treasurer shall refund the amount paid.
   (C)   Term. Each license shall be issued for a period of one year. Every
license shall expire on June 30.
   (D)   Refunds. No refund of any fee shall be made, except as authorized by
statute.
   (E)   Investigation fee. At the time of initial application for an “off-
sale” license or upon application for a transfer of an existing license, the
applicant shall pay to the city an investigation fee of an amount to be set by
the Council from time to time, which is not refundable in whole or in part. An
investigation fee is not required for renewals for the same applicant unless an
investigation is deemed necessary by the Council.
(1992 Code, § 811:20)
§ 113.076 GRANTING LICENSES.
   (A)   Investigation and issuance. The City Council shall consider all facts
set out in the application and the report of the Chief of Police. Opportunity
shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the granting of the
license. After the consideration and hearing, the Council shall, in its
discretion, grant or refuse the application. No “off-sale” license shall become
effective until it, together with the security furnished by the applicant, has
been approved by the Liquor Control Director.
   (B)   Person and premises licenses; transfer. Each license shall be issued
only to the applicant and only for the premises described in the application.
No license may be transferred to another person or place without City Council
approval. Any transfer of a majority of the stock of a corporate license is
deemed a transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council
approval is a ground for revocation of the license.
   (C)   New premises. Where an applicant has applied for a license for
premises whereon a new structure is to be erected, or an existing structure is
to be substantially reconstructed, the license may be granted by the Council
but issued to the applicant only after applicant furnishes to the Council a
certificate of occupancy issued to the applicant by the Building Official.
(1992 Code, § 811:25)
§ 113.077 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted to any person made ineligible for such a license
by state law.
(1992 Code, § 811:30)
§ 113.078 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   General prohibition. No license shall be issued for any place of any
business ineligible for such a license under state law.
   (B)   Delinquent taxes and charges. No license shall be granted or renewed
for operation on any premises on which federal, state, county or municipal
taxes, assessments or other financial claims are delinquent and unpaid.
(1992 Code, § 811:35)
§ 113.079 LICENSE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In general. Every license is subject to the conditions in this section
and all other provisions of this subchapter and of any other applicable
ordinance, state law or regulation.
   (B)   Hours of sale. No sale of intoxicating liquor may be made by an off-
sale licensee:
      (1)   On Sundays, except between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.;
      (2)   Before 8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday;
      (3)   On Thanksgiving Day;
      (4)   On Christmas Day, December 25; or
      (5)   After 8:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve, December 24.
   (C)   Licensee’s responsibility. Every licensee is responsible for the
conduct of his or her place of business and the conditions of sobriety and
order in it. The act of any employee on the licensed premises authorized to
sell intoxicating liquor there is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and
the licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this subchapter and
the law equally with the employee.
   (D)   Inspections. Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, Health
Officer, Building Inspector or other properly designated officer or employee of
the city to enter, inspect and search the premises of the licensee during
business hours without a warrant.
   (E)   Federal stamps. No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale liquor
dealer’s special tax stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
(1992 Code, § 811:40) (Ord. 1569, passed 6-6-2017) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.080 PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor in the place of business of any
“off-sale” licensee.
(1992 Code, § 811:45) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.081 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Council may either suspend for not to exceed 60 days or revoke any
liquor license upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any
applicable statute, regulation or ordinance relating to intoxicating liquor. No
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 14.58, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 811:50)
BOTTLE CLUBS
§ 113.095 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purposes of this subchapter, a BOTTLE CLUB is a “club”, as
defined in Minn. Stat. § 340A.101, Subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to
time, or an unincorporated society which, except for its lack of incorporation,
otherwise meets the requirements of a club, as defined in such section and
subdivision, and which is not licensed for the sale of intoxicating liquor,
either “on-sale” or “off-sale”.
   (B)   A bottle club may allow members to bring and keep a personal supply of
intoxicating liquors in lockers assigned to such members. A bottle club or any
unincorporated society which shall have more than 50 members and which shall
have, for more than a year, owned, hired or leased space in a building of such
extent and character as may be suitable and adequate for reasonable and
comfortable accommodations for its members, may allow members to bring and keep
a personal supply of intoxicating liquors in lockers assigned to such members.
Every bottle, container or other receptacle containing intoxicating liquor
stored by members shall have attached to it a label signed by the member of the
club. All liquor on the premises of the club shall be labeled as herein
required, and any not being actually used or consumed by the owner thereof
shall be kept in a locker designated to the use of such member. It shall be
unlawful for any club member under 21 years of age to be assigned a locker for
the storage of intoxicating liquor, or to consume or display or be permitted to
consume or display intoxicating liquor on any premises owned or controlled by
such private club.
(1992 Code, § 815:00) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.096 PERMIT AND FEES.
   It is unlawful for any bottle club or for any business establishment,
directly or indirectly, or upon any pretense or by any device, to allow the
consumption or display of intoxicating liquor or the serving of any liquid for
the purpose of mixing of intoxicating liquor without having first obtained a
permit therefor. Such permit may be issued by the Commissioner of Public
Safety, after approval by the City Council, for a period of one year to expire
July 1 next following issuance of such license, upon the payment to the state
of the amount prescribed in state statutes, and must be renewed annually on
July 1. Application for such permit shall be made to the Commissioner of Public
Safety. In addition to the fee provided by this section, a city fee shall be
payable to the city in an amount to be set by the Council from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 815:05) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.097 HOURS OF SALE.
   No person shall consume or display or allow consumption or display of
intoxicating liquor on any premises of a bottle club between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any weekday. The premises of all such bottle clubs shall
be vacated of all patrons at 1:30 a.m.
(1992 Code, § 815:10) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.098 INSPECTIONS.
   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, Health Officer, Building
Inspector or other properly designated officer or employee of the city to
enter, inspect and search the premises of the licensee during business hours
without a warrant.
(1992 Code, § 815:15) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.099 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any premises licensed for the sale of
intoxicating liquor. No license shall be granted, except to an establishment
having appropriate facilities for the serving of meals, 80% or more of the
income from which is derived from the sale of meals.
(1992 Code, § 815:20)
§ 113.100 COUNCIL VOTE TO GRANT LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted under this subchapter, except by unanimous vote
of the entire Council.
(1992 Code, § 815:25)
§ 113.101 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Council may either suspend for not to exceed 60 days or revoke any
liquor license upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any
applicable statute, regulation or ordinance relating to intoxicating liquor. No
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 14.58, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 815:30)
SPECIAL “ON-SALE” CLUB LICENSES; INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 113.115 SPECIAL “ON-SALE” CLUB LICENSES.
   (A)   Eligible licenses. Special “on-sale” club licenses shall be issued
only to incorporated clubs which have been in existence for 15 years or more or
to congressionally chartered veterans’ organizations which have been in
existence for ten years.
   (B)   Special licenses for Sunday sales. A special license authorizing sales
on Sunday in conjunction with the serving of food may be issued to a club which
has facilities for serving at least 30 patrons at one time, and which has a
special “on-sale” club license.
(1992 Code, § 820:00)
§ 113.116 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license to sell liquor shall state the
name of the applicant, representations as to his or her character, with such
references as the Council may request, the type of license applied for, its
location, how long the applicant has been in existence and such other
information as the Council may request from time to time. In addition to
containing the information, the application shall be in the form prescribed by
the Liquor Control Director and shall be verified and filed with the City
Clerk-Treasurer. No person shall make a false statement in an application. A
copy of each application shall be forwarded to the Chief of Police and he or
she shall return a report of his or her objections, if any, to issuance of the
license requested.
   (B)   Bond and insurance. Each application for a license shall be
accompanied by a surety bond or, in lieu thereof, cash or United States
Government bonds of equivalent market value as provided in Minn. Stat. §
340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time. Such surety bond or other
security shall be in the sum of $3,000. Each applicant for a license shall
provide, with the application, proof of financial responsibility as follows:
      (1)   A certificate that there is in effect an insurance policy or pool
providing the following minimum coverages:
         (a)   Fifty thousand dollars because of bodily injury to any one
person in any one occurrence, and, subject to the limit for one person, in the
amount of $100,000 because of bodily injury to two or more persons in any one
occurrence, and in the amount of $10,000 because of injury to or destruction of
property of others in any one occurrence; and
         (b)   Fifty thousand dollars for loss of means of support of any one
person in any one occurrence and, subject to the limit for one person, $100,000
for loss of means of support of two or more persons in any one occurrence.
      (2)   A bond of a surety company, with minimum coverages as provided in
division (B)(1) above; or
      (3)   A certificate of the State Treasurer that the licensee has
deposited with him or her $100,000 in cash or securities which may legally be
purchased by savings banks or for trust funds having a market value of
$100,000.
   (C)   Approval of security. The security offered under division (B) above
shall be approved by the City Council. Surety bonds shall be approved as to
form by the City Attorney. Operation of a licensed business without having on
file with the city at all times effective security, as required in division (B)
above, is a cause for revocation of the license.
(1992 Code, § 820:05)
§ 113.117 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Fees. The annual fee for a liquor license for a special club license
and for a special license for Sunday sales shall be in the amounts duly
established from time to time by the City Council.
   (B)   Payment.
      (1)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt
from the City Clerk- Treasurer for payment of the prescribed license fee.
      (2)   All fees shall be paid into the General Fund. If an application for
a license is rejected, the Clerk-Treasurer shall refund the amount paid.
(1992 Code, § 820:10)
§ 113.118 TERM.
   Each license shall be issued for a period of one year. Every license shall
expire on June 30. No refund of any fee shall be made, except as authorized by
statute.
(1992 Code, § 820:15)
§ 113.119 GRANTING LICENSE.
   (A)   Investigation and issuance. The City Council shall consider all facts
set out in the application and the report of the Chief of Police. Opportunity
shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the granting of the
license. After the consideration and hearing, the Council shall, in its
discretion, grant or refuse the application.
   (B)   Person and premises licenses; transfer. Each license shall be issued
only to the applicant and only for the premises described in the application.
(1992 Code, § 820:20)
§ 113.120 DELINQUENT TAXES AND CHARGES.
   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises on
which federal, state, county or municipal taxes, assessments or other financial
claims are delinquent and unpaid.
(1992 Code, § 820:25)
§ 113.121 LICENSE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In general. Every license is subject to the conditions in the
following subdivisions and all other provisions of this subchapter and of any
other applicable ordinance, state law or regulation.
   (B)   Hours of sale.
      (1)   No sale of intoxicating liquor shall be made after 1:00 a.m. on
Sunday, nor until 8:00 a.m. on Monday, nor between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
8:00 a.m. on any weekday, nor after 8:00 p.m. on any December 24. The premises
of the club shall be vacated of all patrons at 1:30 a.m.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B)(1) above,
establishments to which special license for Sunday sales have been issued or
hereafter may be issued for the sale of intoxicating liquors which are clubs as
defined in Minn. Stat. § 340A.101, as it may be amended from time to time, and
which have facilities for serving not less than 30 guests at one time, may
serve intoxicating liquors between the hours of 12:00 noon and 12:00 midnight
on Sundays in conjunction with the serving of food.
   (C)   Licensee’s responsibility. Every licensee is responsible for the
conduct and conditions of sobriety and order on his or her premises. The act of
any employee on the licensed premises authorized to sell intoxicating liquor
there is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee shall be
liable to all penalties provided by this subchapter and the law equally with
the employee.
   (D)   Inspections. Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, Health
Officer, Building Inspector or other properly designated officer or employee of
the city to enter, inspect and search the premises of the licensee during
business hours without a warrant.
   (E)   Display during prohibited hours. No “on-sale” establishment shall
display liquor during hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (F)   Federal stamps. No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale liquor
dealer’s special tax stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
(1992 Code, § 820:30) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.122 CARRYING OR CONSUMING INTOXICATING LIQUOR ON STREETS, PARKING LOTS.
   No person may carry or transport intoxicating liquor in a glass or other
open container on a public sidewalk, street, alley or parking lot in the city,
or consume it thereon.
(1992 Code, § 820:30) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.123 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Council may either suspend for not to exceed 60 days or revoke any
liquor license upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any
applicable statute, regulation or ordinance relating to intoxicating liquor. No
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 14.58, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 820:35)
§ 113.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
113.001 through
113.013 of this chapter shall be guilty of a penal offense and, upon
conviction, shall be punished agreeable to the terms of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1992 Code, § 800:65)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
113.050 through
113.059 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1992 Code, § 805:45)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §§
113.070 through
113.081 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1992 Code, § 810:55)
(Ord. 700, passed 10-18-1978; Ord. 727, passed 11-20-1979)
CHAPTER 114: TOBACCO
Section
   
114.01   Purpose and intent
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   License
   
114.04   Fees
   
114.05   Basis for denial of license
   
114.06   Prohibitions
   
114.07   Responsibility
   
114.08   Compliance checks and inspections
   
114.09   Other illegal acts
   
114.10   Exceptions and defenses
   
   
114.99   Violations and penalty   
§ 114.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Because the city recognizes that many persons under the age of 18 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco-related devices, electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery device and
nicotine or lobelia delivery devices, and the sales, possession, and use are
violations of both state and federal laws; and because studies, which the city
hereby accepts and adopts, have shown that most smokers begin smoking before
they have reached the age of 18 years and that those persons who reach the age
of 18 years without having started smoking are significantly less likely to
begin smoking; and because smoking has been shown to be the cause of several
serious health problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all
levels of government; this chapter intends to regulate the sale, possession and
use of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, electronic
cigarettes, electronic delivery device and nicotine or lobelia delivery devices
for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect persons
under age 21 against the serious effects associated with the illegal use of
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, electronic cigarettes,
electronic delivery device and nicotine or lobelia delivery devices, and to
further the official public policy of the state in regard to preventing young
people from starting to smoke as stated in Minn. Stat. § 144.391, as amended
from time to time. In making these findings, the City Council accepts the
conclusions and recommendations of: the U.S. Surgeon General Reports, E-
cigarette Use Among Youth and Young Adults (2016), The Health Consequences of
Smoking - 50 Years of Progress (2014) and Preventing Tobacco Use Among Youth
and Young Adults (2012); the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in
their studies, Tobacco Use Among Middle and High School Students - United
States, 2011-2015 (2016), Minnesota Department of Health (2018). Data
Highlights from the 2017 Minnesota Youth Tobacco Survey. Saint Paul, MN.
(Ord. 1593, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided or clearly implied by context, all terms shall
be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this chapter,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   CHILD-RESISTANT PACKAGING. Packaging that meets the definition set forth in
Code of Federal Regulations, Title 16, Section 1700.15(b), as in effect on
January 1, 2015, and was tested in accordance with the method described in Code
of Federal Regulations, Title 16, Section 1700.20, as in effect on January 1,
2015
   CIGARS. Any roll of tobacco that is wrapped in tobacco leaf or in any
substance containing tobacco, with or without a tip or mouthpiece, that is not
a cigarette as defined in Minn. Stat. § 297F.01, subd. 3 as amended from time
to time.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices,
electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery device and nicotine or lobelia
delivery devices are following and complying with the requirements of this
chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall involve the use of persons under the age of 21
and authorized by this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of
persons under the age of 21 who attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco-related devices, electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery device or
nicotine or lobelia delivery devices for educational, research and training
purposes as authorized by state and federal laws. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be
conducted by other units of government for the purpose of enforcing appropriate
federal, state or local laws and regulations relating to tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco-related devices, electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery
device and nicotine or lobelia delivery devices.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE AND ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE. Any product containing
or delivering nicotine, lobelia, or any other substance intended for human
consumption that can be used by a person to simulate smoking in the delivery of
nicotine or any other substance through inhalation of vapor from the product.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes any component part of a product, whether or
not marketed or sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE does not include
any product that has been approved or certified by the United States Food and
Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product, as a tobacco-
dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is marketed and sold for
such an approved purpose.
   HOOKAH. A pipe with a long, flexible tube by which the smoke is drawn
through a jar of water and thus cooled for the use of tobacco or tobacco-
related products.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include but not be limited to single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this definition shall not be
considered INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED.
   INDOOR AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by
walls, doorways, or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than 50% of
the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the perimeter of
the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or other
physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent.
   LEGAL AGE. Person of LEGAL AGE means a person 21 years of age or older.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette or any other tobacco product that has been removed from its packaging
and sold individually. The term LOOSIES does not include individual cigars with
a retail price, before any sales taxes, of more than $2.00 per cigar.
   MINIMUM CLERK AGE. Individuals employed by a licensed retail establishment
under this chapter must be at least 18 years of age to sell licensed products.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile, kiosk, trailer or other type of vehicle or transportable
shelter and not a fixed address store front or other permanent type of
structure authorized for sales transactions.
   NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY DEVICES. Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of such a
product, that is not tobacco as defined in this section, not including any
product that has been approved or otherwise certified for legal sale by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for tobacco use cessation, harm
reduction, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely
for that approved purpose.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed, indoor area used by the general public,
including, but not limited to, restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor
establishment; retail and other commercial establishments; educational
facilities; hospitals; nursing homes; auditoriums; arenas; meeting rooms;
waiting rooms; and common areas of rental apartment buildings.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco-related devices, electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery device or
nicotine or lobelia delivery devices are available for sale to the general
public. The phrase shall include but not be limited to grocery stores,
convenience stores, restaurants, and drug stores.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SAMPLING. The lighting of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices
or the activation of and inhaling of vapor from electronic cigarettes in a
retail establishment by a customer or potential customer for the purpose of
sampling the product or device before a purchase.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco-related devices, electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery device or
nicotine or lobelia delivery devices in any  manner where any person shall have
access to the tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, electronic
cigarettes, electronic delivery device or nicotine or lobelia delivery devices,
without the assistance or intervention of the licensee or the licensee's
employee. The assistance or intervention shall entail the actual physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco-related device, or nicotine
or lobelia delivery device between the customer and the licensee or employee.
Self-service sales are interpreted as being any sale where there is not an
actual physical exchange of the product between the clerk and the customer.
   SMOKING. Inhaling or exhaling smoke from any lighted or heated cigar,
cigarette, pipe, hookah, or any other lighted or heated tobacco or plant
product or exhaling vapor from any electronic delivery device, such as vaping.
SMOKING also includes carrying a lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, pipe,
hookah or any other lighted or heated tobacco or plant product intended for
inhalation.
   SMOKING LOUNGE. A tobacco-products shop which allows customers to be seated.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO-RELATED PRODUCTS. Includes cigarettes and any product
containing, made, or derived from tobacco that is intended for human
consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted,
sniffed, or ingested by any other means, including by vaping, or any component,
part, or accessory of a tobacco product; cigars; pipe tobacco, cheroots;
stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other
smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine
cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and
sweepings of tobacco; dipping tobaccos; and other kinds and forms of tobacco.
Tobacco excludes any tobacco product that has been approved by the United
States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as
a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being
marketed and sold solely for such an approved purpose.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS SHOP. A retail establishment with an entrance door opening
directly to the outside that derives more than 90% of its gross revenue from
the sale of tobacco, tobacco-related products, tobacco-related devices and in
which the sale of other products is merely incidental. TOBACCO PRODUCTS SHOP
does not include a tobacco products department or section of any individual
business establishment with any type of food, liquor, or restaurant license.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Include any tobacco product as well as a pipe,
rolling papers, ashtray, or other device intentionally designed or intended to
be used in a manner which enables the chewing, sniffing, smoking or vaping of
tobacco or tobacco products.
   VAPOR LOUNGE. A vapor-products shop which allows customers to be seated.
   VAPOR PRODUCTS SHOP. A retail establishment with an entrance door opening
directly to the outside that derives more than 90% of its gross revenue from
the sale of electronic delivery devices, electronic cigarettes and related
products and in which the sale of other products is merely incidental. VAPOR
PRODUCTS SHOP does not include a vapor products department or section of any
individual business establishment with any type of food, liquor, or restaurant
license.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco-related device.
(Ord. 1593, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 114.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco,
tobacco products, tobacco-related device, electronic cigarettes, electronic
delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery device without first having
obtained a license to do so from the city. All licenses issued under this
section shall be valid only on the premises for which the license was issued
and only for the person to whom the license was issued. No transfer of any
license to another location or person shall be valid.
   (B)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco-related devices, electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery
device or nicotine or lobelia delivery devices shall be made on a form provided
by the city. The application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the
applicant's residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name
of the business for which the license is sought, and any additional information
the city deems necessary. Before the license will be granted, the prospective
licensee shall attend a mandatory retailer training session on the State Youth
Access and Tobacco Law (Minn. Stat. §§ 609.685 and 609.6855) as approved by the
Steele County Public Health Department. Upon receipt of a completed
application, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall forward the application to the City
Council for action at its next regularly scheduled City Council meeting. If the
City Clerk - Treasurer determines an application incomplete, he or she shall
return the application to the applicant with notice of the information
necessary to make the application complete.
   (C)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it
may delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
City Council approves the license, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the
license to the applicant. If the City Council denies the license, notice of the
denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant's
right to appeal the City Council's decision.
   (D)   Term. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid for one
calendar year from the date of issue.
   (E)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this section may be
revoked or suspended as provided in §
114.99 of this chapter.
   (F)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the City Council.
   (G)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible for
licensing under this section.
   (H)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premise.
   (I)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the
expiration of the current license. All license holders will annually renew and
submit a plan detailing their training of new employees about the State Youth
Access and Tobacco Law (Minn. Stat. §§ 609.685 to 609.6855).
   (J)   Issuance as privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license
issued under this section represents a privilege and not an absolute right of
the applicant and does not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the
license.
   (K)   Smoking. Except as allowed under Minn. Stat. § 144.414, smoking shall
not be permitted, and no person shall smoke within the indoor area of any
establishment with a retail tobacco license. Smoking for the purposes of
sampling tobacco and tobacco-related products generally is prohibited.
(Ord. 1593, passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee is paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
established in
Appendix A: Fee Schedule to
Chapter 35 Fees as changed by this Municipal Code, as amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 1593, passed 9-17-2019)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license under this
chapter include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years.
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices,
electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery device or nicotine or lobelia
delivery devices.
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco-related devices, electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery device or
nicotine or lobelia delivery devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of
the date of application.
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information.
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license.
      (6)   The Council finds that the issuance or renewal of a license is
contrary to the intent and purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   Except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of any
particular ground for denial, however, does not mean that the city must deny
the license.
   (C)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery of the ineligibility of the applicant for the
license under this chapter.
(Ord. 1593, passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99 
§ 114.06 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco-related
device, electronic cigarette, electronic delivery device or nicotine or lobelia
delivery device:
      (1)   To any person under the age of 21 years.
      (2)   By means of any type of vending machine.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, electronic
cigarettes, electronic delivery device or nicotine or lobelia delivery devices
by any means whereby the customer may have access to those items without having
to request the item from the licensee or the licensee's employee and whereby
there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco-
related device, or nicotine or lobelia delivery device between the licensee or
his or her clerk and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-
related devices, electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery device and nicotine
or lobelia delivery devices shall either be stored behind a counter or other
area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage unit not
left open and accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling tobacco,
tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, electronic cigarettes, electronic
delivery device or nicotine or lobelia delivery devices at the time this
chapter is adopted shall comply with this section within 90 days following the
effective date of this chapter. A license holder who operates an establishment
or fully enclosed portion of an establishment that sells at least 90% of its
products in tobacco, or tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, electronic
delivery devices or electronic cigarettes, is exempt from the self-service
merchandising provision if the license holder prohibits anyone under 18 years
of age from entering the establishment or fully enclosed portion of an
establishment and the license holder conspicuously displays a notice
prohibiting persons under 18 years of age from entering the establishment.
      (4)   By means of loosies as defined in §
114.02.
      (5)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the
intention of this provision to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes
or other tobacco products.
      (6)   By any other means, to any other person, on in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision, or
other regulation.
   (B)   Smoking and sampling prohibitions.
      (1)   Except for exceptions listed in Minn. Stat. § 144.4167, smoking
generally shall be prohibited and no person shall smoke in public places and
places of work, including outdoor and bar areas of restaurants. Other than
provided for in § 144.4167, subd. 4, tobacco sampling, including sampling of
electronic delivery devices and products used in electronic delivery devices,
is specifically prohibited in the city.
      (2)   To ensure that tobacco smoke or vapor electronic delivery devices
does not enter public places and places of work and that persons entering such
places are not exposed involuntarily to smoke or vapor, smoking and the use of
electronic delivery devices are prohibited within 25 feet of entrances, exits,
open windows and ventilation intakes of public places and places of work. This
prohibition does not apply to entrances and exits used solely in the event of
an emergency and appropriately signed for that purpose.
   (C)   Smoking lounges. Smoking lounges, hookah lounges and vapor lounges are
prohibited.
   (D)   Cigars. No person shall sell, offer to sell or distribute cigars in an
original package containing fewer than five cigars. This restriction shall not
apply to any sales, offer to sell, or distribution of an original package
consisting of one, two, three, four, or five cigars, provided that each
original package has a retail sales price of at least $2.60 per cigar and after
any price promotions or discounts are taken into account and before the
imposition of sales tax, but excluding retail sales tax, and tobacco product
shops only accessible to those 18 years or older.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to premium cigars as defined in Minn.
Stat. § 297F.01 subd. 13a.
      (2)   The minimum pricing established in this section shall be adjusted
periodically for inflation at least every three years.
(Ord. 1593, passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-
related devices, electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery device or nicotine
or lobelia delivery devices on the licensed premises. The sale offers to sell
or furnishing of any licensed product by an employee shall be considered an act
by the licensee. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the
city from also subjecting the employee to civil penalties provided under this
chapter, state or federal law, or other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 1593, passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises must be open to inspection by law enforcement or other
authorized city officials during regular business hours. From time to time, but
at least once per year, the city will conduct compliance checks. In accordance
with state law, the city will conduct at least one compliance check that
involves the participation of a person between the ages of 15 and 17 and at
least one compliance check that involves the participation of a person between
the ages of 18 and 20 to enter licensed premises to attempt to purchase
licensed products. Prior written consent is required for any person under the
age of 18 to participate in a compliance check. Persons used for the purpose of
compliance checks will be supervised by law enforcement or other designated
personnel. No person under age 21 used in compliance checks shall attempt to
use a false identification misrepresenting the person under age 21 age, and all
persons under age 21 lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all
questions about the person under age 21 age asked by the licensee or his or her
employee and shall produce any identification, if any exists, for which he or
she is asked. Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks
authorized by state or federal laws for educational, research, or training
purposes, or required for the enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 1593, passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter:
   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco-related
device, electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery device or nicotine or
lobelia delivery device to any person under age 21.
   (B)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person under age 21 to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco
product, tobacco-related device, electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery
device or nicotine or lobelia delivery device. This division (B) shall not
apply to person under age 21 lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (C)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
under age 21 to smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco
product, tobacco-related device, electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery
device or nicotine or lobelia delivery device.
   (D)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person under age 21 to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any
tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco-related device, electronic cigarettes,
electronic delivery device or nicotine or lobelia delivery device, and it shall
be a violation of this chapter for any person to purchase or otherwise obtain
those items on behalf of a person under age 21. It shall further be a violation
for any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a person under age 21 to
illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco, tobacco product,
tobacco-related device, or nicotine or lobelia delivery device. This division
(D) shall not apply to person under age 21 lawfully involved in a compliance
check.
   (E)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any person under age 21 to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the
use of a false form of identification, whether the identification is that of
another person or one on which the age of the person has been modified or
tampered with to represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
(Ord. 1593, passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.10 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco-related devices, electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery
device or nicotine or lobelia delivery devices to a person under age 21 as part
of a lawfully recognized religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremony. It shall
be an affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter for a person to have
reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law.
§ 114.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   Violations.
      (1)   Notice from the city; Right to hearing. A person allegedly in
violation of this chapter may be issued, either personally or by mail, a
citation that sets forth the alleged violation and that informs the alleged
violator of his or her right to a hearing on the matter. The citation shall
provide information on how and where a hearing may be requested, including a
contact address and phone number.
      (2)   Request for hearing.
         (a)   Upon receipt of a citation, a person accused of violating this
chapter may request a hearing on the matter by delivering a written request for
an official hearing to Owatonna City Administrator, City of Owatonna, 540 West
Hills Circle, Owatonna. MN 55060. The hearing request must be made within ten
business days of the issuance of the citation. Failure to request a hearing
within ten business days of the issuance of the citation will terminate the
person's right to a hearing.
         (b)   The City Clerk-Treasurer or other designated city officer shall
set the time and place for the hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and
place shall be mailed or delivered to the accused violator at least ten
business days prior to the hearing.
      (3)   Hearing officer. The City Administrator shall designate a person or
persons to serve as the hearing officer. The hearing officer must be an
impartial employee of the city or an impartial person retained by the city to
conduct the hearing.
      (4)   Decision.
         (a)   The hearing officer will issue a written decision within ten
business days of the hearing. If the hearing officer determines that a
violation did occur, the decision will include the factual findings supporting
the determination that a violation occurred together with an order providing
the penalty to be imposed. The hearing officer shall file the original decision
with the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall serve a copy upon the alleged violator
either by personal service or certified mail within five days of filing with
the City Clerk-Treasurer. If the hearing officer finds that no violation
occurred or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty the hearing officer
shall file the original decision with the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall serve
a copy upon the alleged violator either by personal service or certified mail
within five days of filing with the City Clerk-Treasurer. The decision of the
hearing officer is final subject to an appeal as provided in division (B)(5) of
this section.
         (b)   Costs. If the citation is upheld by the hearing officer, the
city's actual expenses in holding the hearing up to a maximum of $ 1,000 shall
be paid by the person requesting the hearing.
         (c)   The decision of the hearing officer is final.
      (5)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer shall
be filed in the Steele County District Court, Owatonna, Minnesota, within ten
business days of the date of service upon the violator.
      (6)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   Licensees. Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or
whose employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged an
administrative fine of $200 for a first violation of this chapter; $500 for a
second offense at the same licensed premises within a 12-month period; and for
a third or subsequent offense at the same licensed premises within a 12-month
period, the licensee shall be suspended for two years, at which time they will
have to submit a remedial action plan. The city may waive the first
administrative penalty if an age verification device is purchased and used by
the licensee after a failed compliance check.
      (2)   Other individuals. Other individuals, other than person under age
21 regulated by division (C)(3) of this section, found to be in violation of
this chapter shall be charged an administrative fine of $50.
      (3)   Persons under age 21. Persons under age 21 found in unlawful
possession of or who unlawfully purchase or attempt to purchase, tobacco,
tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, electronic cigarettes, electronic
delivery device or nicotine or lobelia delivery devices, shall be referred to
the Steele County Attorney's Office for its diversion program or prosecution.
      (4)   Statutory penalties. If the administrative penalties authorized to
be imposed by Minn. Stat. § 461.12, as it may be amended from time to time,
differ from those established in this section, then the statutory penalties
shall prevail.
(Ord. 1593, passed 9-17-2019)
CHAPTER 115: RENTAL PROPERTY
Section
Registration of Rental Units
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Registration certificate required
   
115.03   Initial application; provisional licenses
   
115.04   Application; forms; information
   
115.05   Agent required
   
115.06   Investigation
   
115.07   Issuance, posting of registration certificate
   
115.08   Notice of violation
   
115.09   Rejection of application
   
115.10   Temporary rental registration certificates
   
115.11   Appeals
   
115.12   Certificate renewal and non-transferability
   
115.13   Suspension or revocation of certificate
   
115.14   Fees
Disorderly Use
   
115.20   Legislative intent
   
115.21   Definitions
   
115.22   Conduct on licensed premises
   
115.23   License suspension and revocation
   
115.24   Prospective tenant background investigation
 
   
115.99   Penalty
REGISTRATION OF RENTAL UNITS
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT.
      (1)   A residential building or portion thereof wholly or partly used or
intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes by human
occupants, rented or offered for rent by any person to any other person for use
for residential purposes. DWELLING UNIT means and includes apartments, single-
family dwellings or manufactured (mobile) homes. DWELLING UNIT does not include
rest homes, convalescent homes, nursing homes, hotels, motels, dormitories or
facilities licensed by the state as institutional occupancies.
      (2)   The annual dwelling unit license and inspection fee shall be in an
amount duly established by the Council from time to time. No license shall be
issued under this section until the appropriate license fee shall be paid in
full.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Owatonna City Fire Department or authorized
designee.
(1992 Code, § 457:00) (Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.02 REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No owner shall allow another person to occupy, nor shall any person
let to another for occupancy, any dwelling unit without first obtaining a
registration certificate as provided in this subchapter, or at any time that
the registration certificate, or the right to receive such a registration
certificate, is suspended or revoked. This registration certificate is also
referred to within this section as a “rental license” or “license”. Any
registration certificate obtained pursuant to this section shall be issued in
the name of the owner. In the case of a multiple-unit dwelling, a registration
certificate issued pursuant to this section includes and applies to both the
entire dwelling as well as each individual rental unit within the dwelling. Any
suspension or revocation of the registration certificate or the right to
receive a registration certificate may involve the entire dwelling or an
individual unit or units within the dwelling.
   (B)   The occupancy or rental of any dwelling unit for which a registration
certificate is required, need not be interrupted or suspended for lack of a
registration certificate if the same is due to the inability of the city to
process the application in a timely manner, or if the owner is in the process
of complying with a notice of deficiencies from the city within the period of
time authorized by the Fire Chief.
(1992 Code, § 457:05) (Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 INITIAL APPLICATION; PROVISIONAL LICENSES.
   On or before 9-1-2003, all owners of dwelling units shall apply for a
registration certificate as hereinafter provided. Upon filing the application
and payment of the inspection fee, the applicant will be issued a provisional
license pending inspection of the dwelling unit. Following the inspection
provided in this subchapter and a determination that the dwelling unit is in
compliance with this subchapter, §§
150.015 through
150.024 and
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances or any applicable federal or state statute
or administrative rule, or any other city or county ordinance, and upon payment
of the license fee, a registration certificate will be issued to the owner for
the dwelling unit or units.
(1992 Code, § 457:10) (Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.04 APPLICATION; FORMS; INFORMATION.
   (A)   Application for registration certificate. An application for a
registration certification shall be filed by the owner with the Fire Chief. An
application for any dwelling to be converted to a use which would require a
registration certificate shall be made and filed with the Fire Chief at least
30 days prior to such conversion.
(1992 Code, § 457:15)
   (B)   Application forms. Forms of applications for registration certificate
that shall be supplied by the Fire Chief and will be available in the offices
of the Fire Chief.
(1992 Code, § 457:20)
   (C)   Applications. Each application for registration certificate shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, residence address, telephone number and date of birth of the
owner of the dwelling; if the owner is a partnership, the name of the
partnership, and the name, residence address, telephone number and date of
birth of the managing partner; if the owner is a corporation, the name and
address of the corporation, and the name, address, telephone number and date of
birth of the chief operating officer; if the dwelling is being sold on a
contract for deed, the name and address of the contract vendee. Where the word
OWNER is used in any part of this subchapter, it shall include all persons as
outlined in this section;
      (2)   Name, residence address, telephone number and date of birth of any
agent appointed by the owner to accept service of process and to receive or
give receipt for notices;
      (3)   Name, residence address, telephone number and date of birth of any
agent actively involved in maintenance or management of said dwelling;
      (4)   Legal street address of the dwelling;
      (5)   Description of the number and type of units offered for rent and
the facilities incorporated in such rental units;
      (6)   Any person making application for a rental registration certificate
must provide proof of identification by the use of a driver’s license, state
issued identification card, military identification card or such other
identification as is acceptable to the Fire Chief. The identification provided
must set forth the full name and date of birth of the person making the
application; and
      (7)   An acknowledgment that the applicant has reviewed and understands
the provisions of this section, intends to abide by the provisions and will
include reference to this section in any written lease used in renting the
property.
(1992 Code, § 457:25)
(Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.05 AGENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any license holder who does not reside within a 30-mile radius of the
city shall, by a written document executed and acknowledged by such license
holder, appoint an agent residing within that area, upon which agent the city
may serve notices pertaining to the administration of this section or of any
provisions of the city code pertaining to such dwelling unit, which service
shall be as effective as if made upon such license holder.
   (B)   In those cases where an agent is appointed, the license holder shall
provide the Fire Chief with the full name, date of birth, address and telephone
number of such agent(s). A license holder shall provide written notice to the
Fire Chief, with the required information, whenever the agent for a licensed
property is changed. The written notice shall be provided to the Fire Chief
within 48 hours of such change(s).
(1992 Code, § 457:30) (Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.06 INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate all applications for the registration
certificate to verify that the dwelling units offered for rent comply with the
provisions of this subchapter, §§
150.015 through
150.024 and
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances or any applicable federal or state statute
or administrative rule, or any other city or county ordinance.
(1992 Code, § 457:35) (Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.07 ISSUANCE, POSTING OF REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.
   Whenever the investigation of an application indicates that the dwelling
units comply with all provisions of this subchapter, §§
150.015 through
150.024 and
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances or any applicable federal or state statute
or administrative rule, or any other city or county ordinance, the Fire Chief
shall issue a registration certificate. Every registrant of a dwelling unit
shall post the registration certificate in a conspicuous place.
(1992 Code, § 457:40) (Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.08 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the investigation of an application for registration
certificate indicates that the dwelling unit does not comply with this
subchapter, §§
150.015 through
150.024 and
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances or any applicable federal or state statute
or administrative rule, or any other city or county ordinance, the Fire Chief
shall serve a notice of violation on the applicant in the manner hereafter
provided:
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include the street address or other description of the real estate
sufficient for identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations for which the
notice is being issued;
      (4)   Specify a reasonable time for the performance of any act it
requires; and
      (5)   Be served upon the owner, or the agent, by personal service or by
leaving a copy at the owner or agent’s usual place of abode with a person of
suitable age and discretion then resident therein; or by depositing the notice
in the United States post office addressed to the owner at the owner’s last
known address with postage prepaid thereon or if service cannot be made by any
one of the above means then such notice shall be deemed served if a copy of
such notice be posted and kept posted for 48 hours in a conspicuous place on
the premises affected by such notice. Such notice may contain an outline of
remedial actions, which if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (C)   Owners of rental property shall give notice of outstanding violations
of this section to any purchaser of such property.
(1992 Code, § 457:45) (Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.09 REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   Whenever the investigation of an application for registration certificate
indicates that the dwelling unit does not comply with the provisions of this
subchapter, and from the nature of the violations, the dwelling cannot be
brought up to meet the minimum requirements, the Fire Chief shall return the
application to the applicant stating the reasons for the rejection of the
application.
(1992 Code, § 457:50) (Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.10 TEMPORARY RENTAL REGISTRATION CERTIFICATES.
   The Fire Chief may issue a temporary rental registration certificate when
corrections required following inspection do not constitute a fire, safety or
health hazard to the tenants or the general public, and the repairs are not
immediately practicable or feasible as a result of factors beyond the rental
property owner’s control. Such factors may include climatic conditions, or the
unavailability of contractors, supplies or materials needed to make the
corrections. A temporary rental registration certificate shall be conditioned
upon the rental property owner making the needed corrections with timelines
determined by the Fire Chief and identified on the temporary certificate. The
temporary certificate shall expire if the work is not completed, inspected and
approved by the Fire Chief by the date listed thereon.
(1992 Code, § 457:55) (Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.11 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any applicant whose application for registration certificate, after
investigation has been rejected by the Fire Chief, may request and shall be
granted a hearing in the matter before the Fire Code Board of Appeals under the
procedures set forth hereafter in division (B) below.
(1992 Code, § 457:60)
   (B)   (1)   Appeals to the Fire Code Board of Appeals. Any person affected
by any notice of violation or emergency order issued and served pursuant to
this subchapter or otherwise adversely affected by the administration of this
subchapter, shall be granted a hearing before the Fire Code Board of Appeals
upon filing in the office of the Fire Chief a written petition requesting such
hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds therefor. The
petition shall be filed within 20 days after the notice is served, order issued
or other adverse action taken.
      (2)   Date of hearing. The hearing requested shall be held not more than
30 days after the day on which the petition is filed or within ten days of such
filing in case of an emergency order. The Chair of the Board may postpone the
date of the hearing for a reasonable time beyond such period if a good and
sufficient reason exists for such postponement and in the case of an emergency
order the Chair determines that adequate safeguards will be taken to provide
for the health and safety of the occupants and general public during such
postponement.
      (3)   Notice of hearing. The Fire Chief shall cause five days’ written
notice of the hearing to be given to the petitioner by personal service or by
mailing to the petitioner’s last known address.
      (4)   Proceedings. At such hearing, the petitioner, petitioner’s agent or
attorney shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to show cause why the
notice of alleged violation or emergency order issued by the Fire Chief or
other action taken adverse to petitioner should be modified or withdrawn. The
Fire Chief shall present a written statement of the findings and decision to
the Board at the time of the hearing together with evidence in support of the
violation, order or other action taken.
      (5)   Decisions of the Board.
         (a)   After such hearing, the Board shall sustain, modify or withdraw
the notice of alleged violation or emergency order or other action taken
depending upon its findings as to whether the provisions of this subchapter
have been complied with. If the Board sustains or modifies such notice or
emergency order, or other administrative action, it shall be deemed to be an
order. A copy of the decision of the Board shall be served by mail on the
petitioner.
         (b)   With respect to existing buildings, whenever it is not
practicable or feasible to require strict compliance with the substantive
provisions of this subchapter, §§
150.015 through
150.024 and
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances, or any applicable federal or state statute
or administrative rule, or any other city or county ordinance, the Board may
approve a variance from such provisions when, in its judgment, existing
conditions are in acceptable compliance with the spirit and intent of the code
and reasonably safeguard the health, safety and welfare of the occupants and
the public.
      (6)   Record of proceedings. The proceedings of each hearing held before
the Board, including the findings and decision of the Fire Chief, shall be
reduced to writing and entered as a public record in the office of the Fire
Chief. Such record shall include a copy of every notice, order, stay or other
writing issued in connection with the matter.
      (7)   Stays. The Board may stay enforcement of an order made after a
hearing for a reasonable length of time; provided, however, that, the Board
shall first find that immediate enforcement of the order would result in
extreme hardship to the person or persons affected and that the immediate
health, safety and welfare of the occupants and the public will not be
jeopardized by such stay.
      (8)   Notices not appealed. Any notice served pursuant to the provisions
of the Housing Code shall automatically become an order if a written petition
for a hearing is not filed with the Fire Chief within 20 days after the notice
was served.
      (9)   Appeals from Board decisions. Any person aggrieved by the decision
of the Board may seek relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction
as provided by the laws of the state.
(1992 Code, § 457:80)
(Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.12 CERTIFICATE RENEWAL AND NON-TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   All registration certificates shall expire two years after date of
issuance and must be renewed upon the expiration of the two-year term. All
information required by §
115.04(C) of this chapter must be submitted at the time of renewal. Whenever
the applicant certifies that no change has been made in a registered dwelling
unit, and the registered unit has been inspected within the preceding 12
months, a renewal registration certificate may be issued without reinspection
by the Fire Chief; provided, the owner certifies that the units are in
compliance with this code, including any applicable provisions of the zoning,
building, fire safety or health ordinances.
   (B)   Every person who transfers title to property registered under this
section shall provide the Fire Chief with the name, residence address and
telephone number of the new owner, and date of the transfer of title within ten
days of the date of such transfer. Within 30 days of the date of such transfer,
the new owner shall apply for a new registration certificate. In the case of a
contract for deed the purchaser shall be deemed to be the owner of the property
for purposes of this section and shall be required to apply for a rental
registration certificate in his or her name. The date on the contract for deed
shall be deemed to be the date the purchaser becomes the “owner” for purposes
of this section.
   (C)   Registration certificates may not be transferred or assigned.
(1992 Code, § 457:70) (Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.13 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Any registration certificate issued by the city pursuant to the
provisions of this section may be suspended or revoked upon a finding that the
certificate holder, during the term of the certificate, failed to comply with
any provisions of this subchapter, §§
150.015 through
150.024 and
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances or any applicable federal or state statute
or administrative rule, or any other city or county ordinance.
   (B)   A person’s right to apply and receive a registration certificate may
be suspended or revoked upon a finding that the applicant has let to another
for occupancy any dwelling unit without first obtaining a registration
certificate as required by this section or who has failed to comply with any
provisions of this subchapter, §§
150.015 through
150.024 and
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances or any applicable federal or state statute
or administrative rule, or any other city or county ordinance.
   (C)   Whenever it appears to the city that adequate grounds may exist for
the suspension or revocation of a registration certificate, or the right to
receive a registration certificate, the Fire Chief shall by notice as provided
in §
115.08 of this chapter, specify the nature of the alleged grounds and order
that a hearing on the matter be held as provided below.
   (D)   No such suspension or revocation shall be effective until the licensee
or permit holder has been afforded an opportunity for hearing before the Fire
Code Board of Appeals as set forth in §
115.11(B) of this chapter.
   (E)   Upon a finding that the registration certificate holder or applicant
has violated any such statute, rule or ordinance, the city may invoke any of
the sanctions provided in §
115.04 of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 457:75) (Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.14 FEES.
   (A)   The biannual rental dwelling unit license and inspection fee shall be
in an amount duly established by the City Council from time to time. No license
shall be issued under this section until the appropriate license fee shall be
paid in full.
   (B)   In the event the Fire Chief or his or her designee fails to attend a
scheduled inspection without good cause, the inspection fee will be reimbursed
to the applicant.
(1992 Code, § 457:85) (Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003)
DISORDERLY USE
§ 115.20 LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   It is declared to be the purpose and intent of this subchapter to
protect and preserve the city’s neighborhoods and public health, safety,
welfare and morals of those who live there. The City Council has determined
that:
      (1)   There are persons residing in rental property in the city engaging
in disorderly conduct which results in a hostile environment for other city
citizens living within rental property or in proximity to rental property;
      (2)   There is currently no city ordinance which provides a formal
procedure by which the city can notify a rental property owner or manager of
the disorderly conduct occurring on the property; and
      (3)   There is currently no procedure by which the city can require a
rental property owner or manager to respond to and resolve the occurrences of
disorderly conduct occurring on the rental property and by which the city may
take administrative action against the rental registration certificate or right
to obtain a rental registration certificate should the owner to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Accordingly, it is the intent of this subchapter to address the
serious and, at times, life threatening problems posed by the occurrence of
disorderly conduct to the health and safety of all residents in all portions of
this city.
      (2)   At the same time, the Council recognizes, acknowledges and complies
with all due process and property rights enjoyed by those who own or manage
rental property as well as those who reside in such property.
      (3)   The subchapter represents the city’s good faith effort to balance
those competing and legitimate interests.
(1992 Code, § 455:00) (Ord. 1317, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROPRIATE ACTION. Action which a reasonable rental property owner would
take based upon the facts and circumstances of each case to prevent a
reoccurrence of the disorderly use.
   DISORDERLY or DISORDERLY USE. Conduct occurring on the “licensed premises”
or “premises” which violates a provision of §
115.22(B) of this chapter.
   LICENSE. A registration certificate or the right to receive a registration
certificate as required by §§
115.01 through
115.14 of this chapter.
   LICENSED PREMISES or PREMISES. The property owned, operated or managed by a
rental property owner and shall refer to an individual unit within a multi-unit
complex when applicable.
   RENTAL PROPERTY OWNER. One who holds the license or who is otherwise
obligated to obtain and maintain the license as required by §§
115.01 through
115.14 of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 455:05) (Ord. 1317, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.22 CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   A rental property owner shall be responsible to take appropriate
action against persons occupying specific units in the licensed premises or
premises who conduct themselves in such a manner as to cause the premises to be
disorderly in violation of the statutes and ordinances listed in division (B)
below. For the purposes of this section, the term PERSONS OCCUPYING THE
PREMISES shall include residential tenants as defined by Minn. Stat. §
504B.001, Subd. 12, as it may be amended from time to time, and those persons
on the licensed premises whose presence the tenant has invited, or to which the
tenant has acquiesced. Violations of this section apply to individual units
within buildings containing multiple units when the conduct occurs within a
unit. Violations of this section by persons occupying specific units that occur
within a common area of the licensed premises shall apply both to the
individual unit and the common area of the licensed premises.
   (B)   The following ordinances and statues are applicable to this section:
      (1)   Minn. Stat. §§ 609.321 through 609.325, as they may be amended from
time to time, prohibiting prostitution;
      (2)   Section 130.01 of this code of ordinances prohibiting tumultuous
conduct;
      (3)   Minn. Stat. § 609.72, as it may be amended from time to time, and §
130.07 of this code of ordinances prohibiting disorderly conduct;
      (4)   Minn. Stat. § 609.33, as it may be amended from time to time,
prohibiting disorderly houses;
      (5)   Minn. Stat. §§ 617.23 through 617.299, as they may be amended from
time to time, prohibiting obscenity;
      (6)   Minn. Stat. §§ 609.75 through 609.763, as they may be amended from
time to time, prohibiting gambling;
      (7)   Minn. Stat. §§ 152.01 through 152.025 and 152.027, Subd. 1 and 2,
as they may be amended from time to time, which prohibit the unlawful sale or
possession of controlled substances;
      (8)   Minn. Stat. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
prohibiting the unlawful sale, use or possession of alcoholic beverages;
      (9)   Minn. Stat. §§ 609.66 through 609.67 and §§ 624.712 through
624.719, as they may be amended from time to time, and
Ch. 133 of this code of ordinances, which prohibits the unlawful possession,
transportation, sale or use of a weapon;
      (10)   Minn. Stat. §§ 609.221 through § 609.224, as they may be amended
from time to time, which prohibit assaults, except that domestic assaults, as
the same are defined by state law, are not included herein;
      (11)   Minn. Stat. § 609.50, as it may be amended from time to time,
which prohibits interference with a peace officer;
      (12)   Minn. Stat. § 609.705, as it may be amended from time to time,
which prohibits unlawful assembly;
      (13)   Minn. Stat. § 609.71, as it may be amended from time to time,
which prohibits riot;
      (14)   Minn. Stat. § 609.713, as it may be amended from time to time,
which prohibits terroristic threats;
      (15)   Minn. Stat. § 609.715, as it may be amended from time to time,
which prohibits presence of unlawful assembly;
      (16)   Minn. Stat. §§ 609.226 and 347.50 through 347.565, as they may be
amended from time to time, dangerous dogs;
      (17)   Table 1003.2.2.2 of the International Fire Code elsewhere adopted
in this code of ordinances, providing occupancy loads and prohibiting
overcrowding;
      (18)   Minn. Stat. §§ 609.74 through 609.745, as they may be amended from
time to time, prohibiting public nuisances and
Ch. 93 of this code of ordinances prohibiting nuisances defined therein;
      (19)   Minn. Stat. § 609.78, as it may be amended from time to time,
which prohibits interfering with “911" telephone calls; and
      (20)   Minn. Stat. § 299F.362, as it may be amended from time to time,
prohibiting the willful disabling of a smoke detector.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, City Administrator or their designees shall be
charged with the responsibility of enforcing division (B) above.
   (D)   Upon determination by the city that the licensed premises were
involved in a disorderly use, the city shall notify the license holder by
regular mail of such violation and direct the license holder to take
appropriate action to prevent further violations. Notice shall be effective if
mailed to the license holder at the person’s last known address. This and
subsequent notices are collectively referred to as “disorderly use notices”.
   (E)   If another instance of disorderly use of the premises occurs within 12
months of an incident for which a prior disorderly use notice was given, the
license holder shall be notified of the instance of disorderly use and shall
also be required to submit a written report of appropriate actions taken by the
rental property owner to prevent further disorderly use of the premises. The
written report shall be submitted to the Chief of Police within five days of
the notice of disorderly use of the premises and shall, in addition to the
report of appropriate actions to be taken, detail all actions taken by the
rental property owner in response to all notices of disorderly use of the
premises within the preceding 12 months. Failure to submit a written report as
required herein shall be a basis for the imposition of a fine and the
revocation or suspension of the license or right to receive the license for the
specific unit or units located on the licensed premises as otherwise provided
for in this section. If the notice of violation has been issued with respect to
a common area of the building or complex of buildings, then the license or
right to obtain such license as to all units in such building or complex may be
suspended or revoked.
   (F)   If another instance of disorderly use of the premises occurs within 12
months of the two or more prior disorderly use notices, the license or right to
obtain such license may be revoked or suspended for a specific unit or units
located on the licensed premises. If the notice of violation has been issued
with respect to a common area of the building or complex of buildings, then the
license or right to obtain such license as to all units in such building or
complex may be suspended or revoked.
   (G)   If another instance of disorderly use occurs within 12 months of the
expiration of a prior suspension issued pursuant to the provisions of this
section, the license or right to obtain such license may be revoked or
suspended for the specific unit or units located on the licensed premises. If
the notice of violation has been issued with respect to a common area of a
building or complex of buildings, then the license or right to obtain such
license as to all units in such building or complex may be suspended or
revoked.
   (H)   No suspension or revocation or other sanctions shall be imposed where
one or more of the three required disorderly use notices were mailed or
delivered to the landlord after the rental property owner has filed an unlawful
detainer action with the district court for the particular unit or units
identified in the disorderly use notice. Calls to the police made by rental
property owners or managers shall not be considered incidents of disorderly use
in the implementation of divisions (D), (E), (F) and (G) above. The initiation
of an unlawful detainer action shall not be a bar to sanctions, however, unless
the action is diligently pursued by the rental property owner. Notice of and a
copy of the unlawful detainer action shall be delivered to the Chief of Police.
A determination that the licensed premises have been involved in a disorderly
use, as described in division (B) above, shall be made upon the preponderance
of the evidence. It shall not be necessary that criminal charges be brought
against a tenant or other person to support a determination of disorderly use,
nor shall the fact of dismissal or acquittal of such criminal charge operate as
a bar to adverse license action under this section.
   (I)   This subchapter applies to all leases, whether written or oral, and a
landlord may consider any tenant’s conduct listed in division (B) above, to be
both a material breach of the lease and grounds for termination in any unlawful
detainer action.
   (J)   This subchapter is not intended to supersede criminal sanctions that
may be applied to the individual who violates the statutes and ordinances in
division (B) above.
   (K)   Consistent with Minn. Stat. § 5048.205, Subd. 3, nothing in this
subchapter:
      (1)   Requires an eviction after a specified number of calls by
residential tenant for police or emergency assistance in response to domestic
abuse or any other conduct; or
      (2)   Provides that calls by a residential tenant for police or emergency
assistance in response to domestic abuse or any other conduct may be used to
penalize or assess a fine to a landlord.
(1992 Code, § 455:10) (Ord. 1317, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. 1529, passed 11-2-
2015)
§ 115.23 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Upon a determination that a license or right to obtain a license may
be suspended or revoked, or that a fine or other sanctions may be imposed, a
public hearing shall be held before a body to be known as the “Rental Housing
Complaint Board”. The Rental Housing Complaint Board shall consist of a Council
member from the ward in which the licensed premises are located, the City
Administrator and the Mayor. The rental property owner shall be afforded an
opportunity to appear at such hearing after receiving reasonable written notice
in the manner provided in §
115.08 of this chapter. The notice shall state the time, place and issues
involved. At this hearing, the rental property owners may present evidence of
mitigating circumstances showing the absence of any need for a public hearing
before Council to consider the revocation or suspension of the license or right
to receive such a license, or the imposition of a fine or other sanctions. The
Board shall in good faith hear and consider this evidence in making a
determination to hold a public hearing. The recommendation of the Board shall
be submitted to the City Council for its consideration. If the Council
determines to call for a public hearing to consider the issue of suspension or
revocation, or imposition of a fine, the Council shall follow the procedures
described in division (B) below.
   (B)   No suspension or revocation shall be effective until the rental
property owner has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing before the City
Council. Should the City Council hold a public hearing pursuant to the
recommendation of the Rental Housing Complaint Board, all parties shall be
afforded an opportunity to appear at such a hearing after receiving reasonable
notice in the manner provided in §
115.08 of this chapter. The notice shall state the time, place and issues
involved. At this hearing, license holders may present evidence of the
mitigating circumstances that would allow rental property owners to retain the
license or right to obtain such a license. The Council shall in good faith hear
and consider this evidence in making a determination to revoke or suspend the
license or right to receive a license, impose civil penalties or impose other
reasonable conditions based upon violations of this section. The City Council
may postpone or discontinue such proceedings if it appears that the licensee
has taken appropriate measures that will prevent further instances of
disorderly use.
   (C)   The City Council reserves the right to impose any of the following
sanctions for violations of this subchapter:
      (1)   Suspend the license or right to receive a license for up to 60
days;
      (2)   Revoke the license or right to obtain the license and establish the
time period after which an application for a new certificate for the premises
may be made;
      (3)   Impose a civil fine not to exceed an amount equal to one month’s
rent for each violation found as a result of the hearings; or
      (4)   Impose other reasonable conditions intended to limit future
incidents of disorderly use.
   (D)   Upon expiration of the suspension or revocation period, a license
holder shall pay to the city a reinstatement fee equal to $100 for the first
unit and $20 for each additional unit.
(1992 Code, § 455:15) (Ord. 1317, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.24 PROSPECTIVE TENANT BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The City Council has determined that there are persons residing in
rental property in the city engaging in disorderly conduct which results in a
hostile environment for other city citizens living in or close to the rental
property. It is declared that the purpose and intent of this section is to
protect and preserve the city’s neighborhoods and the public health, safety,
welfare and morals of citizens by providing a system at the local level for
criminal history/background investigations of prospective tenants.
   (B)   Any owner of rental property may request that the City Police
Department conduct a criminal history background investigation of a prospective
tenant. Such request shall be a form approved or provided by the City Police
Department. The applicant shall pay an investigation fee as established by the
City Council.
(1992 Code, § 455:20) (Ord. 1317, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every person required to register a dwelling unit and who fails to do
so, or who allows the property to be occupied when the dwelling unit fails to
comply with the provisions set forth in §
115.06 of this chapter or when the registration certificate or right to receive
such registration certificate is revoked or suspended, shall be guilty of a
violation of this code. Each day that a property is rented out without a valid
rental registration certificate on file for that property is a separate
violation. A violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit the city from pursuing other legal remedies, including
an injunctive relief, for any violation of §§
115.01 through
115.14 of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 457:65)
   (C)   A violation of §§
115.20 through
115.24 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Nothing in §§
115.20 through
115.24 of this chapter shall prohibit the city from pursuing other legal
remedies, including an injunctive relief for any violation of §§
115.20 through
115.24 of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 455:25)
(Ord. 1316, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. 1317, passed 5-20-2003)
CHAPTER 116: AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Section
Public Dances
   
116.01   Definition
   
116.02   License required; term
   
116.03   Application for license
   
116.04   Issuance of license
   
116.05   Police officer costs for annual license
   
116.06   Display of license
   
116.07   Conduct; responsibility
   
116.08   Officer must be in attendance
   
116.09   Persons forbidden to attend
   
116.10   Exemptions
   
116.11   Hours of operation
   
116.12   Revocation of license
Automobile Races, Tractor Pulls and the Like at County Fairgrounds
   
116.25   Findings and purpose
   
116.26   Definitions
   
116.27   License required
   
116.28   License application
   
116.29   Standards for issuance
   
116.30   License requirements
   
116.31   Duration of license
   
116.32   Revocation of license
   
116.33   License and permit fees
   
116.34   Law enforcement officer in attendance at activities
   
116.35   Exemption
   
116.36   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   Adult Establishments, see
Ch. 112
   Alcoholic Beverages, see
Ch. 113
   Charitable Gambling, see
Ch. 120
   Fireworks, see
Ch. 111
PUBLIC DANCES
§ 116.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance wherein the public may participate by payment,
directly or indirectly, for an admission fee or price for dancing, or by a fee
for a membership in a club, and shall include any manner of holding a dance
which may be participated in by the public through the payment of money,
directly or indirectly.
(1992 Code, § 435:00)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; TERM.
   (A)   No person, persons, partnership, club, committee, association, society
or corporation, except as hereinafter provided, shall hold, conduct or give any
dance or dances within the city without first obtaining a license therefor, as
provided herein, and complying with all the terms and conditions of this
subchapter and any license issued pursuant hereto.
(1992 Code, § 435:05)
   (B)   Such license may be issued for one or more public dances or for a
period of time not exceeding one year.
(1992 Code, § 435:35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Any person, persons, partnership, club, committee, association, society or
corporation desiring to obtain a license to give or hold or conduct any dance
or dances shall make a verified application upon blanks to be furnished by the
Clerk-Treasurer, setting forth the name and address of the applicant, the time
and place of the dance and describing the building proposed to be occupied and
any other information which may be required by the Council or municipal
officials having a duty of investigation under this subchapter. Such
application shall be accompanied by the required fee as stipulated in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances and, if the applicant has not previously paid
an investigation fee as prescribed in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances, he or she shall pay said investigation fee.
Such application shall also be accompanied by a certificate from the Building
Inspector that the building where such dance or dances is or are to be held
complies with all the requirements and regulations relating to ventilation,
toilet facilities, lighting facilities and other regulations relating to the
public health. The Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a copy of the application to
the Chief of Police who shall investigate statements made in such application
and affidavits and return a report to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1992 Code, § 435:10)
§ 116.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall present such application and reports to the
Council. The Council shall either grant or reject the same. If said license is
granted by the Council, said applicant shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer the
charge for officers in attendance as stipulated in §
116.08 of this chapter and, thereupon, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue and
deliver to the applicant a license authorizing said applicant to hold, conduct
or give a public dance at the place and within the time designated in the
license and subject to any conditions stated in such license and this
subchapter. The license as issued shall specify the names and addresses of the
persons to whom issued, the amount paid therefor and the time and place where
the public dance is to be held and such other conditions and requirements as
shall be established by the Council.
(1992 Code, § 435:20)
§ 116.05 POLICE OFFICER COSTS FOR ANNUAL LICENSE.
   In lieu of payment for police officers at the time of issuance of license, a
licensee whose license is issued for a period of one year may make arrangements
with the Chief of Police at least five days before any scheduled dance, for
provision of officers at each dance and at that time pay to the city the cost
of officers for the scheduled dance.
(1992 Code, § 435:21)
§ 116.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   The license shall be posted in a public location in the place of the dance
described therein during the time such public dance is being given.
(1992 Code, § 435:25)
§ 116.07 CONDUCT; RESPONSIBILITY.
   The persons named in the license shall be responsible under the law for the
manner in which such dance is being held and conducted.
(1992 Code, § 435:30)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.08 OFFICER MUST BE IN ATTENDANCE.
   Every licensee shall have in attendance at all such public dances one or
more officers of the law designated by the Chief of Police, during all of the
time the public dance is being held, and shall pay to the city the cost of said
officers for the time beginning one-half hour before the scheduled time of the
dance and ending one-half hour after the close of the dance.
(1992 Code, § 435:40) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.09 PERSONS FORBIDDEN TO ATTEND.
   No person in charge of any licensed public dance shall permit to be in or
remain therein any intoxicated person.
(1992 Code, § 435:55) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   Any of the following may hold, conduct or give a dance or dances without
reference to the provisions of this subchapter requiring the investigation of
applicant or making of an application for the issuance of a license and the
payment of a license fee therefor:
   (A)   Any club, lodge, society or fraternal organization not organized for
profit, or municipality or school district; and
   (B)   Any dance hall or dance studio open to the public for dance and where
no alcohol is served or present.
(1992 Code, § 435:60) (Ord. 1449, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 116.11 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No public dance shall be held or conducted between the hours of 1:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m. any day, nor on Sunday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:00
noon thereof. In all other cases, the Council, in issuing any permit for such
public dance, may fix the hours within which such dance may be held, not
inconsistent with the foregoing.
(1992 Code, § 435:65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.12 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Council may, at any time, revoke such license when it shall determine
upon public hearing that such dancing is being conducted contrary to this
subchapter or any other applicable law, and shall revoke any such license held
by any persons convicted of violating any of the provisions of this subchapter
or of state laws regulating public dance places or public dances.
(1992 Code, § 435:70)
AUTOMOBILE RACES, TRACTOR PULLS AND THE LIKE AT COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS
§ 116.25 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city is concerned that the operation of automobile races, tractor
pulls, demolition derbies and other motorized activities of a like nature, held
at the County Fairgrounds, within the city can lead to excessive traffic,
visual and environmental impacts on the city and increased need for public
safety resources. The city finds that these activities negatively impact
surrounding properties and other outdoor activities within the city through the
generation of excessive traffic and through generation of excessive noise
emitted from traffic, races, speakers, participants and spectators.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate such activities in order
to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the general public and
surrounding properties.
(1992 Code, § 415:00) (Ord. 1370, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 1375, passed 7-19-
2005)
§ 116.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS. Premises located at 1575 South Elm Avenue, Owatonna,
Steele County, Minnesota.
   EVENT. Automobile races, tractor pulls, demolition derbies or any other
motorized activities of a like nature held at the Steele County Fairgrounds.
(1992 Code, § 415:05) (Ord. 1370, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 1375, passed 7-19-
2005)
§ 116.27 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate any automobile race, tractor pull, demolition derby
or any other motorized activity of a like nature at the County Fairgrounds
without first obtaining a license from the city.
(1992 Code, § 415:10) (Ord. 1370, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 1375, passed 7-19-
2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.28 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a license to operate automobile races, tractor
pulls, demolition derbies or any other motorized activities of a like nature at
the County Fairgrounds shall be made by completing an application form provided
by and containing such information as required by the City Administrator.
   (B)   The application must be accompanied by a calendar of events planned
for the entire year. The applicant must include, but is not limited to, a
description of the type of event, the number of anticipated spectators,
security measures to be provided by the licensee, whether fireworks will be
displayed and any other information deemed by the City Administrator to be
reasonably necessary in determining whether or not to grant the license.
(1992 Code, § 415:15) (Ord. 1370, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 1375, passed 7-19-
2005)
§ 116.29 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   A license to operate automobile races, tractor pulls, demolition derbies or
any other motorized activities of a like nature at the County Fairgrounds shall
be granted by the City Council when, in consideration of the application and
from such other information as may otherwise be obtained, the City Council
finds that the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The proposed use complies with all applicable state and city zoning,
building, fire, health and sanitation regulations;
   (B)   The City Council determines that the applicant has adequate plans for
ensuring compliance with the regulations of this subchapter;
   (C)   There are sufficient parking places near the fairgrounds to
accommodate the number of vehicles reasonably expected;
   (D)   The City Council determines that the event planned for the fairgrounds
in the proposed location on the proposed date(s) will not be detrimental to the
health, welfare or safety of the citizens of the city;
   (E)   The City Council determines that the applicant has adequate plans for
ensuring the safety and security of participants, spectators and the citizens
of the city; and
   (F)   The Council may grant any licenses subject to such conditions as it
deems appropriate to protect the health, welfare and safety of the community.
(1992 Code, § 415:20) (Ord. 1370, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 1375, passed 7-19-
2005)
§ 116.30 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, all licenses issued under this
subchapter are subject to the following conditions and limitations.
   (A)   Proof of licensing for the use of fireworks must be provided with the
application or approval by the City Council at least one month prior to the
event.
   (B)   The licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of the business
being operated and shall at all times maintain conditions of order.
   (C)   All licenses shall have at all times a valid certificate of insurance
issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state indicating
that the licensee is currently covered for operation of the automobile race,
tractor pull, demolition derby or any other motorized activity of a like nature
held at the County Fairgrounds by a liability insurance policy. The minimum
limits of coverage for such insurance shall be $1,000,000 combined single
limit.
   (D)   Such insurance shall be kept in force during the term of the license
and shall provide for notification to the city prior to terminating or
cancellation. A certificate of insurance shall be filed with the city.
   (E)   The licensee hereunder shall comply with all license conditions and
with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided herein, all licenses issued under this
subchapter are subject to the following conditions and limitations, except
during County Fair week.
      (1)   No race, heat or event shall commence after 10:30 p.m.
      (2)   No race, heat or event shall continue after 11:00 p.m.
      (3)   All spectators, drivers and employees must be off the grounds or
premises by 12:00 midnight.
      (4)   Each licensee shall deposit with the City Administrator $500 in
certified check, cashier’s check or cash, with application for license, at
least one week prior to the commencement of the event, to be forfeited at the
rate of $500 for each one-half hour or portion thereof that any event commences
after 10:30 p.m. or continues after 11:00 p.m.
   (G)   (1)   Special events on any weekday or weekends and displays of
fireworks which are not on the calendar submitted with the application may be
approved by the City Administrator on a case-by-case basis, at least one week
in advance of the special event.
      (2)   Application for these events must be made on a form provided by the
city and are subject to a special permit fee to be established from time to
time by the City Council.
(1992 Code, § 415:25) (Ord. 1370, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 1375, passed 7-19-
2005; Ord. 1496, passed 4-16-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.31 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   A license to operate automobile races, tractor pulls, demolition derbies or
any other motorized activities of a like nature at the County Fairgrounds shall
be effective for the period set forth in the license, not to exceed one year.
(1992 Code, § 415:30) (Ord. 1370, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 1375, passed 7-19-
2005)
§ 116.32 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued under this subchapter may be revoked, after a hearing
before the Council, if the license holder does not comply with the provisions
of this subchapter or any condition attached to the issuance of the license.
(1992 Code, § 415:35) (Ord. 1370, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 1375, passed 7-19-
2005)
§ 116.33 LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES.
   The fees for any license or permit required under this subchapter shall be
established by the City Council from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 415:40) (Ord. 1370, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 1375, passed 7-19-
2005)
§ 116.34 LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN ATTENDANCE AT ACTIVITIES.
   The licensee shall provide for the attendance during the event of one or
more law enforcement officers as determined and approved by the County Sheriff.
Licensee shall pay the cost of officers so assigned.
(1992 Code, § 415:45) (Ord. 1370, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 1375, passed 7-19-
2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.35 EXEMPTION.
   The County Free Fair Board shall be exempt from the provisions of this
subchapter regulating automobile races, tractor pulls, demolition derbies and
other motorist activities of a like nature held at the County Fairgrounds
scheduled during the annual County Free Fair.
(Ord. 1496, passed 4-16-2013)
§ 116.36 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this subchapter is 6-21-2005.
(Ord. 1375, passed 7-19-2005)
CHAPTER 117: UTILITY INSTALLERS AND CONTRACTORS; PUBLIC WORKS
Section
Garbage and Refuse Hauling
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   License required
   
117.03   Application and fee
   
117.04   Approved vehicles
   
117.05   Revocation
   
117.06   Insurance
   
117.07   Hauling in vehicles
   
117.08   Sites for disposal
   
117.09   Storage of garbage and other refuse; rules and regulations
Plumbers
   
117.20   Definition
   
117.21   License required
   
117.22   Application
   
117.23   Bond and insurance
   
117.24   Expiration of license
   
117.25   Licenses to firms or corporations
   
117.26   Use of licensee’s name by another
   
117.27   Plumbing permits required and inspections
   
117.28   Violations
Gas Installers
   
117.40   Definition
   
117.41   License required
   
117.42   Application
   
117.43   Insurance
   
117.44   Expiration of license
   
117.45   Licenses to firms or corporations
   
117.46   Use of licensee’s name by another
   
117.47   Gas installer permits required and inspections
   
117.48   Violations
Trees, Shrubs and Vine Removal
   
117.60   License required
   
117.61   Application
   
117.62   Insurance required
   
117.63   License fee
   
117.64   Application form
GARBAGE AND REFUSE HAULING
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal offal and carcasses of
dead animals, but excluding human excreta, sewage and other water-carried
wastes.
   HOUSEHOLD RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials segregated from the mixed
municipal solid waste stream for the purposes of recycling or reclamation
including paper, cardboard, glass, metals and plastics and other specifically
allowed items, but not to include items considered household hazardous wastes.
   OTHER REFUSE. Ashes, glass, crockery, tin cans, grass cuttings, leaves,
boxes, waste paper, rags, old clothing and all similar non-putrescible wastes,
but does not include trees, tree trimmings, brush, wood and other materials
such as earth, sand, gravel, brick, stone, plaster or other similar substances
that may accumulate as a result of construction operations.
   VEHICLE. Each and every conveyance of any type, that will be used directly
or indirectly in the collection, hauling and disposal of garbage or other
refuse.
(1992 Code, § 450:00)
§ 117.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall collect or haul garbage or other refuse for hire within the
city, or hold themselves out as engaged in the business of collecting, hauling
or disposing of garbage or other refuse, without a license from the Council.
Licenses are not transferable.
(1992 Code, § 450:05) (Ord. 1089, passed 4-19-1994; Ord. 1421, passed 8-21-
2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.03 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   All applications for license shall be accompanied by a license fee as duly
set by the Council from time to time. All licenses shall be issued so that they
shall expire on December 31 next succeeding the date of issuance, unless
revoked by the Council. The Council reserves the right to fix the amount of the
license fee for any license issued for any period less than one year.
(1992 Code, § 450:10)
§ 117.04 APPROVED VEHICLES.
   No license shall be granted under this subchapter to any person whose
vehicles are not approved, in that all vehicles shall be so constructed or
adapted as not to permit spilling, dropping or blowing of its contents upon
streets, avenues or alleys or otherwise creating a nuisance and shall have
appropriate covers therefor.
(1992 Code, § 450:15)
§ 117.05 REVOCATION.
   Any license, when issued, may be revoked by the City Council without notice
in the case of the conviction in a court of competent jurisdiction of the
licensee on a complaint alleging the violation of this subchapter or alleging
the violation of the provisions of the city code or the laws of the state
regarding public health. Further, said license may be suspended or revoked at
any time by the City Council for a violation of any provision of the city code
or the laws of the state, upon a hearing; provided that, the licensee shall be
given at least five days’ written notice of such hearing and shall have an
opportunity to appear in person or by agent or attorney and present evidence
relative to the matter under consideration. No portion of a license fee paid
shall be refunded on suspension or revocation of any license hereunder.
(1992 Code, § 450:20) (Ord. 1421, passed 8-21-2007)
§ 117.06 INSURANCE.
   Before any license is granted or renewed the applicant shall furnish to the
City Administrator a certificate of insurance evidencing automobile liability
insurance with limits of not less than $1,000,000 for each occurrence, combined
single limit. The applicant shall also provide a certificate of insurance
evidencing coverage for commercial general liability insurance with a limit of
not less than $1,000,000 each occurrence, combined single limit. Each
certificate shall name the city as an additional insured. Each certificate
shall provide that the insurance policy shall not be cancelled until 30 days
after written notice to the City Administrator.
(1992 Code, § 450:22) (Ord. 1421, passed 8-21-2007)
§ 117.07 HAULING IN VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul garbage or any other refuse,
except on vehicles approved as provided in §
117.04 of this chapter. Persons hauling garbage or refuse, whether hauling for
hire or not, must have garbage, refuse or other material placed in vehicles
and/or containers so constructed or covered as to prevent spilling, leaking,
dropping or the blowing off of contents. Vehicles hauling earth, gravel, stones
or other such material shall be so loaded as to prevent spilling or scattering
of material on city streets.
(1992 Code, § 450:25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.08 SITES FOR DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No garbage, or other refuse, or trees, tree trimmings, brush, wood or
other materials such as earth, sand, gravel, brick, bituminous, concrete,
concrete block, stone, plaster or other substances that may accumulate as a
result of construction operations, shall be dumped or disposed of in the
corporate limits of the city, except at such site or sites as may from time to
time be established by the Council; except that, earth, sand and gravel may be
hauled to a site or sites designated by the City Engineer.
   (B)   Every person and licensee shall comply with all rules and regulations
as may, from time to time, be established by the Council relative to the
dumping and disposal of all materials at each site or sites provided therefor.
(1992 Code, § 450:30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.09 STORAGE OF GARBAGE AND OTHER REFUSE; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In all zoning districts, waste, refuse, trash or debris shall be kept
in an enclosed building or properly contained in closed containers. Containers
shall be metal or plastic, reusable, covered, leak-proof and designed for such
use.
   (B)   Containers shall be located in the side or rear yard. For residential
uses other than single-family dwellings, containers in side yards must be
located within an opaque fenced area. Containers shall not be set on city
boulevards for pickup; except that, containers/dumpsters may be set on city
street or city right-of-way with City Engineer’s written permission and for
periods not to exceed seven days, and city approved uniform residential
recycling containers containing household recyclable materials may be placed
within the boulevard on designated pickup days only, as may be designated by
the City Council from time to time.
   (C)   No refuse, garbage, trash or debris, except household recyclable
materials, will be allowed to accumulate or be stored for more than 14 days.
Construction material must be removed from the job site within 30 days of
completion of project. Construction material not being used on site cannot be
stored in residential areas.
(1992 Code, § 450:35) (Ord. 1047, passed 1-7-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
PLUMBERS
§ 117.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLUMBER. Any person engaged in, or holding himself or herself out as engaged
in the work or business of making any connections whatsoever with the water
pipes, water mains, branch sewers, storm sewers, drains or other service pipes
of said city, or making any repairs, additions or alterations of any pipe, tap,
stop cock, water closet or any other fixture connected with or designed to be
connected with the water works or sewage system of the city.
(1992 Code, § 476:00)
§ 117.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall carry on the business of plumbing within the corporate
limits of the city without first having obtained a license to do so in the
manner prescribed herein; and no permit for doing any such work of a plumber,
as above defined, shall be issued, except to a person who has obtained such a
license.
(1992 Code, § 476:05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.22 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to secure a license or doing the work of a plumber shall
make application in writing therefor to the city. No license shall be issued to
anyone not having a license as a master plumber from the state. The Building
Official shall, upon being satisfied that the applicant is a person trained and
skilled in the business and qualified to receive a license, direct that such
license be issued to such applicant by the City Clerk-Treasurer upon compliance
with the requirements of the following sections of this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 476:10)
§ 117.23 BOND AND INSURANCE.
   Before a license shall be granted to any person as a plumber, he or she
shall comply with the bond and insurance requirements set forth below:
   (A)   File with the City Clerk-Treasurer a certificate of insurance showing
a liability contract of insurance issued to such applicant upon a standard form
policy in common use, to be approved by the Council, issued by an insurance
company authorized to do business in the state, said policy to secure payment,
in accordance with the provisions thereof, to “any person and for any damage to
property for at least the following amounts: as respects injuries to persons,
to the extent of $300,000 for the injury or death of any one person and subject
to the limit of $300,000 for each accident; and, as respects damage to
property, to the extent of $100,000 for each accident, and such certificate of
insurance shall also state that the City of Owatonna, Minnesota, is named
therein as an additional party insured”; and
   (B)   In lieu of insurance certificate, a license from the state, together
with proof of filing of a bond and insurance policy or certificate with the
state in accordance with Minn. Stat. § 326.40, Subd. 2, as may be amended from
time to time, may be presented.
(1992 Code, § 476:15)
§ 117.24 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter shall expire on the last day
of February each year.
(1992 Code, § 476:20)
§ 117.25 LICENSES TO FIRMS OR CORPORATION.
   Whenever two or more persons are to be engaged in the business of plumbing
as a firm, co-partnership or corporation, the license shall be issued to a
master plumber in said firm, co-partnership or corporation as an individual. No
license shall be issued to anyone not having a license as a master plumber from
the state.
(1992 Code, § 476:25)
§ 117.26 USE OF LICENSEE’S NAME BY ANOTHER.
   No person who has obtained any such license shall allow his or her name to
be used by any other person, either for the purpose of obtaining permits, or
doing any work under the license; and every person licensed shall have recorded
in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer, his or her place of business and the
name under which the business is transacted, and shall immediately notify the
City Clerk- Treasurer of any change.
(1992 Code, § 476:30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.27 PLUMBING PERMITS REQUIRED AND INSPECTIONS.
   Inspection of work starting at the city main line connected to the sewer
systems, storm water systems and water supply systems of the city shall be made
by the City Engineer. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
install, alter or repair any plumbing, drain, vent, sump, water closet, sink,
lavatory or other plumbing fixtures within the corporate limits of the city
without first obtaining a permit from the office of the City Engineer for
plumbing. Applications for permits to do work connected to sewer systems, storm
water systems and water supply systems shall be made at the office of the City
Engineer. Tapping permits shall be obtained at the city’s public utilities for
connection to the water supply system. However, no permit shall be required in
case of repairs affecting sanitation, such as mending leaks in faucets, valves
or water supply pipes, mending of broken fixtures, releasing frozen pipes or
rodding and flushing of any house or drain system.
(1992 Code, § 476:35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.28 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Engineer to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter. All plumbing shall be installed, tested and inspected, in
accordance with the State Department of Health Plumbing Code. No person shall
cover any such work without its being duly inspected and approved by the City
Engineer. Penalties shall be as described in Minn. Stat. §§ 609.033 and
609.034, as they may be amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 476:40) Penalty, see §
10.99
GAS INSTALLERS
§ 117.40 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAS INSTALLER. Any person engaged in, or holding himself or herself out as
engaged in the work or business of making any connections whatsoever for gas
stoves, heaters, furnaces or other gas appliances of any kind in homes, or
other buildings or premises in the city, or of making any repairs, additions or
alterations of any gas appliances or pipes or other fixtures connected with or
designed to be connected with the gas system of the city.
(1992 Code, § 477:00)
§ 117.41 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall carry on the business of gas piping within the corporate
limits of the city without first having obtained a license to do so in the
manner prescribed herein; and no permit for doing any such work of a gas
installer, as above defined, shall be issued, except to a person who has
obtained such a license.
(1992 Code, § 477:05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.42 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to secure a license or doing the work of a gas installer
shall make application in writing therefor to the city. Prior to approval, a
written examination must be taken and passed. Written examinations shall be
given the first full week of each month. Applicant will be notified in writing
when written examinations will be given. The Building Official shall examine
such application and, upon being satisfied that the applicant is a person
trained and skilled in the business and qualified to receive a license, direct
that such license be issued to such applicant by the City Clerk-Treasurer upon
compliance with the requirements of the following sections.
(1992 Code, § 477:10)
§ 117.43 INSURANCE.
   Before a license shall be granted to any person as a gas installer, he or
she shall comply with the insurance requirements set forth: file with the City
Clerk-Treasurer a certificate of insurance showing a liability contract of
insurance issued to such applicant upon a standard form policy in common use,
issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state, said
policy to secure payment, in accordance with the provisions thereof, to “any
person and for any damage to property for at least the following amounts: as
respects injuries to persons, to the extent of $300,000 for the injury or death
of any one (1) person and subject to the limit of $300,000 for each accident;
and, as respects damage to property, to the extent of $100,000 for each
accident, and such certificate of insurance shall also state that the City of
Owatonna, Minnesota, is named therein as an additional party insured”.
(1992 Code, § 477:15)
§ 117.44 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter shall expire on the last day
of February each year.
(1992 Code, § 477:20)
§ 117.45 LICENSES TO FIRMS OR CORPORATION.
   Whenever two or more persons are to be engaged in the business of gas
installers as a firm, co-partnership or corporation, the license shall be
issued to such person as designated by said firm, co-partnership or
corporation. Additional persons may be gas installers for firm if they are
listed on application and have passed the written gas installers examination.
(1992 Code, § 477:25)
§ 117.46 USE OF LICENSEE’S NAME BY ANOTHER.
   No person who has obtained any such license shall allow his or her name to
be used by any other person, either for the purpose of obtaining permits, or
doing any work under the license; and every person licensed shall have recorded
in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer, his or her place of business and the
name under which the business is transacted, and shall immediately notify the
City Clerk- Treasurer of any change.
(1992 Code, § 477:30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.47 GAS INSTALLER PERMITS REQUIRED AND INSPECTIONS.
   Inspection of work beyond the city gas meter connected to the gas system of
the city shall be made by the City Engineer. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct, install or alter any gas stove, heater or other gas
appliances or fixtures within the corporate limits of the city without first
obtaining a permit from the office of the City Engineer to do such work. Minor
repair and maintenance shall not require a permit. Applications for permits to
do work connected to the gas system shall be made at the office of the City
Engineer.
(1992 Code, § 477:35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.48 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Engineer to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter. All gas work shall be installed, tested and inspected in accordance
with the State Mechanical Code. No person shall cover any such work without its
being duly inspected and approved by the City Engineer. Penalties shall be as
described in Minn. Stat. §§ 609.033 and 609.034, as they may be amended from
time to time.
(1992 Code, § 477:40) Penalty, see §
10.99
TREES, SHRUBS AND VINE REMOVAL
§ 117.60 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, trim, prune, remove, spray or
otherwise treat trees, shrubs or vines which are located on or extend over any
public street, boulevard, park or other public place, for another, without a
license therefor.
(1992 Code, § 494:00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.61 APPLICATION.
   Application for a license shall be made at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
upon the form provided as hereinafter set forth.
(1992 Code, § 494:05)
§ 117.62 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   No license shall be issued, nor shall the same be effective until the
applicant shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer a certificate of public liability
insurance policy, approved by the Attorney, covering all operations of such
applicant, in the amount of at least $300,000 combined single limit in case of
injury to persons and damage to property in any one accident. Such policy shall
be written so as not to allow any sum for any portion of liability for damages
to property to be deductible. The city shall be named, and the insurance
provided shall include the city as an additional party insured. Should any such
insurance policy be cancelled, the city shall be notified and the license
issued hereunder shall be suspended and inoperative until satisfactory
insurance is provided. No license shall be required when the work to be done is
performed under the direction of the Public Utilities Commission, a city
department head or other public utility otherwise authorized to use the streets
of the city for work related to such utilities.
(1992 Code, § 494:10)
§ 117.63 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee shall be in the amount duly established by the
Council from time to time, which license shall expire March 31 of each year.
(1992 Code, § 494:15)
§ 117.64 APPLICATION FORM.
   The application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the
Council, which shall show, among other things, the name and address of the
applicant, the number and names of the employees of applicant, the number of
vehicles of applicant, together with a description and license number of each
and the type of equipment proposed to be used.
(1992 Code, § 494:20)
CHAPTER 118: SALES OF GOODS
Section
Advertising
   
118.001   Radio and other mechanical musical devices prohibited
   
118.002   Practices prohibited
   
118.003   Permit required
   
118.004   Permit application
Fire, Bankruptcy and Altered Goods Sales
   
118.015   Definitions
   
118.016   License required
   
118.017   Application of regulations
   
118.018   Application requirements; written information required
   
118.019   License fee
   
118.020   Effect of license
   
118.021   Duties of licensee
Pawnbrokers
   
118.035   Purpose
   
118.036   Definitions
   
118.037   License required
   
118.038   Fees
   
118.039   Expiration of license
   
118.040   Application required
   
118.041   New manager
   
118.042   Application execution
   
118.043   Investigation
   
118.044   Public hearing
   
118.045   Persons ineligible for license
   
118.046   Bond required
   
118.047   Records required
   
118.048   Daily reports to police
   
118.049   Receipt required
   
118.050   Redemption period; holding period
   
118.051   Police order to hold property
   
118.052   Inspection of items
   
118.053   Label required
   
118.054   Prohibited acts
   
118.055   Denial, suspension or revocation
   
118.056   Business at only one place
Solicitors and Peddlers
   
118.070   Definitions; exceptions
   
118.071   Licensing; exemptions
   
118.072   License ineligibility
   
118.073   License suspension and revocation
   
118.074   License non-transferable
   
118.075   Registration
   
118.076   Prohibited activities
   
118.077   Exclusion by placard
Ice Cream Vendors
   
118.090   Definitions
   
118.091   License required
   
118.092   Insurance
   
118.093   Equipment required for vehicle
   
118.094   Use of special lights
   
118.095   Inspection
   
118.096   Training of operators
   
118.097   Restrictions on vending activity
   
118.098   Sound amplification devices
   
118.099   Backing of vehicle restricted
Food Vending on Public Streets
   
118.115   Definitions
   
118.116   License required
   
118.117   Insurance
   
118.118   Equipment required for vehicle
   
118.119   Inspection
   
118.120   Training of operators
   
118.121   Restrictions on vending activity
   
118.122   Parking
   
118.123   Sounds amplification devices
   
118.124   Backing of vehicle restricted
 
   
118.999   Penalty
ADVERTISING
§ 118.001 RADIO AND OTHER MECHANICAL MUSICAL DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall maintain or operate in any building or on any street or
premises in the city any radio device or mechanical musical instrument or other
musical instrument or sound device, or amplifying equipment of any kind whereby
the sound therefrom is cast directly upon the public streets and places and
where such device is maintained for commercial advertising purposes or for the
purpose of attracting the attention of the passing public, or which is so
placed and operated that the sounds coming therefrom can be heard to the
annoyance or inconvenience of travelers upon any street or public place or of
persons in neighboring premises.
(1992 Code, § 405:00) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.002 PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, without a permit therefor, drive or propel, or cause to be
driven or propelled, or stop, park or have any vehicle upon the streets or on
any public place in the city with any musical instrument or device, or
amplifying equipment playing music or emitting sounds for the purpose of
commercial advertising. This shall not prohibit the use of radios installed or
being transported in vehicles, nor shall it prohibit the playing of bands or
orchestras in concerts or formal parades, or candidates for public office or
religious purpose or other public enterprises.
(1992 Code, § 405:05) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.003 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall use, maintain or operate in Central Park in the city any
radio device or mechanical musical instrument or sound device or amplifying
equipment of any kind, for any reason, without first having obtained a permit
therefor, as provided in this subchapter; provided, however, that, no such
permit shall be required for the playing of bands or orchestras in said Central
Park.
(1992 Code, § 405:10) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.004 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Every person, organization, firm or corporation desiring such a permit shall
make application therefor to the Council and pay in advance the required
license fee as duly set by the Council from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 405:15)
FIRE, BANKRUPTCY AND ALTERED GOODS SALES
§ 118.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Owatonna.
   CITY LICENSE OFFICER. The City Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Owatonna.
   FIRE AND OTHER ALTERED GOODS SALE. A sale held out in such a manner as to
reasonably cause the public to believe that the sale will offer goods damaged
or altered by fire, smoke, water or other means.
   GOING-OUT-OF-BUSINESS SALE. A sale held out in such a manner as to
reasonably cause the public to believe that upon the disposal of the stock of
goods on hand the business will cease and be discontinued, including, but not
limited to, the following sales: adjustor’s; adjustment; alteration;
assignee’s; bankrupt; benefit of administrator’s; benefit of creditors; benefit
of trustees; building coming down; closing; creditor’s committee; creditor’s;
end; executor’s; final days; forced out; forced out of business; insolvents;
last days; lease expires; liquidation; loss of lease; mortgage sale;
receiver’s; trustee’s; quitting business.
   GOODS. Any goods, wares, merchandise or other property capable of being the
object of a sale regulated hereunder.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   REMOVAL OF BUSINESS SALE. A sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably
cause the public to believe that the person conducting the sale will cease and
discontinue business at the place of sale upon disposal of the stock of goods
on hand and will then move to and resume business at a new location in the city
or will then continue business from other existing locations in the city.
(1992 Code, § 485:00)
§ 118.016 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A license issued by the City License Officer shall be obtained by any person
before selling or offering to sell any goods at a sale to be advertised or held
out by any means to be one of the following kinds:
   (A)   Going-out-of-business sale;
   (B)   Removal of business sale; and
   (C)   Fire and other altered stock sale.
(1992 Code, § 485:05)
§ 118.017 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Provisions supplement other licensing ordinance. The provisions of
this subchapter are intended to augment and be in addition to the provisions of
other licensing ordinances of the city. Where this subchapter imposes a greater
restriction upon persons, premises, businesses or practices than is imposed by
other licensing ordinances of the city, this subchapter shall control.
   (B)   Established business requisite. Any person who has not been the owner
of a business advertised or described in the application for a license
hereunder for a period of at least six months prior to the date of the proposed
sale shall not be granted a license, except as provided in division (C) below.
   (C)   Exception for survivors of businesspersons. Upon the death of a person
doing business in the city, his or her heirs, devisees or legatees shall have
the right to apply at any time for a license hereunder.
   (D)   Interval between sales. Any person who has held a sale, as regulated
hereunder, at the location stated in the application within one year last past
from the date of such application shall not be granted a license.
   (E)   Restricted location. Where a person applying for a license hereunder
operates more than one place of business, the license issued shall apply only
to the one store, or branch, specified in the application and no other store or
branch shall advertise or represent that it is cooperating with it, or in any
way participating in the licensed sale, nor shall the store or branch
conducting the licensed sale advertise or represent that any other store or
branch is cooperating with it or participating in any way in the licensed sale.
   (F)   Persons exempted. The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply
to, nor affect, the following persons:
      (1)   Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
      (2)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
      (3)   Duly licensed auctioneers selling at auction;
      (4)   Persons conducting a sale of the type regulated herein on the
effective date of this subchapter, unless such sale is continued for a period
of more than ten days from and after such effective date, in which event, such
person, at the lapse of the said ten-day period, shall comply with the
provisions of this subchapter; and/or
      (5)   Any publisher of a newspaper, magazine or other publication, who
publishes in good faith any advertisement, without knowledge of its false,
deceptive or misleading character, or without knowledge that the provisions of
this subchapter have not been complied with.
(1992 Code, § 485:10)
§ 118.018 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS; WRITTEN INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   A person desiring to conduct a sale regulated by this subchapter shall make
a written application to the City License Officer setting forth and containing
the information required below:
   (A)   The true name and address of the owner of the goods to be the object
of the sale;
   (B)   The true name and address of the person from whom he or she purchased
the goods to be sold and the price therefor and, if not purchased, the manner
of such acquisition;
   (C)   A description of the place where such sale is to be held;
   (D)   The nature of the occupancy, whether by lease or sublease, and the
effective date of termination of such occupancy;
   (E)   The dates of the period of time in which the sale is to be conducted;
   (F)   A full and complete statement of the facts in regard to the sale,
including the reason for the urgent and expeditious disposal of goods thereby
and the manner in which the sale will be conducted;
   (G)   The means to be employed in advertising such sale together with the
proposed content of any advertisement; and
   (H)   A complete and detailed inventory of the goods to be sold at such sale
as disclosed by the applicant’s records. Said inventory shall be attached to
and become part of the required application. All goods included in such
inventory shall have been purchased by the applicant for resale on bona fide
orders without cancellation privileges and shall not comprise goods purchased
on consignment. Such inventory shall not include goods ordered in contemplation
of conducting a sale regulated hereunder. Any unusual purchase, or additions,
to the stock of goods of the business hereby affected within 30 days before the
filing of an application hereunder shall be deemed to be of such character.
(1992 Code, § 485:15)
§ 118.019 LICENSE FEE.
   Any applicant for a license hereunder shall submit to the License Officer
with his or her application the required license fee as duly set by the Council
from time to time. Any applicant for a renewal license hereunder shall submit
to the City License Officer with his or her renewal application a renewal
license fee in the amount duly established by the Council from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 485:20)
§ 118.020 EFFECT OF LICENSE.
   A license shall be issued hereunder on the terms set forth below.
   (A)   Licensing period. The license shall authorize the sale described in
the application for a period of not more than 30 consecutive days, Sundays and
legal holidays excluded, following the issuance thereof.
   (B)   Nature of sale. The license shall authorize only the one type of sale
described in the application at the location named therein.
   (C)   Saleable goods. The license shall authorize only the sale of goods
described in the inventory attached to the application.
   (D)   Surrender of general license. Upon being issued a license hereunder
for a going-out-of-business sale, the licensee shall surrender to the City
License Officer all other business licenses he or she may hold at the time
applicable to the location and goods covered by the application for a license
under this subchapter.
   (E)   Non-transferability. Any license herein provided for shall not be
assignable or transferable.
(1992 Code, § 485:25)
§ 118.021 DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   A licensee hereunder shall have the duties set forth below:
   (A)   Adhere to inventory. Make no additions whatsoever, during the period
of the licensed sale, to the stock of goods set forth in the inventory attached
to the application for license;
   (B)   Advertise properly. Refrain from employing any untrue, deceptive or
misleading advertising;
   (C)   Adhere to advertising. Conduct the licensed sale in strict conformity
with any advertising or holding out incident thereto;
   (D)   Keep duplicate inventory. Keep available at the place of sale a
duplicate copy of the inventory submitted with the application and shall
present such duplicate to inspecting officials upon request; and
   (E)   Segregate non-inventoried goods. Keep any other goods separate and
apart from the goods listed in the filed inventory as being objects of sale and
shall make such distinction clear to the public by placing tags on all
inventoried goods in and about the place of sale apprising the public of the
status of all such goods.
(1992 Code, § 485:30)
PAWNBROKERS
§ 118.035 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council finds that use of services provided by pawnbrokers
provides an opportunity for the commission of crimes and their concealment
because pawn businesses have the ability to receive and transfer property
stolen by others easily and quickly. The City Council also finds that consumer
protection regulation is warranted in transactions involving pawnbrokers. The
City Council further finds that the pawn industry has outgrown the city’s
current ability to effectively or efficiently identify criminal activity
related to pawn shops. The purpose of this section is to prevent pawn
businesses from being used as facilities for the commission of crimes, and to
assure that such businesses comply with basic consumer protection standards,
thereby protecting the public health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the city.
   (B)   To help the Police Department better regulate current and future pawn
businesses, decrease and stabilize costs associated with the regulation of the
pawn industry and increase identification of criminal activities in the pawn
industry through the timely collection and sharing of pawn transaction
information, this section also implements and establishes the required use of
the automated pawn system (APS).
(1992 Code, § 486:00) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.036 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLABLE TRANSACTION. Every reportable transaction conducted by a pawnbroker
is a BILLABLE TRANSACTION, except renewals, redemptions or extensions of
existing pawns on items previously reported and continuously in the licensee’s
possession, voided transactions and confiscations.
   PAWNBROKER. Any natural person, partnership or corporation, either as
principal or agent or employee thereof, who loans money on deposit or pledge of
personal property, or other valuable thing, or who deals in the purchasing of
personal property, or other valuable thing on condition of selling the same
back again at a stipulated price, or who loans money secured by chattel
mortgage on personal property, taking possession of the property or any part
thereof so mortgaged. To the extent that a PAWNBROKER’s business includes
buying personal property previously used, rented or leased or selling it on
consignment, the provisions of this section shall be applicable.
   REPORTABLE TRANSACTION. Every transaction conducted by a pawnbroker in which
merchandise is received through a pawn, purchase, consignment or trade, or in
which a pawn is renewed, extended or redeemed, is reportable, except:
      (1)   The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used merchandise from a
merchant, manufacturer or wholesaler having an established permanent place of
business, and the retail sale of said merchandise; provided, the pawnbroker
must maintain a record of such purchase or consignment which describes each
item, and must mark each item in a manner which relates it to that transaction
record; and
      (2)   Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise originally received by
pawn or purchase and for which all applicable hold and/or redemption periods
have expired.
(1992 Code, § 486:01) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.037 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   From and after 8-1-2003, no person shall engage in the business of a
pawnbroker without first obtaining a license therefor and paying the fees
prescribed herein.
(1992 Code, § 486:02) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.038 FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The annual license fee shall be in an amount duly established by
the City Council from time to time. No license shall be issued under this
section until the appropriate license fee shall be paid in full.
      (2)   The billable transaction fee shall be in an amount duly established
by the City Council from time to time and shall reflect the cost of processing
transactions and other related regulatory expenses as determined by the City
Council and shall be reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, every six months.
Licensees shall be notified in writing 30 days before any adjustment is
implemented.
      (3)   Billable transaction fees shall be billed monthly and are due and
payable within 30 days. Failure to do so is a violation of this section.
(1992 Code, § 486:03)
   (B)   An applicant for a new license under this section, or for the renewal
of an existing license that is more than six months past due, shall pay an
investigation fee at the time an original application is submitted to cover the
costs involved in verifying the license application and to cover the expense of
any investigation needed to assure compliance with this section. The
investigation fee shall be in a minimum amount established by the City Council
from time to time or the actual cost thereof not to exceed $10,000 if the
investigation is required outside the state.
(1992 Code, § 486:04)
(Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.039 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall expire on January 1.
(1992 Code, § 486:05) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.040 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An application form provided by the City Administrator must be
completed by every applicant for a new license or for renewal of an existing
license.
   (B)   Every new applicant must provide all the following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a natural person:
         (a)   The name, place and date of birth, street resident address and
phone number of applicant;
         (b)   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or
resident alien;
         (c)   Whether the applicant has ever used or has been known by a name
other than the applicant’s name and, if so, the name or names used and
information concerning dates and places used;
         (d)   The name of the business if it is to be conducted under a
designation, name or style other than the name of the applicant and a certified
copy of the certificate as required by Minn. Stat. § 333.01, as it may be
amended from time to time;
         (e)   The street address at which the applicant has lived during the
preceding five years;
         (f)   The type, name and location of every business or occupation in
which the applicant has been engaged during the preceding five years and the
name(s) and address(es) of the applicant’s employer(s) and partner(s), if any,
for the preceding five years;
         (g)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, crime
or violation of any ordinance other than a traffic ordinance. If so, the
applicant must furnish information as to the time, place and offense of all
such convictions;
         (h)   The physical description of the applicant together with a
current photograph of applicant;
         (i)   Applicant’s current personal financial statement and true copies
of the applicant’s federal and state tax returns for the two years prior to
application; and
         (j)   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the
manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them required in divisions (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(h)
above.
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership:
         (a)   The name(s) and address(es) of all general and limited partners
and all information concerning each general partner required in division (B)(1)
above;
         (b)   The name(s) of the managing partner(s) and the interest of each
partner in the licensed business;
         (c)   A true copy of the partnership agreement shall be submitted with
the application. If the partnership is required to file a certificate as to a
trade name pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 333.01, as it may be amended from time to
time, a certified copy of such certificate must be attached to the application;
         (d)   A true copy of the federal and state tax returns for partnership
for the two years prior to application; and
         (e)   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the
manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them required in divisions (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(h)
above.
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation or other business organization:
         (a)   The name of the corporation or other business organization and
the state of incorporation;
         (b)   A true copy of the certificate of incorporation, articles of
incorporation or association agreement, and by-laws shall be attached to the
application. If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a certificate of
authority as required by Minn. Stat. § 303.06, as it may be amended from time
to time, must be attached;
         (c)   The name of the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the
business and all information concerning each manager, proprietor or agent
required in divisions (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(h) above; and
         (d)   A list of all persons who control or own an interest in excess
of 5% in such corporation, organization or business or who are officers of the
corporation or business and all information concerning said persons required in
division (B)(1) above.
      (4)   For all applicants:
         (a)   State whether the applicant holds a current pawnbroker, precious
metal dealer or secondhand goods dealer license from any other governmental
unit;
         (b)   State whether the applicant has previously been denied, or had
revoked or suspended, a pawnbroker, precious metal dealer or secondhand dealer
license from any other governmental unit;
         (c)   State the location of the business premises and whether the
premises are owned or leased;
         (d)   If the applicant does not own the business premises, provide a
true and complete copy of the executed lease;
         (e)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed;
         (f)   State whether all real estate taxes and assessments, personal
property taxes and any other bills for municipal services on or to the premises
to be licensed have been paid and, if not paid, the years and amounts that are
unpaid;
         (g)   Whenever the application is for premises either planned or under
construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application must be
accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed
premises to be licensed; and
         (h)   Any such other information as the City Council may require.
(1992 Code, § 486:06) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.041 NEW MANAGER.
   (A)   When a licensee places a manager in charge of a business, or if the
named manager(s) in charge of a licensed business changes, the licensee must
complete and submit the appropriate application within 14 days. The application
must include all appropriate information required in this section.
   (B)   Upon completion of an investigation of a new manager, the licensee
must pay an amount equal to the cost of the investigation to assure compliance
with this section. If the investigation process is conducted solely within the
state, the fee shall be $100. If the investigation is conducted outside the
state, the city may recover the actual investigation costs not exceeding
$10,000.
(1992 Code, § 486:07) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.042 APPLICATION EXECUTION.
   All applications for a license under this section must be signed and sworn
to under oath or affirmation by the applicant. If the application is that of a
natural person, it must be signed and sworn to by such person; if that of a
corporation, by an officer thereof; if that of a partnership, by one of the
general partners; and, if that of an unincorporated association, by the manager
or managing officer thereof.
(1992 Code, § 486:08) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.043 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The Police Department shall investigate into the truthfulness of the
statements set forth in the application and shall endorse the findings thereon.
   (B)   The applicant shall furnish to the police such evidence as the
inspector may reasonably require in support of the statements set forth in the
application.
(1992 Code, § 486:09) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.044 PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Council member of the ward in which one proposed business would be
located may request a public hearing on the license application before the City
Council.
(1992 Code, § 486:10) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.045 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No licenses under this section will be issued to an applicant who is a
natural person, a partnership if such applicant has any general partner or
managing partner, a corporation or other organization if such applicant has any
manager, proprietor or agent in charge of the business to be licensed, if the
applicant:
   (A)   Is a minor at the time that the application is filed; or
   (B)   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by Minn. Stat. § 364.03, Subd. 2, as it may be amended
from time to time, and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient
rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties of a licensee under
this section as prescribed by Minn. Stat. § 364.03, Subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 486:11) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.046 BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a license will be issued, every applicant must furnish a $5,000
surety bond executed by a surety company authorized to do business in the
state, approved by the city. All bonds must be conditioned that the principal
will observe all laws in relation to pawnbrokers, and will conduct business in
conformity thereto, and that the principal will account for and deliver to any
person legally entitled any goods which have come into the principal’s hand
through the principal’s business as a pawnbroker or, in lieu thereof, will pay
the reasonable value in money to the person. The bond shall contain a provision
that no bond may be canceled, except upon 30 days’ written notice to the city,
which shall be served upon the City Administrator.
(1992 Code, § 486:12) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.047 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time of any reportable transaction other than renewals,
extensions or redemptions, every licensee must immediately record in English
the following information by using ink or other indelible medium on forms or in
a computerized record approved by the Police Department:
      (1)   A complete and accurate description of each item including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name or other identifying mark on such an item;
      (2)   The purchase price, amount of money loaned upon or pledged
therefor;
      (3)   The maturity date of the transaction and the amount due, including
monthly and annual interest rates and all pawn fees and charges;
      (4)   Date, time and place the item of property was received by the
licensee and the unique alpha and/or numeric transaction identifier that
distinguishes it from all other transactions in the licensee’s records;
      (5)   Full name, current residence address, current residence telephone
number, date of birth and accurate description of the person from whom the item
of the property was received, including: sex, height, weight, race, color of
eyes and color of hair;
      (6)   The identification number from any of the following forms of
identification of the person from whom the item was received:
         (a)   Current valid Minnesota driver’s license;
         (b)   Current valid Minnesota identification card; or
         (c)   Current valid driver’s license or other photo identification
card issued by another state or province of Canada.
      (7)   The signature of the person identified in the transaction;
      (8)   The licensee must also take a digitized color photograph and
digitize color video recordings of a quality acceptable to the Police
Department of:
         (a)   Each customer involved in a billable transaction; and
         (b)   Every item pawned or sold that does not have a unique serial or
identification number permanently engraved or affixed.
      (9)   The licensees must fulfill the color photograph requirements in
this section by submitting them as digital images, in a format specified by the
city, electronically cross-referenced to the reportable transaction they are
associated with. Notwithstanding the digital images may be captured from
required digitized video recordings, this provision does not alter or amend the
requirements in division (A)(8) above. All digitized photographs taken must be
at least two inches in length by two inches in width and must be maintained in
such a manner that the photograph can be readily matched and correlated with
all other records of the transaction to which they relate. Such photographs
must be available to the Chief of Police, or the Chief’s designee, upon
request. The major portion of the photograph must include an identifiable front
facial close-up of the person who pawned or sold the item. Items photographed
must be accurately depicted. The licensee must inform the person that he or she
is being photographed by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous
place in the premises. A digitized video photograph must also be taken and the
video camera must zoom in on the person pawning or selling the item so as to
include an identifiable close-up of that person’s face. Items photographed by
digitized video must be accurately depicted. Video photographs must be
electronically referenced by time and date so they can be readily matched and
correlated with all other records of the transaction to which they relate. The
licensee must inform the person that he or she is being videotaped orally and
by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous place on the premises.
The licensee must keep the exposed videotape for 12 months.
   (B)   For renewals, extensions and redemptions, the licensee shall provide
the original transaction identifier, the date of the current transaction and
the type of transaction.
   (C)   (1)   The records must at all reasonable times be open to inspection
by the Police Department.
      (2)   Data entries shall be retained for at least three years from the
date of transaction.
      (3)   Entries of required digital images shall be retained a minimum of
90 days.
(1992 Code, § 486:13) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003; Ord. 1400, passed 9-19-
2006)
§ 118.048 DAILY REPORTS TO POLICE.
   (A)   Effective no later than 60 days after the Police Department provides
licensees with the current version of the automated pawn system interchange
file specification, licensees must submit every reportable transaction to the
Police Department daily in the following manner.
      (1)   Licensees must provide to the Police Department all reportable
transaction information by transferring it from their computer to the automated
pawn system via modem using the current version of the automated pawn system
interchange file specification. All required records must be transmitted
completely and accurately after the close of business each day in accordance
with standards and procedures established by the city. Any transaction that
does not meet the automated pawn system interchange file specification must be
corrected and resubmitted the next business day. The licensee must display a
sign of sufficient size, in a conspicuous place in the premises, which informs
patrons that all transactions are reported to the Police Department daily.
      (2)   Licensees shall be charged for each billable transaction reported
to the Police Department.
      (3)   If a licensee is unable to successfully transfer the required
reports by modem, the licensee must provide the Police Department, upon
request, printed copies of all reportable transactions along with the video
tape(s) for that date, by noon the next business day.
      (4)   If the problem is determined to be in the licensee’s system and is
not corrected by the close of the first business day following the failure, the
licensee must continue to provide the required reports as detailed in this
section, and shall be charged a $50 reporting failure penalty, daily, until the
error is corrected.
      (5)   If the problem is determined to be outside the licensee’s system,
the licensee must continue to provide the required reports in this section, and
resubmit all such transactions via modem when the error is corrected.
      (6)   If a licensee is unable to capture, digitize or transmit the
photographs required in this section, the licensee must immediately take all
required photographs with a still camera, cross-reference the photographs to
the correct transaction, and make the pictures available to the Police
Department upon request.
      (7)   Regardless of the cause or origin of the technical problems that
prevented the licensee from uploading its reportable transactions, upon
correction of the problem, the licensee shall upload every reportable
transaction from every business day the problem had existed.
   (B)   Notwithstanding divisions (A)(2) through (A)(5) above, the Police
Department may, upon presentation of extenuating circumstances, delay the
implementation of the daily reporting penalty.
(1992 Code, § 486:14) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.049 RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every licensee must provide a receipt to the party identified in every
reportable transaction and must maintain a duplicate of that receipt for three
years.
   (B)   The receipt must include at least the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the licensed business;
      (2)   The date and time the item was received by the licensee;
      (3)   Whether the item was pawned or sold, or the nature of the
transaction;
      (4)   An accurate description of each item received including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name or other identifying mark on such an item;
      (5)   The signature or unique identifier of the licensee or employee that
conducted the transaction;
      (6)   The amount advanced or paid;
      (7)   The monthly and annual interest rates, including all pawn fees and
charges;
      (8)   The last regular day of business by which the item must be redeemed
by the pledger without risk that the item will be sold, and the amount
necessary to redeem the pawned item on that date;
      (9)   The full name, current residence address, current residence
telephone number and date of birth of the pledger or seller;
      (10)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the
following forms of identification of the pledger or seller:
         (a)   Current valid Minnesota driver’s license;
         (b)   Current valid Minnesota identification card; and
         (c)   Current valid photo driver’s license or identification card
issued by another state or province of Canada.
      (11)   Description of the pledger or seller including approximate sex,
height, weight, race, color of eyes and color of hair;
      (12)   The signature of the pledger or seller; and
      (13)   All printed statements as required by Minn. Stat. § 325J.04, Subd.
2, as it may be amended from time to time, or any other applicable statutes.
(1992 Code, § 486:15) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.050 REDEMPTION PERIOD; HOLDING PERIOD.
   (A)   (1)   Any person pledging, pawning or depositing an item for security
must have a minimum of 60 days from the date of that transaction to redeem the
item before it may be forfeited and sold. During the 60-day holding period,
items may not be removed from the licensed location, except as provided in §
118.056 of this chapter.
      (2)   Licensees are prohibited from redeeming any item to anyone other
than:
         (a)   The person to whom the receipt was issued;
         (b)   To any person identified in a written and notarized
authorization to redeem the property identified in the receipt;
         (c)   To a person identified in writing by the pledger at the time of
the initial transaction and signed by the pledger; or
         (d)   With approval of the Police License Inspector.
      (3)   Written authorization for release of property to persons other than
original pledger must be maintained along with original transaction record in
accordance with §
118.047 of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 486:16)
   (B)   Any item purchased or accepted in trade by a licensee must not be sold
or otherwise transferred for 30 days from the date of the transaction. An
individual may redeem an item 72 hours after the item was received on deposit,
excluding Sundays and legal holidays.
(1992 Code, § 486:17)
(Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.051 POLICE ORDER TO HOLD PROPERTY.
   (A)   Investigative hold. Whenever a law enforcement official from any
agency notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or
removed from the premises. The investigative hold shall be confirmed in writing
by the law enforcement agency within 72 hours and will remain in effect for 15
days from the date of initial notification, or until the investigative order is
canceled, or until an order to hold/confiscate is issued, pursuant to division
(B) below, whichever comes first.
   (B)   Order to hold. Whenever the Chief of Police, or the Chief’s designee,
notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or removed
from the licensed premises until authorized to be released by the Chief or the
Chief’s designee. The order to hold shall expire 90 days from the date it is
issued unless the Chief of Police or the Chief’s designee determines the hold
is still necessary and notifies the licensee in writing.
   (C)   Order to confiscate.
      (1)   If an item is identified as stolen or evidence in a criminal case,
the Chief or Chief’s designee may:
         (a)   Physically confiscate and remove it from the shop, pursuant to a
written order from the Chief or the Chief’s designee; or
         (b)   Place the item on hold or extend the hold, as provided in
division (B) above, and leave it in the shop.
      (2)   When an item is confiscated, the law enforcement officer doing so
shall provide identification upon request of the licensee, and shall provide
the licensee the name and phone number of the confiscating agency and
investigator, and the case number related to the confiscation.
      (3)   When an order to hold/confiscate is deemed no longer necessary by
the Chief of Police, the Chief or Chief’s designee shall notify the licensee.
(1992 Code, § 486:18) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.052 INSPECTION OF ITEMS.
   At all times during the terms of the license, the licensee must allow law
enforcement officials to enter the premises where the licensed business is
located, including all off-site storage facilities as authorized in §
118.056 of this chapter, during normal business hours, except in an emergency,
for the purpose of inspecting such premises and inspecting the items, ware and
merchandise and records therein to verify compliance with this section or other
applicable laws.
(1992 Code, § 486:19) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.053 LABEL REQUIRED.
   Licensees must attach a label to every item at the time it is pawned,
purchased or received in inventory from any reportable transaction. Permanently
recorded on this label must be the number or name that identifies the
transaction in the shop’s records, the transaction date, the name of the item
and the description or the model and serial number of the item as reported to
the Police Department, whichever is applicable, and the date the item is out of
pawn or can be sold, if applicable. Labels shall not be re-used.
(1992 Code, § 486:20) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.054 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years may pawn or sell or attempt to
pawn or sell goods with any licensee, nor may any licensee receive any goods
from a person under the age of 18 years.
   (B)   No licensee may receive any goods from a person of unsound mind or an
intoxicated person.
   (C)   No licensee may receive any goods, unless the seller presents
identification in the form of a valid driver’s license, a valid State of
Minnesota identification card or current valid photo driver’s license or
identification card issued by the state of residency of the person from whom
the item was received.
   (D)   No licensee may receive any item of property that possesses an altered
or obliterated serial number or operation identification number or any item of
property that has had its serial number removed.
   (E)   No person may pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave or deposit any
article of property not his or her own; nor shall any person pawn, pledge,
sell, consign, leave or deposit the property of another, whether with
permission or without; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave
or deposit any article of property in which another has a security interest.
   (F)   No person seeking to pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave or deposit any
article of property with any licensee shall give a false or fictitious name or
date of birth; nor give a false or out of date address of residence or
telephone number; nor present a false or altered identification or the
identification of another to any licensee.
(1992 Code, § 486:21) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.055 DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Any license under this section may be denied, suspended or revoked for one
or more of the following reasons:
   (A)   The proposed use does not comply with any applicable zoning code;
   (B)   The proposed use does not comply with any health, building, building
maintenance or other provisions of this code of ordinances or state law;
   (C)   The applicant or licensee has failed to comply with one or more
provisions of this section;
   (D)   The applicant is not a citizen of the United States or a resident
alien, or upon whom it is impractical or impossible to conduct a background or
financial investigation due to the unavailability of information;
   (E)   Fraud, misrepresentation or bribery in securing or renewing a license;
   (F)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the application
and investigation for, or in the course of, the applicant’s business;
   (G)   Violation within the preceding five years, of any law relating to
theft, damage or trespass to property, sale of a controlled substance or
operation of a business; and/or
   (H)   The owner of the premises licensed or to be licensed would not qualify
for a license under the terms of this section.
(1992 Code, § 486:22) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 118.056 BUSINESS AT ONLY ONE PLACE.
   A license under this section authorizes the licensee to carry on its
business only at the permanent place of business designated in the license.
However, upon written request, the Police License Inspector may approve an off-
site locked and secured storage facility. The licensee shall permit inspection
of the facility in accordance with §
118.052 of this chapter. All provisions of this section regarding record
keeping and reporting apply to the facility and its contents. Property shall be
stored in compliance with all federal, state, county and municipal laws,
statutes, regulations and ordinances. The licensee must either own the building
in which the business is conducted, and any approved off-site storage facility,
or have a lease on the business premises that extends for more than six months.
(1992 Code, § 486:23) (Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003)
SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
§ 118.070 DEFINITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NON-COMMERCIAL DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCATE. A person who goes door-to-door for
the primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social or other
ideological beliefs. For purpose of this subchapter, the term DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCATE shall fall under the term solicitor and include door-to-door
canvassing and pamphleteering intended for non-commercial purposes.
      PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-
to-business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property or services that the person is
carrying or otherwise transporting. For purpose of this subchapter, the term
PEDDLER shall have the same common meaning as the term HAWKER.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or similar association.
      PROFESSIONAL FUNDRAISER. Any person, including a corporation or other
entity, who, for compensation, performs any solicitations or other services for
a religious, political, social or other charitable organization.
      REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city administration
building is normally open for the purpose of conducting public business.
Holidays, defined by state law, shall not be considered REGULAR BUSINESS DAYS.
      SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-
to-business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. For purposes of this
subchapter, the term SOLICITOR shall have the same meaning as the term
CANVASSER.
      TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter or empty store front for
the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell,
and delivering goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property.
(1992 Code, § 488:00)
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the terms peddler, solicitor and
transient merchant shall not apply to:
      (1)   Nothing within this subchapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or
restrict non-commercial door-to-door advocates. Person engaging in non-
commercial door-to-door advocacy shall not be required to register as a
solicitor under §
118.075 of this chapter;
      (2)   Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods,
wares, products, merchandise or other personal property to a retail seller of
the items being sold by the wholesaler;
      (3)   Any person who makes initial contacts with other people for the
purpose of establishing or trying to establish a regular customer delivery
route for the delivery of perishable food and dairy products, such as baked
goods or milk;
      (4)   Any person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products
to the customers on his or her established delivery route;
      (5)   Any person making deliveries of newspapers, newsletters or other
similar publications on an established customer delivery route, when attempting
to establish a regular delivery route or when publications are delivered to the
community at large;
      (6)   Any person conducting the type of sale commonly known as garage
sales, rummage sales or estate sales;
      (7)   Any person participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or
flea market;
      (8)   Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer;
and
      (9)   Any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale.
   (C)   Exemption from these definitions shall not, for the scope of this
subchapter, excuse any person from complying with any other applicable
statutory provision or requirement provided by this or any other city
ordinance.
(1992 Code, § 488:05)
(Ord. 1463, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 118.071 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as may be required by
Minn. Stat. Ch. 329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county
issues a license for the activity.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
subchapter, no person shall conduct business within this jurisdiction as a
peddler or a transient merchant without first obtaining a city license.
Solicitors need not be licensed, but are required to register with the city
pursuant to §
118.075 of this chapter.
   (C)   Separate license. Each person engaged in the business of a peddler or
transient merchant shall secure a separate license. No license is
transferrable.
   (D)   Application. An application for a city license to conduct business as
a peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting a business operation within
the city. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the
City Council and available from the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. All
applications shall be signed by the applicant in the presence of a notary
public. All applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s full legal name;
      (2)   Any and all other names under which the applicant has or does
conduct business or to which the applicant will officially answer to;
      (3)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (4)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, any distinguishing marks or features and the like);
      (5)   A copy of the applicant’s driver’s license, including the
applicant’s photograph, and driver’s license number or other acceptable form of
identification;
      (6)   An informed consent form signed by the applicant in the presence of
a notary public authorizing the State Bureau of Criminal Apprehension to
disclose all criminal history record information relating to the applicant to
the city for the purposes of applying for a license under this subchapter;
      (7)   Telephone number of the applicant’s permanent residence;
      (8)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or an
agent;
      (9)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business, if any
exists;
      (10)   Any and all business-related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines;
      (11)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (12)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (13)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business.
If the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or she
will be conducting business within the city, with a maximum of 14 consecutive
days;
      (14)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up his or her business;
      (15)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
with the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor for
violating any federal or state statute or any local ordinance, other than minor
traffic offenses;
      (16)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (17)   Proof of any required county license;
      (18)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any location to be used by a transient merchant;
      (19)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (20)   Any and all additional information as may be requested and deemed
necessary by the City Council; and
      (21)   The license plate number, registration information, vehicle
identification number (VIN) and physical description for any vehicle to be used
in conjunction with the licensed business operation.
   (E)   Fee. All applications for a license under this subchapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the city licensing fee schedule
ordinance, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (F)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the application and payment of the license
fee, the City Clerk- Treasurer will determine if the application is complete.
An application will be considered complete if all required information is
provided. If the City Clerk-Treasurer determines that the application is
incomplete, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall inform the applicant of the
required, necessary information that is missing. If the application is
complete, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall refer the applicant to the Chief of
Police who shall conduct an investigation, including background checks,
including a criminal history background investigation, necessary to verify the
information provided with the application. Unless there is an unforeseen delay
in receiving the necessary background information, the City Clerk- Treasurer
must issue the license within 14 regular business days after receiving a
completed application unless grounds exist for denying the license application
under §
118.072(B) of this chapter, in which case the Clerk-Treasurer shall deny the
application. If the application is denied, the applicant must be notified in
writing of the decision and the reason for the denial. The applicant may appeal
the denial by delivering to the City Clerk-Treasurer a written request for a
public hearing which shall be had before the City Council or by a committee of
the Council designated by the Council President. A public hearing shall be held
within 30 days of the date of the request for hearing. The applicant may appeal
the decision of the City Council following such public hearing by petitioning
the State Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
   (G)   Duration. An annual license granted under this subchapter shall be
valid for one calendar year from the date of issuance. All other licenses
granted to peddlers and transient merchants under this subchapter shall be
valid only during the time period indicated on the license.
   (H)   Professional fundraisers not exempt. A professional fundraiser working
on behalf of an otherwise exempt group or person shall not be exempt from the
licensing requirements of this subchapter.
   (I)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to. take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated or raised on any farm.
      (2)   (a)   No license shall be required for any person going from house-
to-house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street or any other
type of place-to-place movement for the primary purpose of exercising that
person’s state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech,
freedom of the press, freedom of religion and the like.
         (b)   This exemption will not apply if the person’s exercise of
constitutional rights is merely incidental to what would properly be considered
a commercial activity.
(1992 Code, § 488:10) (Ord. 1463, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 118.072 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a peddler or transient merchant
license:
   (A)   The failure of an applicant to obtain and demonstrate proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
requested by the city as part of the application process;
   (C)   The failure of an applicant to sign the license application before a
notary public;
   (D)   The failure of an applicant to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (E)   A conviction within the past five years of the date of application for
any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation, or of any local
ordinance, which adversely reflects upon the person’s ability to conduct the
business for which the license is being sought in a professional, honest and
legal manner. Such violations shall include, but are not limited to, burglary,
theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices and any form of
actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (F)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to an
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant; and/or
   (G)   When an applicant has a bad business reputation. Evidence of a bad
business reputation shall include, but is not limited to, the existence of more
than three complaints against an applicant with the Better Business Bureau, the
Office of the Minnesota Attorney General or other state attorney general’s
office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or agency, within
the preceding 12 months, or three complaints filed with the city against an
applicant within the preceding five years.
(1992 Code, § 488:15) (Ord. 1463, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 118.073 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by an applicant on the application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Subsequent conviction for any offense for which the granting of the
license could have been denied under §
118.071(B) of this chapter;
      (4)   Engaging in any prohibited activity as provided under §
118.076 of this chapter; and/or
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this subchapter.
   (B)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
subchapter, the city shall provide a license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a public
hearing on the alleged violation. Such notice shall be delivered in person or
by mail to the permanent residential address listed on the license application,
or if no residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the
license application.
   (C)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Upon receiving the notice provided in division (B) above, the
licensee may request a public hearing by delivering a written request for
hearing to the City Clerk-Treasurer. If no such request for a hearing is
received by the City Clerk-Treasurer within ten days following the service of
the notice, the city may suspend or revoke the license. Written notice of the
suspension or revocation shall be mailed to the licensee. For the purpose of a
mailed notice, service shall be considered complete as of the date the notice
is placed in the mail. If a public hearing is requested within the stated time
frame, a hearing shall be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request
for the public hearing.
      (2)   Within five regular business days of the hearing, the City Council
shall notify the licensee of its decision.
   (D)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of any
person licensed under this subchapter, the City Council may immediately suspend
the person’s license and provide notice of the right to hold a subsequent
public hearing as prescribed in this section.
   (E)   Appeal. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked by the City
Council under this section shall have the right to appeal that decision by
petitioning the State Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
(1992 Code, § 488:20) (Ord. 1463, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 118.074 LICENSE NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued under this subchapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
(1992 Code, § 488:25) (Ord. 1463, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 118.075 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All solicitors and any person exempt from the licensing requirements
of this subchapter, under §
118.071 of this chapter, shall be required to register with the city prior to
engaging in those activities. Registration shall be made on the same form
required for a license application, but no fee shall be required. Immediately
upon completion of the registration form, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue
to the registrant a certificate of registration as proof of the registration.
Certificates of registration shall be non-transferrable.
   (B)   Individuals that will be engaging in non-commercial door-to-door
advocacy shall not be required to register.
(1992 Code, § 488:30) (Ord. 1463, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 118.076 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door
advocate or other person engaged in other similar activities shall conduct
business in any of the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or the items to be sold by
means of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, except doorbells,
crying out or by any other noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within any
residence or enclosed building;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian,
on any street, sidewalk, alleyway or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any specific individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 8:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m., or any time
on Sunday;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification when requested;
   (F)   Using the license or registration of another person;
   (G)   Making false or misleading statements about the products or services
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person;
   (H)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave;
   (I)   Otherwise conducting business in any manner that a reasonable person
would find obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive; and/or
   (J)   Transient merchants are prohibited from conducting business in any
residential district and shall comply with Ord. 827, as now adopted and
hereinafter amended.
(1992 Code, § 488:35) (Ord. 1463, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 118.077 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   (A)   Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no
peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate or
other person engaged in other similar activities shall enter onto the property
of another for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor,
transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate or similar activity
when the property is marked with a sign or placard:
      (1)   At least four inches long;
      (2)   At least four inches wide;
      (3)   With print of at least 48 point in size; and
      (4)   Stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors Transient Merchants or Door-to
Door Advocates”, “Peddlers, Solicitors Transient Merchants and Door-to Door
Advocates Prohibited” or other comparable statement.
   (B)   No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove, deface
or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section.
(1992 Code, § 488:40) (Ord. 1463, passed 1-4-2011) Penalty, see §
118.999
ICE CREAM VENDORS
§ 118.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ICE CREAM VENDING VEHICLE. Every motor vehicle in which ice cream,
popsicles, ice sherbets, frozen desserts of any kind or other confections are
carried for the purposes of selling at retail sale on the city streets.
   OPERATOR. Any person, firm or corporation who owns, leases, contracts or in
any other fashion permits a person to operate upon the city streets any ice
cream vending vehicle for the purpose of vending, or the person driving or
operating any such vehicle.
   VEND or VENDING. Offering ice cream, popsicles, ice sherbets, frozen
desserts or other confections for sale from a motor vehicle on the city
streets.
(1992 Code, § 406:01) (Ord. 1446, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 118.091 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No operator shall vend from an ice cream vending vehicle while
on the public streets of the city unless a license to do so is obtained from
the city.
      (2)   The fee for an annual license shall be in an amount as established
by the City Council from time to time. Upon payment of the fee and issuance of
the license, the operator shall be entitled to vend from one such vehicle for
the period of April 1 to March 31 of the following year. For each additional
individual vehicle utilized by an operator, an additional license fee shall be
established by the City Council and paid.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall issue an identification tag for each
vehicle licensed hereunder which shall be displayed by the operator on the left
rear portion of the vehicle.
(1992 Code, § 406:02) (Ord. 1446, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.092 INSURANCE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued hereunder to an operator unless a
certificate is furnished to the city showing that the operator is carrying the
following minimum amounts of insurance: public liability insurance, including
automobile liability insurance, in the amount of not less than $500,000 for
personal injury, death or property damage resulting from any one occurrence,
combined single limit.
   (B)   A certificate naming the city as an additional insured shall contain
an acknowledgment signed by the insurer that prior to modification,
cancellation or termination of the subject policy, written notice shall be sent
to the City Administrator by said insurance company.
(1992 Code, § 406:03) (Ord. 1446, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 118.093 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED FOR VEHICLE.
   In addition to other equipment required by law, every such vehicle shall be
equipped with:
   (A)   Signal lamps mounted at the same level and as high and as widely
spaced laterally as practicable. These lamps shall be of a size approved by the
City Police Department. These lamps shall display two alternately flashing
yellow lights on the front and two alternately flashing yellow lights on the
rear of the vehicle. Both lights must be visible at five hundred feet in normal
sunlight upon a straight level street;
   (B)   A convex mirror mounted on the front so the operator in his or her
normal seating position can see the area in front of the vehicle obscured by
the hood; and
   (C)   An audible alarm which is activated when the vehicle is in motion
backwards.
(1992 Code, § 406:04) (Ord. 1446, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.094 USE OF SPECIAL LIGHTS.
   The operator of an ice cream vending vehicle while stopped on a street for
the purpose of vending shall actuate the special flashing lights required by §
118.093 of this chapter. The lights shall not be used when the vehicle is in
motion, nor at any time the vehicle is stopped for a purpose other than
vending.
(1992 Code, § 406:05) (Ord. 1446, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.095 INSPECTION.
   Every ice cream vending vehicle shall be inspected by the Police Department
once each year prior to its use in the city for the purpose of determining
whether it complies with this subchapter and other state and local laws. In
addition, said vehicle shall be inspected by the State Health Officer to
determine compliance with any law relating to the sale of food products.
(1992 Code, § 406:06) (Ord. 1446, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 118.096 TRAINING OF OPERATORS.
   An applicant for a license shall provide a description with his or her
application for license of any operator training program, including documentary
material used in said program.
(1992 Code, § 406:07) (Ord. 1446, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 118.097 RESTRICTIONS ON VENDING ACTIVITY.
   (A)   An operator shall vend only when the ice cream vending vehicle is
lawfully stopped.
   (B)   An operator shall vend only from the side of the vehicle away from
moving traffic and as near as possible to the curb or side of the street.
   (C)   An operator shall not vend to any person standing in the roadway.
   (D)   An operator shall not stop on the left side of a one-way street to
vend.
   (E)   The operator of any ice cream vending vehicle which traverses the
streets of the city for the purpose of vending shall submit to the City
Engineer prior to April 1 of each year hereafter a detailed listing of the
streets on which vending is planned to occur. The City Engineer shall approve
or disapprove of the use of any such street or streets for that purpose within
30 days thereafter. In making said determination, the City Engineer shall take
into consideration factors such as the classification of the street, the amount
and character of the traffic carried thereon and any special hazards to the
public which may be created by permitting vending activity thereon. A street
not approved by the City Engineer shall not be utilized by said operator for
vending.
   (F)   The operator shall not drive on any permitted street more than one
time between 9:00 a.m. and noon. The operator shall not drive on any permitted
street more than one time between noon and 8:00 p.m.
   (G)   An operator shall not vend on a street within or immediately adjacent
to any park or public facility maintained by the Department of Park and
Recreation, nor in the Central Business District of the city.
   (H)   No vending activity shall occur between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 9:
00 a.m. the day following.
   (I)   An operator shall not vend in a single location for a period to exceed
15 minutes. For purposes of this division (I), a single location shall be
deemed to be a place 500 feet or more from the last sale.
(1992 Code, § 406:08) (Ord. 1446, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.098 SOUND AMPLIFICATION DEVICES.
   No operator, while vending, shall use a sound amplification device playing
music or emitting other sound, or a bell or horn, any of which is audible for a
distance of more than 500 feet from the vehicle. No such device shall be used
within 500 feet of any church or place of worship, hospital or courthouse.
(1992 Code, § 406:09) (Ord. 1446, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.099 BACKING OF VEHICLE RESTRICTED.
   The operator of an ice cream vending vehicle shall not back up the same to
make or attempt a sale.
(1992 Code, § 406:10) (Ord. 1446, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
118.999
FOOD VENDING ON PUBLIC STREETS
§ 118.115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD VENDING VEHICLE. Every motor vehicle in which foods of any kind are
carried for the purposes of selling at retail sale on the city streets or other
public right-of-way.
   OPERATOR. Any person, firm or corporation who owns, leases, contracts or in
any other fashion permits a person to operate upon the city streets or other
public right-of-way any food vending vehicle for the purpose of vending, or the
person driving or operating any such vehicle.
   VEND or VENDING. Offering food for sale from a motor vehicle on the city
streets or other public right-of-way.
(1992 Code, § 496:05) (Ord. 1502, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 118.116 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No operator shall sell food from a food vending vehicle while on
the public streets or other public right-of-way within the city unless a
license to do so is obtained from the city. The fee for an annual license shall
be in the amount as duly established by the City Council from time to time and
shall entitle the operator to vend from one such vehicle for the period of
April 1 to March 31 of the following year. For each additional individual
vehicle utilized by an operator, an additional license fee shall be paid.
      (2)   The applicant must submit a written application on a form
prescribed by the city and include with its application:
         (a)   A copy of its current retail mobile food handler license issued
by the State Department of Health;
         (b)   Insurance or certificate for the insurance coverage required
under division (B) below;
         (c)   The vehicle inspection report required under §
118.119 of this chapter; and
         (d)   A list of the streets and locations where the applicant desires
to operate as required by §
118.121(E) of this chapter.
   (B)   The applicant or licensed operator of any food vending vehicle which
traverses the streets of the city for the purpose of vending shall submit to
the City Engineer prior to April 1 of each year hereafter a detailed listing of
the streets on which vending is planned to occur. The Chief of Police and the
City Engineer shall approve or disapprove of the use of any such street or
streets for that purpose within 30 days thereafter. In making said
determination, the Chief of Police and the City Engineer shall take into
consideration facts such as the classification of the street, the amount and
character of the traffic carried thereon and any special hazards to the public
which may be created by permitting vending activity thereon. A street not
approved by the Chief of Police and City Engineer shall not be utilized by said
operator for vending.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the application together with proof satisfactory to
the city that the applicant has met the other conditions required, the City
Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license for each vehicle licensed hereunder which
shall be displayed by the operator on the left rear portion of the vehicle.
(1992 Code, § 496:10) (Ord. 1502, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 118.117 INSURANCE.
   (A)   A vending cart permit is not effective until the applicant has filed
with the City Clerk-Treasurer evidence of insurance insuring the applicant
against liability imposed by law arising out of the ownership, maintenance or
operation of such vending cart in amounts of at least $500,000 for the injury
or death of one person, $1,500,000 for the injury or death of two or more
persons and $10,000 for damage to property. The city shall be named as an
additional named insured in the policy providing such insurance. Such policy
shall further provide that it may not be cancelled, except upon ten days’
written notice filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer. The applicant shall also
provide evidence of workers’ compensation insurance coverage to the City Clerk-
Treasurer if applicable. A vending cart permit is effective only if the
required insurance coverage is constantly maintained and evidence of its
continuance is on file with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The certificate shall designate the city as an additional insured and
shall contain an acknowledgment signed by the insurer that prior to
modification, cancellation or termination of the subject policy, written notice
shall first be sent to the City Clerk-Treasurer by said insurance company.
(1992 Code, § 496:15) (Ord. 1502, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 118.118 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED FOR VEHICLE.
   In addition to other equipment required by law, every such vehicle shall be
equipped with:
   (A)   A convex mirror mounted on the front so the operator can see the area
in front of the vehicle obscured by the hood; and
   (B)   An audible alarm which is activated when the vehicle is in motion
backwards.
(1992 Code, § 496:20) (Ord. 1502, passed 7-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.119 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Prior to the initial use and operation of a food vending vehicle, the
vehicle shall be thoroughly examined and inspected by a certified mechanic and
found to comply with all standards of safety prescribed by the laws of the
state and the city. An inspection report showing that a vehicle has met the
standards of safety prescribed by law must be presented to the City Clerk-
Treasurer at the time of license application.
   (B)   Every vehicle licensed pursuant to this subchapter shall be inspected
from time to time and at least annually by a certified mechanic to ensure the
continued maintenance of safe operating conditions. The operation of any
vehicle which fails to meet the standards of safety established by laws shall
be discontinued until such time as the deficiency is eliminated.
   (C)   In addition, the vehicle shall be inspected by the County Health
Officer annually if the vendor intends to sell other than pre-packaged food
products and shall display the same on the back of the vehicle on the left side
so as to be visible to customers and city officials.
(1992 Code, § 496:30) (Ord. 1502, passed 7-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.120 TRAINING OF OPERATORS.
   An applicant for a license shall provide a description with his or her
application for license of its operator training program, including documentary
material used in said program.
(1992 Code, § 496:35) (Ord. 1502, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 118.121 RESTRICTIONS ON VENDING ACTIVITY.
   (A)   An operator shall vend only when the food vending vehicle is lawfully
stopped.
   (B)   An operator shall vend only from the side of the vehicle away from
moving traffic and as near as possible to the curb or side of the street.
   (C)   An operator shall not vend to any person standing in the roadway.
   (D)   An operator shall not stop on the left side of a one-way street to
vend.
   (E)   An operator shall not vend at any of the following locations:
      (1)   On any street or other right-of-way within the Central Business
District of the City. For purposes of this subchapter, CENTRAL BUSINESS
DISTRICT is defined as follows: an area bounded on the south by Mill Street, on
the west by Oak Avenue, on the north by Front Street and on the east by Grove
Avenue, and including the area of said designated streets and the sidewalks
parallel thereto on both sides of the street;
      (2)   On a street within any park or other public facility or within 200
feet of Park Board property or other public facility unless the operator has
obtained a park permit or special events permit;
      (3)   Any location on a public street which is adjacent to a restaurant
located on the same street or within 100 feet of the property line closest to
the restaurant. This requirement may be waived if the application is submitted
with the written consent of the proprietor of the restaurant; and/or
      (4)   Within any residential district.
   (F)   No vending activity shall occur between sunset and sunrise the day
following.
   (G)   An operator shall not vend in a single location for a period to exceed
four hours. For purposes of this division (G), a SINGLE LOCATION shall be
deemed to be a place 500 feet or more from the last sale.
(1992 Code, § 496:40) (Ord. 1502, passed 7-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.122 PARKING.
   (A)   Parking on streets is permitted when in compliance with all
ordinances, regulations, parking zones and posted signage. Sales by the
licensee shall be made on the curbside only and the vehicle shall be parked
within one foot of the curb.
   (B)   Licensee is prohibited from reserving any parking space by blocking,
barricading, hooding, signing or in any other manner preventing another vehicle
from occupying the space.
   (C)   Food vending vehicles on private property are regulated by Ord. 827.
(1992 Code, § 496:45) (Ord. 1502, passed 7-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.123 SOUND AMPLIFICATION DEVICES.
   No operator while vending shall use a sound amplification device.
(1992 Code, § 496:50) (Ord. 1502, passed 7-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.124 BACKING OF VEHICLE RESTRICTED.
   The operator of a food vending vehicle shall not back the vehicle to make or
attempt to make a sale.
(1992 Code, § 496:55) (Ord. 1502, passed 7-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
118.015 through
118.021 of this chapter shall be guilty of a penal offense. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(1992 Code, § 485:35)
   (C)   A violation of §§
118.035 through
118.056 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Nothing in this division (C)
shall prohibit the city from pursuing other legal remedies, including
injunctive relief for any violation of §§
118.035 through
118.056 of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 486:24)
   (D)   Any individual found in violation of any provision of §§
118.070 through
118.077 of this chapter shall be a guilty of a penal offense.
(1992 Code, § 488:45)
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
118.090 through
118.099 of this chapter shall be guilty of a penal offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(1992 Code, § 406.11)
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
118.115 through
118.124 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(1992 Code, § 496:60)
(Ord. 1323, passed 7-15-2003; Ord. 1463, passed 1-4-2011)
CHAPTER 119: TAXICABS
Section
   
119.01   License required
   
119.02   Application
   
119.03   Fee and term
   
119.04   Taxi license tag; display
   
119.05   Insurance or bond requirements
   
119.06   Inspection of taxicabs
   
119.07   License revocation
   
119.08   Bus lines excluded
   
119.09   License issuance and display; vehicle marking
   
119.10   Rates
§ 119.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall carry or transport any person for hire by means of any
automobile or taxicab within the corporate limits of the city without first
obtaining a license so to do.
(1992 Code, § 491:00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 119.02 APPLICATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation wishing to obtain a license shall fill out
and file with the Clerk- Treasurer an application for such license on a form
provided by the Clerk-Treasurer for that purpose, which application shall state
the name and address of the licensee, the kind, model, number of engine and
serial number and year of manufacture of the automobile or taxicab to be used
in the business, and the period for which application is made, which
application shall be forthwith presented to the Council and, if approved by it,
then license shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1992 Code, § 491:05)
§ 119.03 FEE AND TERM.
   The license fee for each vehicle shall be in the amount duly established by
the Council from time to time. Each license shall expire on December 31.
(1992 Code, § 491:10) (Ord. 1417, passed 6-5-2007)
§ 119.04 TAXI LICENSE TAG; DISPLAY.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue for each vehicle so licensed a number on a
card or certificate, the numbers being assigned in the consecutive order of
issue of licenses, beginning with the number one, which number shall be placed
on the vehicle in full view of passengers, which shall be in the following
form:
 
CITY OF OWATONNA
Taxicab License
No. ____________
 
 
(1992 Code, § 491:15)
§ 119.05 INSURANCE OR BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   No license shall be issued for and no taxicab, automobile or similar vehicle
used for hire, shall be operated or used in or upon the streets of the city for
the purpose of carrying passengers for hire, and it shall be unlawful to so
operate such taxicab, unless there shall have been filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer a liability contract of insurance, issued to the owner of such
taxicab, which shall be on the form of the standard automobile liability
insurance policy in customary use, to be approved by the Council and issued by
an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, said policy to
include provisions naming the city as an additional insured, to secure payment,
in accordance with the provisions thereof, to any person, except employees of
the owner, for personal injuries to such persons and for any damage to
property, except property owned by, rented to, leased to, in charge of or
transported by the owner, other than baggage of passengers, caused by the
operation of such taxicab, in the amount of $300,000 combined single limit or
equivalent.
(1992 Code, § 491:20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 119.06 INSPECTION OF TAXICABS.
   No license shall be issued for any vehicle until said vehicle has been
inspected by a motor vehicle maintenance shop approved by the state and noted
defects corrected. Such inspection and approval must be received before initial
issue, before annual renewal and six months following initial issue or renewal.
(1992 Code, § 491:23)
§ 119.07 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   Any license granted under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked at
any time by the Council for cause, upon motion to that end, without return of
license fee.
(1992 Code, § 491:25)
§ 119.08 BUS LINES EXCLUDED.
   This chapter shall have no application to the bus lines operating between
the city and any other place.
(1992 Code, § 491:30)
§ 119.09 LICENSE ISSUANCE AND DISPLAY; VEHICLE MARKING.
   All licenses shall be issued for specific conveyances, except as otherwise
herein provided. License tags, including number and year for which issued,
shall be plainly visible from the front seat of the conveyance. Both sides of
every licensed taxicab, when in use, shall be plainly and permanently marked as
such with a painted sign or appurtenances showing the full or abbreviated name
of the licensed company.
(1992 Code, § 491:35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 119.10 RATES.
   Each applicant shall file with the City Clerk-Treasurer, before a taxicab
license is issued or renewed, a schedule of proposed maximum rates to be
charged by him or her during the licensed period for which the application is
made. The schedule of proposed maximum rates shall be posted in a conspicuous
place in the taxicab in full view of passengers riding therein. The applicant
may change rates by notifying the City Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(1992 Code, § 491:40)
CHAPTER 120: CHARITABLE GAMBLING
Section
   
120.01   Purpose and intent
   
120.02   Gambling as a privilege
   
120.03   Lawful gambling
   
120.04   Conflicts
   
120.05   Gambling prohibited unless city permit obtained
   
120.06   Filing of records and reports; access to records; inspections
   
120.07   Premises permits; limitations
   
120.08   Lease
   
120.09   Investigation and permit fee
   
120.10   City’s trade area
   
120.11   Contributors
 
   
120.99   Penalty
§ 120.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This chapter is enacted for the following purpose: to promote the health,
safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city by closely regulating
the conduct of lawful gambling.
(1992 Code, § 499:00) (Ord. 1216, passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 1235, passed 6-20-
2000; Ord. 1594, passed 8-20-2019)
§ 120.02 GAMBLING AS A PRIVILEGE.
   (A)   The City Council finds that lawful gambling is a nuisance-prone
activity and, as such, is subject to restrictive regulation.
   (B)   The Council further finds and declares that the ability to conduct
lawful gambling and participate in lawful gambling is a privilege rather than a
right.
(1992 Code, § 499:05) (Ord. 1216, passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 1235, passed 6-20-
2000; Ord. 1594, passed 8-20-2019)
§ 120.03 LAWFUL GAMBLING.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. Minn. Stat. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from
time to time, relating to charitable gambling and MCAR 7861, the administrative
rules adopted pursuant thereto, are adopted by reference.
   (B)   Board. “Board” is the State Gambling Control Board.
   (C)   Licenses. Charitable gambling licenses are issued by the State
Gambling Control Board. There are four classes of organization licenses:
      (1)   License required. An organization may conduct lawful gambling if it
has a license to conduct lawful gambling and complies with Minn. Stat. Ch. 349,
as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Issuance of gambling license. Licenses authorizing organization to
conduct lawful gambling may be issued by the board to organizations meeting
these qualifications if the board determines that the license is consistent
with the purpose of Minn. Stat. §§ 349.11 to 349.22, as it may be amended from
time to time, and meets all of these criteria:
         (a)   The organization has at least 15 members that are current
residents of the city;
         (b)   The physical site for the organization's headquarters or the
registered office of the organization is located within the city and has been
located within the city for at least two years immediately preceding
application for a license;
         (c)   The organization owns real property within the city and the
lawful gambling is conducted on the property owned by the organization within
the city; or
         (d)   The physical site where the organization regularly holds its
meetings and conducts its activities, other than lawful gambling and
fundraising, is within the city and has been located within the city for at
least two years immediately preceding application for a license.
(1992 Code, § 499:10) (Ord. 1216, passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 1235, passed 6-20-
2000; Ord 1594, passed 8-20-2019)
§ 120.04 CONFLICTS.
   The provisions of this chapter are additional restrictions placed on
gambling by the city. If this chapter conflicts with any of the laws or
regulations referred to in §
120.03(A) of this chapter, the more stringent shall apply.
(1992 Code, § 499:15) (Ord. 1216, passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 1235, passed 6-20-
2000; Ord. 1594, passed 8-20-2019)
§ 120.05 GAMBLING PROHIBITED UNLESS CITY PERMIT OBTAINED.
   No person, except an organization which is licensed by the state or has a
valid exemption permit from the state, and which also has a permit or approval
from the city, shall conduct lawful gambling within the city. Such city permits
shall be obtained each time an exemption permit is sought from the Board. All
permits required by this section or state statutes shall be prominently
displayed during the permit year at the premises licensed to conduct gambling.
(1992 Code, § 499:20) (Ord. 1216, passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 1235, passed 6-20-
2000; Ord. 1594, passed 8-20-2019) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.06 FILING OF RECORDS AND REPORTS; ACCESS TO RECORDS; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every organization permitted to conduct lawful gambling in the
city shall quarterly file with the city copy of reports filed to the state.
      (2)   These reports are due 30 days after the quarter ends.
   (B)   Unless the information is shown in the documents filed under division
(A) above, every organization not exempt from state licensing shall file an
additional report with the city proving compliance with the trade area spending
requirement imposed by this section. Such report shall be submitted annually on
or before June 30.
   (C)   A copy of any lease agreement between a non-profit organization and an
“on-sale” licensee shall be filed with the City Administrator with the premises
permit application. The information submitted to the city shall contain a copy
of the signed lease and a sketch showing the leased area; provided, however,
with respect to organizations owning their own building, a lease and sketch are
not required.
   (D)   All licensed or permitted gambling operations are deemed to have
consented to inspection of the licensed or permitted premises by the city.
   (E)   Authorized employees or agents of the city may inspect, at any
reasonable time without notice or search warrant, all records, including
gambling accounts and other bank records required by the Board to be maintained
and preserved.
(1992 Code, § 499:25) (Ord. 1216, passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 1235, passed 6-20-
2000; Ord. 1594, passed 8-20-2019)
§ 120.07 PREMISES PERMITS; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   An organization shall make application for a premises permit on
a form prescribed by the Board.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the pending application for a premises permit, the
City Council shall, within the time allowed by Minn. Stat. Ch. 349, as it may
be amended from time to time, or Board regulations, adopt a resolution either
approving or disapproving the application.
(1992 Code, § 499:30)
   (B)   (1)   Limitation on premises permits. No organization shall hold more
than five premises permits at “on-sale” licensed liquor establishments in the
city.
      (2)   “On-sale” liquor license establishment. No more than one lawful
gambling premises permit shall be approved for an “on-sale” licensed liquor
establishment in the city. If an “on-sale” liquor establishment is already the
subject of an existing premises permit, the city will not approve another
premises permit for the same location.
      (3)   Priority in approval process. It is anticipated that there may be
more than one organization applying for a premises permit at a single “on-sale”
liquor establishment. Therefore, the following criteria, in the order listed,
prioritizes and determines the approval for the one available premises permit.
         (a)   First, renewal applications will be preferred; an organization
renewing its premises permit at the “on-sale” liquor establishment will be
preferred over an organization that does not already have its premises permit
at the “on-sale” liquor establishment.
         (b)   Second, if there are two or more applications and if a renewal
application is not involved, then a local organization will be preferred over
an organization that is not a local organization. Because of the nuisance prone
nature of gambling compared to other licensing or permitting activities within
the city, the city prefers that the organization have a local connection so as
to facilitate investigation of applicants and the investigation and arrest of
any violators.
         (c)   Third, if no renewal is involved and if two or more non-local
organizations seek approval, the City Council will approve the organization
that applied first.
(1992 Code, § 499:35)
(Ord. 1216, passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 1235, passed 6-20-2000; Ord. 1594, passed
8-20-2019)
§ 120.08 LEASE.
   Lawful gambling at “on-sale” liquor or club license establishments shall be
conducted in compliance with the following regulations.
   (A)   “On-sale” establishments shall be limited to one licensed gambling
organization at any one time in the licensed premises and any rooms adjoining
the premises under the same management. No lease shall be made with one
organization while another lease is in effect for the same “on-sale”
establishment.
   (B)   Every agreement between a non-profit organization and an “on-sale”
premises for gambling shall be in the form of a written lease. The written
lease shall be the complete agreement between the parties, and there shall be
no unwritten terms or conditions. The lease specifically provides that the
lessee shall operate only after issuance of a premises permit and shall be
subject to the terms of this chapter.
   (C)   A lease agreement between a non-profit organization and an “on-sale”
establishment shall not provide for rental payments based on a percentage of
receipts or profits from lawful gambling. The maximum rental fee shall be
$1,000 per month.
   (D)   Except for mechanical dispensing devices, all gambling shall be
conducted from a booth, or other area properly segregated from the rest of the
licensed premises; except that, raffle tickets, paddlewheel tickets and
tipboards that offer only merchandise prizes may be sold within the permitted
premises. The physical layout of this area set aside for gambling shall be
subject to the approval of the Fire Chief.
   (E)   The gambling booth shall be constructed and maintained by the
organization licensed to conduct gambling, and shall be under the exclusive
control of that organization. The organization licensed to conduct gambling
shall prominently display its name at its gambling booth and shall indicate
that all profits from gambling are for the benefit of the organization.
   (F)   Except as stated in division (H) below, the organization licensed to
conduct gambling shall have exclusive control over all gambling devices,
gambling money and gambling records.
   (G)   At a site where the leased premises consists of an area on or behind a
bar at which alcoholic beverages are sold and employees of the lessor are
employed by the organization as pull-tab sellers at the site, pull-tabs and
tipboard tickets may be sold and redeemed by those employees at any place on or
behind the bar, but the tipboards and receptacles for pull-tabs and cash
drawers for lawful gambling receipts must be maintained only within the leased
premises. Employees of a lessor may not participate in lawful gambling on the
licensed premises.
   (H)   Neither the owner of the “on-sale” establishment, nor their employees,
shall have access to the interior of mechanical dispensing devices. They are
only permitted to redeem winning tickets and record such winners as required by
law and rule.
   (I)   Payments for redemption of winning pull tab tickets dispensed by
mechanical dispensing devices shall be made from funds provided by the “on-
sale” establishment, the “on-sale” establishment shall be reimbursed by the
lawful gambling organization for winning tickets redeemed by the “on-sale”
establishment, reimbursements shall be made as provided in the lease agreement.
   (J)   No gambling funds shall be commingled with funds of the “on-sale”
establishment.
   (K)   No food, drink or entertainment discounts or other promotions shall be
offered in conjunction with the sale of gambling devices or chances.
   (L)   The “on-sale” establishment shall allow the organization to conduct
gambling at any time during its lawful business hours, and shall prohibit
gambling at any time other than its lawful business hours.
   (M)   The “on-sale” licensee shall make no agreements with any gambling
equipment distributor or manufacturer requiring the use of his or her gambling
equipment or any other equipment or vending machines in the establishment. The
“on-sale” licensee shall not receive from any gambling equipment distributor or
manufacturer any money, gift or other thing of value.
   (N)   Divisions (D), (E), (F), (G), (H), and (I) above shall not apply when
the licensed gambling organization is also the holder of the “on-sale” license
for the establishment where the gambling is conducted.
   (O)   No employee or agent of the licensed organization or any employee or
agent of the “on-sale” establishment shall engage in lawful gambling at the
establishment where they are employed.
(1992 Code, § 499:40) (Ord. 1216, passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 1235, passed 6-20-
2000; Ord. 1594, passed 8-20-2019)Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.09 INVESTIGATION AND PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   All organizations which are exempt from state licensing requirements
and are applying for a permit to conduct gambling in the city shall not be
required to pay a permit fee to the city.
   (B)   Any organization applying for or renewing a premises permit shall not
be required to pay an investigation fee to the city.
   (C)   The city may assess an annual local investigation fee on: (1)
organizations applying for an initial premises permit; and (2) organizations
conducting lawful gambling at a site within the city’s jurisdiction in the
amount as provided in Minn. Stat. § 349.161, Subd. 8(2), as presently enacted
or hereafter amended.
(1992 Code, § 499:45) (Ord. 1216, passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 1235, passed 6-20-
2000; Ord. 1582, passed 6-5-2018; Ord. 1594, passed 8-20-2019)
§ 120.10 CITY’S TRADE AREA.
   For purposes of this chapter, CITY’S TRADE AREA means and includes all that
area within the boundaries of the county.
(1992 Code, § 499:50) (Ord. 1216, passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 1235, passed 6-20-
2000; Ord. 1594, passed 8-20-2019)
§ 120.11 CONTRIBUTORS.
   (A)   All state licensed organizations conducting lawful gambling within the
city shall expend or contribute 80% of their net profits on lawful purposes
within the city’s trade area. This section is limited to lawful purpose
expenditures of net profits derived from lawful gambling conducted at premises
within the city. Real estate taxes and assessments paid pursuant to Minn. Stat.
§ 349.12, Subd. 25(a), as it may be amended from time to time, on real property
located in the city shall be considered a lawful purpose expenditure in the
trade area.
   (B)   A lawful purpose within the city’s trade area means and includes an
entity located outside the city’s trade area which benefits residents within
the city’s trade area.
(1992 Code, § 499:55) (Ord. 1216, passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 1235, passed 6-20-
2000; Ord. 1594, passed 8-20-2019)
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A premises permit approved by the city or a bingo hall license
approved by the city, or a permit issued by the city to an entity exempt from
state licensing may be suspended or revoked for violations of the city code,
Minn. Stat. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time, or for failure to
meet the qualifications set forth in this chapter, or Minn. Stat. Ch. 349, as
it may be amended from time to time, or for failure to comply, for any reason,
with any provision, guaranty or claim made in the applicant’s original or
renewal license application to either the city or the state.
   (B)   If any organization violates this chapter or if any organization shall
fail to make any expenditures in the city’s trade area as required by §
120.11 of this chapter or fail to provide the city with reports as required by
§
120.06 of this chapter, such violation or failure shall be grounds for the city
to determine that the permit or approval for the organization be suspended,
revoked, denied or not renewed.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as defined by state
statute.
(1992 Code, § 499:60) (Ord. 1216, passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 1235, passed 6-20-
2000; Ord. 1594, passed 8-20-2019)
CHAPTER 121: MICROMOBILITY SHARING OPERATIONS
Section
   
121.01   Definitions
   
121.02   License agreement required
   
121.03   Control of right-of-way
   
121.04   Compliance with laws
   
121.05   Micromobility operator
   
121.06   Attachment of micromobility vehicles prohibited
   
121.07   Enforcement
   
121.08   Impounding authorized
   
121.09   Sale of impounded micromobility vehicles
§ 121.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMPOUNDMENT or IMPOUND. Removal of a micromobility vehicle to a storage
facility or designated impound location by the city or an authorized licensed
city contractor in response to authorization from a police officer, traffic
control agent, or other city employee who is designated by the Director of
Public Works to act under this section.
   LICENSE AGREEMENT or LICENSE. A written contract or agreement issued by the
City Administrator or their designee, with approval by the City Council.
   MICROMOBILITY SHARING or MICROMOBILITY SHARING OPERATION. Any rental or
lending service that:
      (1)   Allows riders to temporarily use micromobility vehicles available
from a fleet in exchange for a fee or other form of direct or indirect
compensation; and
      (2)   Promotes and provides for micromobility vehicle vending, renting,
or lending from locations on city-maintained right-of-way or other permitted
and designated city property.
   MICROMOBILITY VEHICLE. Shall include bicycles, electric-assisted bicycles,
motorized foot scooters, and any other transportation device identified as a
micromobility vehicle pursuant to City Council action.
(Ord. 1631, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 121.02 LICENSE AGREEMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, no person shall
engage in the business of micromobility sharing from city-maintained right-of-
way or other city property without a valid license agreement with the city.
   (B)   Any micromobility vehicle that is part of a micromobility sharing
operation not authorized by a license agreement under this section shall be
deemed an unpermitted micromobility vehicle. Any person in possession of an
unpermitted micromobility vehicle may ride such micromobility vehicle into and
within the city, subject to all applicable federal, state and municipal laws,
ordinances and regulations. Any unpermitted micromobility vehicle must be
attended by the same user at all times while on city-maintained right-of-way or
other city property. As used in this section, ATTENDED means a readily
identifiable user is located on or within five feet of the micromobility
vehicle.
   (C)   License fee. The licensee shall pay to the city an annual license fee
in an amount duly established by the City Council from time to time to offset
the city's administrative costs related to implementation and oversight of the
license agreement.
   (D)   Authorized representative. Licensee will appoint a local authorized
representative to oversee the licensee's business and discharge the duties and
responsibilities of the licensee required under the license agreement and this
chapter. Licensee will provide city the authorized representative's name, cell
phone number, landline number, email address, mailing address for the
licensee's operations and also emergency after hours contact information.
(Ord. 1631, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 121.03 CONTROL OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   License agreements issued pursuant to this chapter shall not operate so as
to transfer ownership or control of the public right-of-way to micromobility
sharing operators, or to any other party.
(Ord. 1631, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 121.04 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   Micromobility sharing operators and users shall comply with all applicable
federal, state, and municipal laws, ordinances, and regulations as now existing
and/or hereafter as they may be amended from time to time. The operation of a
micromobility vehicle upon a public street, alley, highway, sidewalk, or other
public property in the city shall be governed by the corresponding provisions
of M.S. Ch. 169.
(Ord. 1631, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 121.05 MICROMOBILITY OPERATOR.
   (A)   A micromobility operator shall not lease, rent, or otherwise make
available a micromobility to any person who is under 18 years of age or who
does not have a valid driver's license.
   (B)   Licensee agrees that it will either require or recommend the use of
helmets to all users of licensee's fleet.
(Ord. 1631, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 121.06 ATTACHMENT OF MICROMOBILITY VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   Micromobility vehicles that are part of any micromobility sharing operation
shall not, for any length of time, be secured, attached, or connected to a
bicycle rack, streetlight, sign pole, utility pole, or any other immovable
object with a lock unless expressly permitted under a valid license agreement.
(Ord. 1631, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 121.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Micromobility vehicles may be deemed to be part of a micromobility
sharing operation based on any of the following: marketing or advertising
associated with a business logo attached to the vehicle; marketing or
advertising associated with the overall appearance of the vehicle; the
existence of a locking mechanism that can be unlocked for a fee or other form
of direct or indirect compensation; or any other indicator that would lead a
reasonable person to believe that the vehicle is used for micromobility sharing
as defined in this section.
   (B)   Any micromobility vehicle deemed to be a part of a micromobility
sharing operation that is found illegally parked, or otherwise in violation of
this section or the terms of a valid city license agreement, shall be subject
to impoundment under this section.
   (C)   Any micromobility vehicle deemed to be a part of a micromobility
sharing operation that is left unattended on private property shall be subject
to impoundment under this section. Impoundment shall not occur unless and until
a qualifying request to remove the micromobility vehicle is made by the owner
or authorized representative of such property.
   (D)   In addition to any other remedy available at equity or law, failure to
comply with the provisions of this section, or with the terms of any license
agreement issued pursuant hereto, may result in impoundment as provided in this
section, license termination, suspension or cancellation, administrative fines,
restrictions, or other penalties as provided herein.
(Ord. 1631, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 121.08 IMPOUNDING AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Micromobility vehicles may be impounded by any traffic officer or duly
authorized city employee because:
      (1)   The micromobility vehicle was found improperly attached in
violation of §
121.06.
      (2)   The micromobility vehicle was found unattended and blocking traffic
or public infrastructure, or otherwise compromising public safety.
      (3)   The micromobility vehicle is part of a licensed micromobility
vehicle sharing operation and is found in violation of one or more provisions
of this chapter.
      (4)   The micromobility vehicle is found in violation of one or more of
the terms of a contract or license issued under §
121.02 herein.
   (B)   All micromobility vehicles found in violation of this chapter are
subject to impoundment without warning.
   (C)   Not more than 72 hours after impoundment of any micromobility vehicle,
or as soon thereafter as practicable, the city shall provide written notice to
the owner of the micromobility vehicle, as disclosed by readily identifiable
owner contact information attached to the micromobility vehicle. The notice
shall be sent by either electronic or U.S. mail. The notice shall contain the
full particulars of the impoundment and redemption process. If a micromobility
vehicle is redeemed prior to the submission of notice, or if the city is unable
to readily identify the owner, then notice need not be sent. Saturdays, Sundays
and city holidays are to be excluded from the calculation of the 72-hour
period.
   (D)   All micromobility vehicles impounded under this section shall be
subject to an impoundment fee, as duly established by the City Council from
time to time, that is sufficient to offset the city's costs of enforcement and
storage for each such micromobility vehicle.
(Ord. 1631, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 121.09 SALE OF IMPOUNDED MICROMOBILITY VEHICLES.
   Any micromobility vehicle lawfully coming in the possession of the city and
remaining unclaimed by the owner for a period of at least 30 days may be sold
according to the law.
(Ord. 1631, passed 4-5-2022)
CHAPTER 122: CANNABIS REGULATION
Section
   
122.01   Administration
   
122.02   Definitions
   
122.03   City’s delegation of registration authority to Steele County
   
122.04   Requirements of cannabis businesses
   
122.05   Temporary cannabis events
 
   
122.99   Penalty
§ 122.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Findings and purpose. The City Council makes the following legislative
findings:
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of Minn.
Stat. Ch. 342, which authorizes the City Council to protect the public health,
safety, welfare of the city’s residents by regulating cannabis businesses
within the legal boundaries of the city.
      (2)   The City Council finds and concludes that the proposed provisions
are appropriate and lawful land-use regulations for the city, that the proposed
amendments will promote the community’s interest in reasonable stability in
zoning for now and in the future, and that the proposed provisions are in the
public interest and for the public good.
   (B)   Authority and jurisdiction. The City Council has the authority to
adopt this chapter pursuant to:
      (1)   Minn. Stat. § 342.13(c), regarding the authority of a local unit of
government to adopt reasonable restrictions of the time, place, and manner of
the operation of a cannabis business provided that such restrictions do not
prohibit the establishment or operation of cannabis businesses;
      (2)   Minn. Stat. § 342.22, regarding the local registration and
enforcement requirements of state-licensed cannabis retail businesses and
lower-potency hemp edible retail businesses;
      (3)   Minn. Stat. § 152.0263, Subd. 5, regarding the use of cannabis in
public places; and
      (4)   Minn. Stat. § 462.357, regarding the authority of a local authority
to adopt zoning ordinances.
   (C)   This chapter shall be applicable within the legal boundaries of the
city.
   (D)   The city, by resolution, has delegated cannabis retail registration
authority and compliance check responsibility herein to Steele County pursuant
to Minn. Stat. § 342.22 and Steele County Ordinance 2024-42.
   (E)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   (F)   Enforcement. The City Administrator and Chief of Police and his or her
designees are responsible for the administration and enforcement of this
chapter, except as provided in §
122.03(C)(1). Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable
as defined by law. Violations of this chapter can occur regardless of whether
or not a permit is required for a regulated activity listed in this chapter.
(Ord. 1666, passed 12-3-2024) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and phrases contained in Minn.
Stat. § 342.01 and the rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts, shall
have the same meanings in this chapter.
   CANNABIS BUSINESSES. As defined in Minn. Stat. § 342.01, Subd. 14.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis plants
within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to mature
plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label immature
plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis businesses,
transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the same
premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES. A retail location and the retail location(s) of
mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, and lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
   CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
   DAY CARE FACILITY. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of
Human Services to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the
child’s own home for gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a
24-hour day.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under Minn. Stat. § 342.01, Subd. 50.
   OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as “OCM” in this chapter.
   PARK FEATURE. An attraction within a public park that is regularly used by
minors, including, but not limited to, a playground or athletic field.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
public.
   PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business
license for applications who qualify under Minn. Stat. § 342.17.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   All public parks and trails, playgrounds and athletic fields,
Brooktree Golf Course, Steele County Fairgrounds, West Hills, Public Library,
Owatonna Public Utilities facilities and any other city- or county- or state-
owned property within the city;
      (2)   All school property of schools as defined in this section below as
“school”;
      (3)   Indoor area use by the general public, including, but not limited
to, restaurants, bars, any other food or liquor establishments, including decks
and other outdoor service areas;
      (4)   Hospitals, nursing homes, auditoriums, arenas, or gyms; and
      (5)   Meeting rooms; common areas of rental apartment buildings, and
other places of public accommodation.
      (6)   Exceptions to PUBLIC PLACE or PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A
PUBLIC PLACE or a PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION does not include the following:
         (a)   A private residence, including the individual’s curtilage or
yard;
         (b)   A private property, not generally accessible by the public,
unless the individual is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products on the property by the owner of the property; or
         (c)   On the premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit
on-site consumption.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under Minn. Stat. § 245.462,
Subd. 23.
   RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by Steele County to a
state-licensed cannabis retail business.
   SCHOOL.
      (1)   Public school as defined under Minn. Stat. § 120A.05;
      (2)   Nonpublic school that meets the reporting requirements under Minn.
Stat. § 120A.24;
      (3)   Charter school licensed by the Minnesota Department of Education;
or
      (4)   Post-secondary educational facilities, including any colleges,
universities, or technical schools.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing
cannabis flower, cannabis products, artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-
derived consumer products. SMOKING includes carrying or using an activated
electronic delivery device for human consumption through inhalation of aerosol
or vapor from the product.
   SPECIAL SERVICES. The exclusive allocation of city resources, including, but
not limited to, city personnel, equipment, rights-of-way, property or
facilities for use in conjunction with a specific event or activity, as
requested by the host or sponsor of the event, or as requested by or on behalf
of any person attending the event, or deemed necessary by city staff in order
to maintain public safety.
   STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota’s Office
of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
   TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENT. An event lasting no more than four days at which
cannabis products, cannabis flower, lower-potency hemp edibles, and hemp-
derived consumer products may be sold and consumed and for which the organizer
has a cannabis event organizer license issued by the Office of Cannabis
Management.
   TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENT ORGANIZER. An individual or an organization
licensed by the State of Minnesota to hold a temporary cannabis event, as
described in Minn. Stat. §§ 342.39 and 342.40.
(Ord. 1666, passed 12-3-2024)
§ 122.03 CITY’S DELEGATION OF REGISTRATION AUTHORITY TO STEELE COUNTY.
   (A)   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 342.22, and Steele County Ordinance 2024-42,
the city, by resolution, shall delegate to Steele County the city’s authority
to register cannabis and hemp businesses and its authority to conduct
compliance checks of said businesses within the city’s jurisdiction.
   (B)   No individual or entity may operate a state-licensed cannabis business
within the city without first obtaining an approved registration issued by the
county.
   (C)   In discharging its delegated authority, the county:
      (1)   Shall administer and enforce Steele County Ordinance 2024-42, Sec.
2 “Registration of Cannabis Businesses”;
      (2)   Shall conduct a preliminary compliance check prior to issuance of a
cannabis retail business registration to ensure compliance with local
ordinances, including local zoning ordinances and, if applicable, the state
fire code and building code;
      (3)   Shall conduct annual compliance checks at a minimum of one
compliance check per calendar year of every cannabis business with a retail
registration to assess if the business meets the age verification requirements
and other requirements under Minn. Stat. § 342.22, and provided in Steele
County Ordinance 2024-42; and
      (4)   Shall renew an annual registration of the state licensed cannabis
retail business at the same time OCM renews the cannabis retail businesses
license.
(Ord. 1666, passed 12-3-2024)
§ 122.04 REQUIREMENTS OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Minimum buffer requirements. The city shall prohibit the operation of
a cannabis business within:
      (1)   One thousand feet of any school, as measured in a straight line,
from the nearest boundary line of the cannabis business to the nearest boundary
line of the school.
      (2)   Five hundred feet, as measured in a straight line, from the nearest
boundary of the cannabis business to the nearest boundary line of the
following:
         (a)   Day care facility;
         (b)   Residential treatment facility; and
         (c)   Public parks and trails regularly used by minors, including
playgrounds and athletic fields and the Steele County Fairgrounds.
      (3)   The city shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis retail business
within 1,000 feet of another cannabis business.
      (4)   Per Minn. Stat. § 462.357 Subd. 1e, nothing herein shall prohibit
an active cannabis business or a cannabis business seeking a renewal
registration from continuing operation at the same site of a school, day care,
residential treatment facility, or public park regularly used by minors, moves
within the minimum buffer zone.
   (B)   Insurance. No individual or entity may operate a state-licensed
cannabis business within the city without first presenting a Certificate of
Insurance to the City Administrator’s Office as evidence of the following
coverages for the location which shall meet the following minimum limits of
liability:
      (1)   Commercial general liability (CGL):
         (a)   $1.5 million each occurrence;
         (b)   $3 million general aggregate; and
         (c)   $3 million products and completed operations aggregate (or
product liability).
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance:
         (a)   As required by Minnesota state law; and
         (b)   Employer’s liability insurance:
            1.   $500,000 per accident;
            2.   $500,000 disease policy limit; and
            3.   $500,000 disease each employee.
      (3)   Commercial auto insurance: $1 million combined single limit
including coverage for hired and non-owned vehicles.
   (C)   Zoning and land use.
      (1)   Cultivation. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cultivation are permitted in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   I-1 Light Industrial;
         (b)   I-2 Heavy Industrial.
      (2)   Cannabis manufacturer. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cannabis manufacturer are permitted in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   I-1 Light Industrial;
         (b)   I-2 Heavy Industrial.
      (3)   Hemp manufacturer. Businesses licensed or endorsed for low-potency
hemp edible manufacturers are permitted in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   I-1 Light Industrial;
         (b)   I-2 Heavy Industrial.
      (4)   Wholesale. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for wholesale
are permitted in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   I-1 Light Industrial;
         (b)   I-2 Heavy Industrial.
      (5)   Cannabis retail. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cannabis retail are permitted in the following zoning districts;
         (a)   B-2 Community Business District;
         (b)   B-3 Central Business District.
   (D)   Hours of operation. Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sale of
cannabis, cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products between the hours of:
      (1)   8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Monday-Saturday;
      (2)   10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Sunday.
   (E)   Advertising signs. Cannabis businesses are allowed to erect or place
signs on the exterior of the building or property of the business, as permitted
by
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1666, passed 12-3-2024)
§ 122.05 TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. Any person or organization desiring to hold a
temporary cannabis event in the city must first:
      (1)   Be licensed by the state as a temporary cannabis event organizer;
and
      (2)   Obtain a temporary cannabis event permit from the city.
   (B)   Temporary cannabis events are prohibited in residential districts.
   (C)   Temporary cannabis events must comply with the buffer requirements
described in §
122.04.
   (D)   Temporary cannabis events must comply with all requirements detailed
in Minn. Stat. § 342.40. The application shall include a detailed plan
addressing the requirements of Minn. Stat. § 342.40, Subds. 3 through 8.
   (E)   Permit application.
      (1)   Form. Application for a permit to hold a temporary cannabis event
must be made in writing and must contain a statement made upon oath or
affirmation that the statements contained therein are true and correct to the
best knowledge of the applicant and must be signed and sworn to or affirmed by
the temporary cannabis event organizer. The application must contain and
disclose the following:
         (a)   Applicant name, address, phone number;
         (b)   A list of all cannabis business, medical cannabis business, or
hemp business licenses, as those terms are defined by Minn. Stat. § 342.01,
held by the applicant;
         (c)   Date(s) of proposed temporary cannabis event;
         (d)   Duration of temporary cannabis event, including beginning and
ending times;
         (e)   Address of proposed temporary cannabis event;
         (f)   Name of property owner, if different from applicant, together
with the signature of the property owners on the application beneath the
statement: “The undersigned consents to the use of his/her/their property for
the event described above”;
         (g)   A complete copy of the cannabis event license application,
submitted to the Office of Cannabis Management pursuant to Minn. Stat. §
342.39, Subd. 2; and
         (h)   Type and description of the temporary cannabis event, including:
            1.   Whether the general public will be permitted to attend, and
estimated number of persons to attend;
            2.   Any public health plans, including supplying water to the
site, solid waste collection and provision of toilet facilities, if applicable;
            3.   Any fire prevention and emergency medical services plans, if
applicable;
            4.   Security plans;
            5.   The admission fee, donation, or other consideration to be
charged or requested for admission, if applicable;
            6.   Whether food or alcohol will be served or sold at the event;
            7.   A detailed description of all public rights-of-way and private
streets for which the applicant requests the city to restrict or alter normal
parking, vehicular traffic or pedestrian traffic patterns, the nature of such
restrictions or alterations, and the basis;
            8.   A description of any services, city personnel, city equipment
and city property which the applicant requests the city to provide, including
the applicant’s estimate of the number and type needed, and the basis on which
the estimate is made. However, the city retains sole discretion to determine
the number and type of services required for the event and to decide whether to
grant such request;
            9.   Whether any sound amplification or public address system will
be used or if there will be any playing of any music or musical instruments;
            10.   A statement signed by the applicant agreeing to pay all fees
and meet all other requirements of this section;
            11.   Applicant signature and property owner’s signature, if
different from applicant; and
            12.    Any other information requested by the city, acting through
its City Administrator or Chief of Police, deemed reasonably necessary in order
to determine the nature of the temporary cannabis event and the extent of any
special services required.
      (2)   Time for filing. A temporary cannabis event permit application must
be filed with the city at least 30 days in advance of the date in which the
temporary cannabis event is to occur.
      (3)   Permit fee. An applicant for a temporary cannabis event permit must
pay a nonrefundable permit fee in the amount established by the city’s fee
ordinance.
   (F)   Application review.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a temporary cannabis event permit application, the
City Administrator, or their designee, shall be responsible for promptly
processing the application, including conferring with city staff and the
applicant as necessary to implement the provisions of this section, and, when
required by this section, forwarding the processed application to the City
Council with a recommendation to approve, approve with conditions or
modifications, or deny the temporary cannabis event permit application.
      (2)   Special services. The City Administrator shall work with city staff
to determine whether special services may be necessary, and the cost for such
special services.
      (3)   Review. When a temporary cannabis event will not require any
special services, the City Administrator may review and approve the permit
application administratively. In cases where a temporary cannabis event
requires special services, the application will be presented to the City
Council for review.
      (4)   Permit denial. The city may deny an application for a temporary
cannabis event permit if it determines from a consideration of the application
or other pertinent information, that:
         (a)   The information contained in the application or supplemental
information requested from the applicant is false or nonexistent in any
material detail;
         (b)   The applicant fails to supplement the application after having
been notified by the city of additional information or documents or additional
permitting needed;
         (c)   The applicant fails to agree to abide or comply with all of the
conditions and terms of the temporary cannabis event permit, including payment
of all costs and expenses;
         (d)   The temporary cannabis event would substantially or
unnecessarily interfere with traffic in the city, would interfere with access
to the fire station or fire hydrants, or would interfere with access to
businesses or residences in the immediate vicinity of the event and there are
not sufficient city resources available at the time of the event to mitigate
the disruption;
         (e)   The temporary cannabis event is of the size or nature that
requires the diversion of so many law enforcement officers to properly police
the event, site and contiguous areas that allowing the temporary cannabis event
would unreasonably deny law enforcement protection to the remainder of the city
and its residents;
         (f)   The proposed date and time of the temporary cannabis event
conflicts with a previously scheduled event and there are not available at the
time of the proposed temporary cannabis event sufficient city resources to
provide services for both events without substantially or unnecessarily
interfering with police, fire, water, public works, or other services to the
city as a whole;
         (g)   The location of the temporary cannabis event will substantially
interfere with any construction or maintenance work scheduled to take place
upon or along public property or right-of-way;
         (h)   The temporary cannabis event would likely endanger the public
safety or health;
         (i)   The temporary cannabis event would substantially or
unnecessarily interfere with police, fire, water, public works, or other
services to the city as a whole and there are not available at the time of the
proposed event sufficient city resources to mitigate the disruption;
         (j)   The applicant fails to comply with the liability insurance
requirements or the applicant’s insurance lapses or is canceled; and/or
         (k)   The applicant has on prior occasions made material
misrepresentations regarding the nature and extent of special services required
for a temporary cannabis event in the city or has violated the terms of a prior
temporary cannabis event permit.
   (G)   Fees.
      (1)   Special services fee deposit. If any special services are to be
used during the temporary cannabis event, the applicant 8may be required to pay
a nonrefundable special services fee deposit at least ten business days before
the temporary cannabis event. The City Administrator shall determine the
special services fee deposit. It shall be based upon an estimate of special
services that are necessary as determined by the city’s department heads.
      (2)   User fee. Upon completion of the temporary cannabis event, the city
may prepare a detailed account of all special services provided for the
temporary cannabis event and, in such cases, will set the final user fee using
the rates, fees and charges established as provided in this section. The city
will then provide the applicant with a copy of the detailed account of the
special services and an invoice for the user fee, less the fee deposit. The
balance of the user fee will then become due and payable immediately upon its
receipt.
      (3)   Special services rates. The rates charged shall be set by the
city’s fee ordinance and set forth in the fee schedule.
   (H)   Indemnification and insurance.
      (1)   If the temporary cannabis event requires special services, prior to
the issuance of a temporary cannabis event permit, the permit applicant and
authorized officer of the sponsoring organization, if any, must sign an
agreement to indemnify, defend and hold the city, its officials, employees, and
agents harmless from any claim that arises in whole or in part out of the
temporary cannabis event, except any claims arising solely out of the negligent
acts or omissions of the city, its officials, employees and agents.
      (2)   Liability insurance required. The applicant must possess or obtain
liability insurance to protect against loss from liability imposed by law for
damages on account of bodily injury or property damage arising from the
temporary cannabis event. A certificate of insurance must be filed with the
city prior to issuance of the temporary cannabis event permit. The certificate
of insurance must name the city, its officials, employees and agents as
additional insureds. Insurance coverage must be maintained for the duration of
the temporary cannabis event. Any company hired or working on behalf of the
applicant or sponsor must also present the city with a certificate of insurance
naming the city, its officials, its employees, and agents as additional
insureds.
      (3)   Minimum limits. The insurance coverages and limits of liability
shall be as required in § 122.04(B), “Insurance”. If on-site consumption is
permitted at the temporary cannabis event, the policy must also include an
endorsement for such consumption. The city may require additional endorsements
depending upon the type of temporary cannabis event and the proposed
activities.
      (4)   Waiver or reduction of required limits. The city may waive or
reduce insurance requirements of this section under the following
circumstances:
         (a)   The applicant or officer of the sponsoring organization signs a
verified statement that the insurance coverage required by this section is
impossible to obtain; or
         (b)   The city determines that the insurance requirements are in
excess of the reasonable risk presented by the proposed temporary cannabis
event.
   (I)   Temporary cannabis event regulations.
      (1)   Location restrictions. Temporary cannabis events are prohibited:
         (a)   At, in or on any public place or a place of public
accommodation, unless allowed by the city. A public place means a public park,
ballparks or trails, public event centers or facilities, public street,
sidewalk or right-of-ways, alleys, boulevards, publicly owned parking lots, and
any other developed or undeveloped city-owned property; or
         (b)   If held outdoors, on property within 1,000 feet of a school.
      (2)   Hours restrictions. Temporary cannabis events shall only be held
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m.
      (3)   On-site consumption of cannabinoid products is permitted in an area
designated by the applicant and approved by the city. Access to areas where
consumption of adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products is allowed shall be
restricted to individuals who are at least 21 years of age, and the cannabis
event organizer shall ensure that consumption of adult-use cannabis flower,
adult-use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived
consumer products within a designated consumption area is not visible from any
public place.
      (4)   The temporary cannabis event must be in compliance with the city’s
nuisance ordinance at all times.
      (5)   All temporary cannabis events must follow all requirements of Minn.
Stat. §§ 342.01 et seq.
      (6)   Permit revocation. A temporary cannabis event permit may be revoked
by the City Administrator at any time for failure to comply with the provisions
of this section or Minn. Stat. §§ 342.01 et seq.
(Ord. 1666, passed 12-3-2024) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, is subject to a fine and imprisonment as
prescribed by state law. Each day each violation continues or exists
constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   Administrative fine. Any person who violates this chapter is subject
to administrative fines in an amount set in the city fee schedule. Each day
each violation continues or exists constitutes a separate offense.
   (C)   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall also be grounds for
revocation of the temporary cannabis event permit, denial of any future
application for a temporary cannabis event permit, and action against any city-
issued business license held by the temporary cannabis event organizer.
(Ord. 1666, passed 12-3-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS
      
133.   WEAPONS AND DANGEROUS DEVICES
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Tumultuous conduct
   
130.02   Loitering
   
130.03   Idling of engines in residential districts
   
130.04   Vehicles towed by police
   
130.05   False alarms of fire or need of assistance
   
130.06   Abandoned iceboxes and refrigerators
   
130.07   Disorderly conduct
   
130.08   Glue inhaling; sales regulated
   
130.09   Police order to disperse
   
130.10   Trespassing
   
130.11   Bomb threats
School Areas; Conduct
   
130.25   Defacement of school property
   
130.26   Breach of peace on school property
   
130.27   Offensive language and conduct
   
130.28   Improper conduct while school in session
   
130.29   Permission required for reentry
   
130.30   Loitering or lurking
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 TUMULTUOUS CONDUCT.
   No person shall disturb, tend to disturb, nor aid in disturbing, the peace
of others by violent, tumultuous, offensive or obstreperous conduct, or by loud
profane language. No person shall knowingly permit such conduct upon any
premises owned or possessed by him or her or under his or her control.
(1992 Code, § 900:00) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them. Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.03 IDLING OF ENGINES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   No person shall have or allow a motor vehicle engine to idle in residential
districts of the city, as defined in §
157.020, for longer than 15 minutes. No idling period shall be repeated at
shorter intervals than five hours.
(1992 Code, § 900:10) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 VEHICLES TOWED BY POLICE.
   Where any vehicle is parked or left unattended contrary to the provisions of
this title, any police officer of the city may cause such vehicle to be
removed, or removed and stored, and the cost of such moving and storage shall
be paid by the owner of such vehicle in addition to any fine set forth for
violation.
(1992 Code, § 900:15) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 FALSE ALARMS OF FIRE OR NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
   No person shall intentionally make, turn in or give a false alarm of fire,
or of need for police or ambulance assistance, or aid or abet in the commission
of such act.
(1992 Code, § 905:00) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 ABANDONED ICEBOXES AND REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   Inside opener. No person shall leave outside of any building or
dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or
discarded icebox, refrigerator or any other container of any kind which has an
air-tight door, or lock which may not be released for opening from the inside
of said icebox, refrigerator or container.
(1992 Code, § 920:00)
   (B)   Removal of lock. It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside
of any building or dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned,
unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or any other container of any kind
which has an air-tight snap-lock or other device thereon without first removing
the said snap-lock or doors from said icebox, refrigerator or container.
(1992 Code, § 920:05)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Whoever does any of the following in a public or private place, knowing, or
having reasonable grounds to know, that it will, or will tend to, alarm, anger
or disturb others or provoke an assault or breach of the peace is guilty of
disorderly conduct:
   (A)   Engages in brawling or fighting; and/or
   (B)   Engages in conduct of such nature as will affect the peace and quiet
of persons who may witness it or who may be disturbed or driven to resentment
by it, or which conduct is likely to annoy, disturb or arouse anger in others.
(1992 Code, § 940:00) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 GLUE INHALING; SALES REGULATED.
   (A)   Inhaling, breathing or drinking of certain substances prohibited. No
person shall inhale, breathe or drink, or be or become intoxicated by reason of
inhaling, breathing or drinking, any substance commonly known as glue,
adhesive, cement, mucilage, dope, solvents, lacquer, drugs, fingernail polish
and lacquer, nail polish remover or thinners of the above named substances, nor
any substance containing toluol, hexane, trichloroethylene, acetone, toluene,
ethyl acetate, methyl ethyl ketone, trichoroathane, isopropanol, methyl
isopropanol, methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl cellosolve acetate, cyclohexanone
or any other substance which contains ketones, aldehydes, organic acetates,
ether, chlorinated hydrocarbons or any other similar ingredient which releases
toxic vapors for the purpose of inducing symptoms of intoxication, elation,
excitement, confusion, dizziness, paralysis, irrational behavior or inducing
the balance, coordination or the audio, visual or mental processes to be
changed, distorted or disturbed.
(1992 Code, § 950:00)
   (B)   Purchase, sale or possession regulated. No person shall, for the
purpose of violating or aiding another to violate any provision of this
section, intentionally possess, buy, sell, transfer possession or receive
possession of any substances containing the intoxicating substances defined in
division (A) above.
(1992 Code, § 950:05)
   (C)   Self-service display prohibited. No retail establishment selling
products containing the intoxicating substances defined in division (A) above
shall sell them from a self-service display.
(1992 Code, § 950:10)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 POLICE ORDER TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand or
remain idle either alone or in consort with others in a public place in such
manner so as to violate the provisions of divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) below.
      (1)   No person shall obstruct any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk or any other public place or building by hindering or impeding or
tending to hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles,
traffic or pedestrians.
      (2)   No person shall commit, in or upon any public street, public
highway, public sidewalk or any other public place or building, any act or
thing which is an obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use
of property or with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or
facing or fronting on any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk
or any other public place or building, all of which prevents the free and
uninterrupted ingress, egress and regress therein, thereon and thereto.
   (B)   (1)   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions
enumerated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above, a police officer or any law
enforcement officer shall order that person to stop causing or committing such
conditions and to move on or disperse.
      (2)   Any person who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall be guilty
of a violation of this section.
(1992 Code, § 955:00) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   Trespassing prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall intentionally trespass on the premises of another
and, without claim of right, refuse to depart therefrom on demand of the lawful
possessor thereof or his or her agent.
      (2)   A demand to depart may be made as follows:
         (a)   Orally, or in writing, by the lawful possessor or the
possessor’s agent;
         (b)   By conspicuously posting at reasonable intervals, signs which
prohibit trespass on the affected premises; or
         (c)   By conspicuously posting at reasonable intervals, signs which
prohibit trespass on the affected premises during certain hours.
(1992 Code, § 980:00)
   (B)   No reentry. No person who has received a written demand to depart
pursuant to division (A) above shall reenter the lawful possessor’s premises
without written permission of the lawful possessor or the agent providing said
demand for a period of up to one year from the date of the written demand, as
provided herein.
(1992 Code, § 980:05)
(Ord. 1383, passed 9-6-2005; Ord. 1386, passed 11-1-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 BOMB THREATS.
   (A)   No person shall, as a hoax, communicate or cause to be communicated
the fact that a bomb or any other explosive device has been placed in any
building or in any location other than a building.
   (B)   No person shall, as a hoax, threaten to bomb any person, place or
building.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly permit any telephone or other means of
communication under his or her control to be used for any purposes prohibited
by this section.
   (D)   No person shall, as a hoax, place or cause to be placed in any
location any article, constructed or placed with intent to give the impression
that said article possesses explosive capability.
(1992 Code, § 440:00) Penalty, see §
130.99
SCHOOL AREAS; CONDUCT
§ 130.25 DEFACEMENT OF SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   No person shall mark with ink, paint, chalk or other substance, or post
handbills on, or in any other manner deface or injure, any school building or
structure used or usable for school purposes within the corporate limits of the
city, or mark, deface or injure fences, trees, laws or fixtures appurtenant to
or located on the site of such buildings, or post handbills on such fences,
trees or fixtures, or place a sign anywhere on any such site.
(1992 Code, § 960.00) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.26 BREACH OF PEACE ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   No person on any school grounds or abutting streets adjacent to any school
building or structure shall engage in, or prepare, attempt, offer or threaten
to engage in, or assist or conspire with another to engage in or congregate
because of, any riot, fight, brawl, tumultuous conduct, act of violence or any
other conduct which disturbs or tends to disturb the peace and quiet of
another.
(1992 Code, § 960.05) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.27 OFFENSIVE LANGUAGE AND CONDUCT.
   No person shall use offensive, obscene or abusive language or engage in
boisterous or noisy conduct tending reasonably to arouse anger, alarm or
resentment in others on any school grounds or abutting streets or in buildings
or structures of any such schools.
(1992 Code, § 960.10) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.28 IMPROPER CONDUCT WHILE SCHOOL IN SESSION.
   (A)   No person shall in any school room or in any building or on the
grounds adjacent to the same or abutting streets disturb or interrupt the peace
and good order of such school while in session.
   (B)   Any person not in immediate attendance in such school and being in
such building or upon the premises belonging thereto who shall conduct or
behave himself or herself improperly, or who, upon the request of a teacher of
such school or the person in charge thereof to leave said building or premises,
shall neglect or refuse to do so, shall be in violation of this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 960.15) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.29 PERMISSION REQUIRED FOR REENTRY.
   No person, having been ordered by a school official to leave a school and
having left said premises, shall reenter said school without the written
permission of the school principal or the school official who gave the order to
leave the school.
(1992 Code, § 960.20) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.30 LOITERING OR LURKING.
   No person shall loiter on any school grounds or abutting streets or in any
school building or structure, nor lurk, lie in wait or be concealed with intent
to do any mischief or to commit any crime or unlawful act thereon.
(1992 Code, § 960.25) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
130.06 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a penal offense. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(1992 Code, § 920:10)
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §
130.10 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both,
plus the cost of prosecution in either case.
(1992 Code, § 980:10)
(Ord. 1383, passed 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Injury to or removal of property
   
131.02   Scattering rubbish
   
131.03   Posting notices
   
131.04   Tampering with municipal property
   
131.05   Removal of earth
   
131.06   Public property damage prohibited
§ 131.01 INJURY TO OR REMOVAL OF PROPERTY.
   No person shall willfully, maliciously, wantonly, negligently or otherwise
injure, deface, destroy or remove real property or improvements thereto, or
moveable or personal property within the corporate limits of the city,
belonging to any unit of government or to any person without their consent.
(1992 Code, § 910:00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 SCATTERING RUBBISH.
   No person shall throw or deposit or scatter upon any sidewalk, alley,
street, bridge or public passageway, or upon any private property, any waste or
other material of any kind.
(1992 Code, § 910:00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 POSTING NOTICES.
   No person shall fasten in any way any showcard, poster or other advertising
device upon public or private property within the corporate limits of the city
unless legally authorized to do so.
(1992 Code, § 910:00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 TAMPERING WITH MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   No person shall tamper with, injure, deface, destroy or remove any sign,
notice, marker, fire alarm box, fire-plug, topographical survey monument or any
other personal property duly erected or placed by the city.
(1992 Code, § 910:00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 REMOVAL OF EARTH.
   No person shall move, disturb or take any earth, stone or other material
from any public street, alley, park or other public ground, except as
authorized by the City Engineer or Park and Recreation Superintendent.
(1992 Code, § 910:00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 PUBLIC PROPERTY DAMAGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall willfully or negligently cut, injure, mar, deface or
destroy any shade or ornamental tree, hedge, shrubbery, plant or flower
standing and growing in any street, alley, park, school ground, cemetery, jail
ground or other public place within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   No person shall willfully, carelessly or negligently cut, injure, mar
or deface any walk, sidewalk, other public property, in any alley, street,
park, school ground, cemetery or other public place within the corporate limits
of the city.
(1992 Code, § 910:05) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS
Section
Curfew
   
132.01   Curfew for minors
Social Host
   
132.15   Purpose and findings
   
132.16   Authority
   
132.17   Definitions
   
132.18   Prohibited acts
   
132.19   Exceptions
   
132.20   Enforcement
   
132.21   Effective date
 
   
132.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 132.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor's household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, play grounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment to refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor's
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor's presence at work.
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor's
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor.
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew.
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion.
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city's designated law enforcement provider about the minor's presence.
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city's designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (I)   Investigate affirmative defense before arrest. A law enforcement
officer must look into whether a minor has an affirmative defense before making
an arrest.
(Ord. 1526, passed 8-3-2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
SOCIAL HOST
§ 132.15 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   The City Council intends to discourage underage possession and
consumption of alcohol, even if done within the confines of a private
residence, and intends to hold persons criminally responsible who host events
or gatherings where persons under 21 years of age possess or consume alcohol
regardless of whether the person hosting the event or gathering supplied the
alcohol.
   (B)   The City Council finds that:
      (1)   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where
alcohol is possessed or consumed by persons under the age of 21 are harmful to
those persons and constitute a potential threat to public heath requiring
prevention or abatement;
      (2)   Prohibiting underage consumption serves to protect underage
persons, as well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol
consumption, such as alcohol overdose or alcohol-related traffic collisions;
      (3)   Alcohol is an addictive drug, which, if used irresponsibly, could
have drastic effects on those who use it as well as those who are affected by
the actions of an irresponsible user;
      (4)   Often, events or gatherings involving underage possession and
consumption occur outside the presence of parents. However, there are times
when the parent(s) is/are present and, condone the activity, and in some
circumstances provide the alcohol;
      (5)   Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to an underage person is a
crime, it is difficult to prove and an ordinance is necessary to help further
combat underage consumption; and
      (6)   A deterrent effect will be created by holding a person criminally
responsible for hosting an event or gathering where underage possession or
consumption occurs.
(Ord. 1456, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 132.16 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 145A.05, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1456, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 132.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl or spirits of wine, whiskey,
rum, brandy, gin or any other distilled spirits including dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer and every liquid or
solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and which contains 0.5% or
more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either alone
or when diluted, mixed or combined with other substances.
   EVENT or GATHERING. Any group of three or more persons who have assembled or
gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
   HOST. To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control or
permit a gathering or event.
   PARENT. Any person having legal or physical custody of a juvenile, or
parenting time:
      (1)   As natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian; and/or
      (3)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation or any
association of one or more individuals.
   RESIDENCE or PREMISES. Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
manufactured home, condominium, hotel or motel room, recreational vehicle or
camper, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting room, park or any other
place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied on a temporary or
permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or specifically for a party or
other social function, and whether owned, leased, rented or used with or
without permission or compensation.
   UNDERAGE PERSON. Any individual under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 1456, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 132.18 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person(s) to host or allow an event or
gathering at any residence, premises or on any other private or public property
where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present when the person knows or
reasonably should know that an underage person will or does consume any alcohol
or alcoholic beverage or possesses any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the
intent to consume it if the person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent
possession or consumption by the underage person(s).
   (B)   A person is criminally responsible for violating division (A) above if
the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels or conspires with or
otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
   (C)   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be present
at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
(Ord. 1456, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.19 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents or guardian while present at the parent or
guardian’s household.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to legally protected religious
observances.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor licenses
or 3.2% malt liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores or bottle club permit
holders who are regulated by Minn. Stat. § 340A.503, Subd. 1(a)(1), as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (D)   This subchapter does not apply to situations where underage persons
are lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course
and scope of employment.
(Ord. 1456, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 132.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter shall be enforced by any law enforcement officer.
(Ord. 1456, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 132.21 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and publication.
(Ord. 1456, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Social host. A violation of §§
132.15 through
132.21 of this chapter is a penal offense.
   (C)   Curfew. The following are the penalties for a violation of §
132.01:
      (1)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of §
130.03 may be adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional
alternatives set forth in Minn. Stat. § 260B.198, as it may be amended from
time to time.
      (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of §
130.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1456, passed 4-6-2010)
CHAPTER 133: WEAPONS AND DANGEROUS DEVICES
Section
   
133.01   Discharge of firearms
   
133.02   Exclusions
   
133.03   Bird and animal protection
   
133.04   Traps and the like prohibited
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   No person shall shoot or discharge any firearm, air rifle, sling shot or any
instrument used to expel, at high velocity, any pellets, darts, arrows or
projectiles of any kind within the corporate limits of the city, except as
specifically authorized in §
133.02 of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 975:00) (Ord. 1262, passed 8-7-2001) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them. Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 133.03 BIRD AND ANIMAL PROTECTION.
   No persons shall rob, injure or destroy any birds’ nests within the limits
of any park or parkway within the corporate limits of the city, nor aim or
discharge any air gun, sling shot or other weapon, or throw any stone or other
missile at any bird or bird’s nest or wild animal within a park or parkway
within the corporate limits of the city, nor in any manner capture or kill any
bird or wild animal therein.
(1992 Code, § 975:10) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 TRAPS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   No persons shall at any time set, lay, prepare or have in possession any
trap, snare, artificial light, net, bird line, ferret or other contrivance
whatever for the killing, capturing or taking of any bird or wild animal within
any park or parkway within the corporate limits of the city.
(1992 Code, § 975:15) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a penal offense and, upon conviction thereof, in addition to fine or
imprisonment or both, any weapons used or carried and the carcass of any bird
or animal taken shall be seized and impounded and destroyed or otherwise
disposed of on order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, § 975:25)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
      
152.   TRAILERS
      
153.   SIGNS
      
154.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
155.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
156.   AIRPORT ZONING
      
157.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Code
   
150.001   Code adopted by reference
   
150.002   Application, administration and enforcement
   
150.003   Permits and fees
   
150.004   Optional chapters
Fire Code
   
150.015   Fire Code adopted
   
150.016   Definitions
   
150.017   Enforcement
   
150.018   Permits required
   
150.019   Appeals
   
150.020   Sprinkler permit
   
150.021   Alarm permit
   
150.022   Licensed contractors
   
150.023   Fees; special Fire Department permit fees
   
150.024   Work without a permit
Construction Codes; Administration
   
150.035   Permits required
   
150.036   Application
   
150.037   Plans and specifications; information
   
150.038   Issuance of permit
   
150.039   Retention of plans
   
150.040   Validity of permit
   
150.041   Permit expiration
   
150.042   Suspension or revocation
   
150.043   Building permit fees
   
150.044   Plan check expiration
   
150.045   Inspections
   
150.046   Reinspections; fee
   
150.047   Special inspections
   
150.048   Certificate of occupancy
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.060   Definitions
   
150.061   Repair, vacations and demolitions; standards
   
150.062   Building Official; duties
   
150.063   Council and staff; duties
   
150.064   Emergency cases
   
150.065   Where owner absent from city
   
150.066   Administrative liability
   
150.067   Fire Department; duties
   
150.068   Police Department; duties
Moving Buildings
   
150.085   License required
   
150.086   Permit required
   
150.087   Application
   
150.088   Notice to utilities
   
150.089   Permit issuance and fee
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.001 CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Minnesota State Building Code, being MCAR 1300, as adopted by the
Commissioner of Administration pursuant to Minn. Stat. Ch. 326B.101 to
326B.194, as they may be amended from time to time, including all of the
amendments, rules and regulations established, adopted and published from time
to time by the State Commissioner of Administration, through the Building Codes
and Standards Division, is hereby adopted by reference with the exception of
the optional chapters, unless specifically adopted in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Minnesota State Building Code is hereby incorporated in this
subchapter as if fully set out herein.
(1992 Code, § 300) (Ord. 1322, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 150.002 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall be
in accordance with the Minnesota State Building Code. The Code shall be
enforced within the extraterritorial limits permitted by Minn. Stat. §
326B.121, as it may be amended from time to time, when so established by this
subchapter.
   (B)   The code enforcement agency of the city is identified as the Building
Inspection Department of the Community Development Department.
   (C)   This Code shall be enforced by the state certified Building Official
designated by the city to administer the Code as authorized in Minn. Stat. §
326B.133, as it may be amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 300) (Ord. 1322, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 150.003 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   The issuance of permits and collection of fees shall be as authorized
in Minn. Stat. § 326B.121, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   (1)   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the city in Ord. 1303.
      (2)   In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected by the city for all
permits issued for work governed by this code in accordance with Minn. Stat. §
326B.148, as it may be amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 300) (Ord. 1322, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 150.004 OPTIONAL CHAPTERS.
   (A)   The Minnesota State Building Code, established pursuant to Minn. Stat.
§§ 326B.101 to 326B.194, as they may be amended from time to time, allow the
city to adopt by reference and to enforce certain optional chapters of the most
current edition of the Minnesota State Building Code.
   (B)   The following optional chapters are hereby adopted and incorporated as
part of the Building Code for the city: none adopted.
(1992 Code, § 300) (Ord. 1322, passed 7-15-2003)
FIRE CODE
§ 150.015 FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   The Minnesota State Fire Code as adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to Minn. Stat. § 299F.011, 7-10-2007, and the International Fire Code, 2006
Edition, promulgated by the International Fire Code Institute, both as
presently enacted and as may be duly amended from time to time, are hereby
adopted as the fire code for the city, except as may be modified in this code.
The aforesaid fire code of the city shall be known as and may be cited as the
“Fire Code”. Any provision of the Fire Code to protect life or property in the
city which is more restrictive shall prevail over the provisions of the
Minnesota State Fire Code.
(1992 Code, § 304:00) (Ord. 1079, passed 10-5-1993; Ord. 1189, passed 8-4-1998;
Ord. 1264, passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 1325, passed 8-5-2003; Ord. 1513, passed 6-3-
2014)
§ 150.016 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Wherever the word “jurisdiction” is used in the Minnesota State Fire
Code, it shall mean the City of Owatonna.
   (B)   Whenever the term “this Code” is used in the Minnesota State Fire Code
or this subchapter, it shall mean the Code adopted pursuant to this subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 304:05) (Ord. 1079, passed 10-5-1993; Ord. 1189, passed 8-4-1998;
Ord. 1264, passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 1325, passed 8-5-2003)
§ 150.017 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department serving the city or the Chief’s
representatives are authorized to administer and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail such members of the Fire
Department as may be necessary to administer and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1992 Code, § 304:10) (Ord. 1079, passed 10-5-1993; Ord. 1189, passed 8-4-1998;
Ord. 1264, passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 1325, passed 8-5-2003)
§ 150.018 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be obtained from the Chief of the Fire Department prior to
engaging in any activities, operations, practices or functions listed hereafter
in this subchapter. The fees for such permits shall be in an amount established
by the City Council from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 304:15) (Ord. 1079, passed 10-5-1993; Ord. 1189, passed 8-4-1998;
Ord. 1264, passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 1325, passed 8-5-2003)
§ 150.019 APPEALS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 299F.011, Subd. 5a, as it may be amended
from time to time, there is hereby continued as heretofore established a Fire
Code Board of Appeals.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Appeals shall consist of the five members nominated
by the Mayor and confirmed and appointed by the City Council.
      (2)   The Chief of the Fire Department or the Chief’s designated
representative shall serve as an ex-officio member in addition to the five
members.
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Appeals shall consider issues related to
disapproval of an application for permit issuance, claims of misapplication or
misinterpretation of the Code or requests for variances from orders issued
under this code.
      (2)   Requests for appeals shall be made within 30 days of the date of
decision of the Chief or issuance of orders.
(1992 Code, § 304:20) (Ord. 1079, passed 10-5-1993; Ord. 1189, passed 8-4-1998;
Ord. 1264, passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 1325, passed 8-5-2003)
§ 150.020 SPRINKLER PERMIT.
   No person shall install or modify an automatic fire sprinkler or automatic
fire chemical extinguishing system within the city without first obtaining a
special Fire Department permit from the Fire Chief of the Fire Department or
his or her designee.
(1992 Code, § 304:40) (Ord. 1079, passed 10-5-1993; Ord. 1189, passed 8-4-1998;
Ord. 1264, passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 1325, passed 8-5-2003) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.021 ALARM PERMIT.
   No person shall install or modify an automatic fire alarm system within the
city without first obtaining a special Fire Department permit from the Fire
Chief of the Fire Department or his or her designee.
(1992 Code, § 304:45) (Ord. 1079, passed 10-5-1993; Ord. 1189, passed 8-4-1998;
Ord. 1264, passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 1325, passed 8-5-2003) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.022 LICENSED CONTRACTORS.
   All such installations or modifications shall be performed by contractors
properly licensed under Minn. Rules 7512 and 7105 and Minn. Stat. § 326.2421,
as it may be amended from time to time, or as may be required by any other
governmental agency. Proof of valid licensure or certification shall accompany
all applications for a permit.
(1992 Code, § 304:50) (Ord. 1079, passed 10-5-1993; Ord. 1189, passed 8-4-1998;
Ord. 1264, passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 1325, passed 8-5-2003)
§ 150.023 FEES; SPECIAL FIRE DEPARTMENT PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for each permit shall be charged to perform necessary plan reviews and
field inspections of affected installations. Permit fees shall be the actual
cost of the labor and components of the fire protection system multiplied by
0.02 or a minimum of $25. When applying for the permit, the contractor shall
pay an estimated fee based on the estimated cost of the project. If the actual
cost of the project is greater than the estimated cost, the contractor shall
pay any additional fee amount before the final acceptance test. It is the
contractor’s responsibility to submit all required surcharge fees due to the
Commissioner of Public Safety directly to the Commissioner.
(1992 Code, § 304:55) (Ord. 1079, passed 10-5-1993; Ord. 1189, passed 8-4-1998;
Ord. 1264, passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 1325, passed 8-5-2003)
§ 150.024 WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   When substantial work on installations subject to this subchapter is
determined to have been commenced without benefit of the required special Fire
Department permit and associated plan reviewal, a special inspection of the
site by a Fire Department inspector shall be made and determined by the Fire
Chief before a permit may be issued for that installation.
   (B)   A special inspection fee of $100 shall be charged in addition to the
permit fee.
(1992 Code, § 304:60) (Ord. 1079, passed 10-5-1993; Ord. 1189, passed 8-4-1998;
Ord. 1264, passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 1325, passed 8-5-2003)
CONSTRUCTION CODES; ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.035 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish any building or structure in
the city, or cause the same to be done, without first obtaining a separate
building permit for each such building or structure from the Building Official.
(1992 Code, § 301:00) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.036 APPLICATION.
   (A)   To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application
therefor in writing on a form furnished for that purpose.
   (B)   Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for
which application is made;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done, by lot,
block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications as required in §
150.037(A) of this chapter;
      (5)   State the valuation of the proposed work;
      (6)   Be signed by the permittee, or his or her authorized agent, who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority; and
      (7)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Building Official.
(1992 Code, § 301:05)
§ 150.037 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS; INFORMATION.
   (A)   (1)   With each application for a building permit, and when required
by the Building Official for enforcement of any provisions of applicable
construction codes, two sets of plans and specifications shall be submitted.
The Building Official may require plans and specifications to be prepared and
designed by an engineer or architect licensed by the state to practice as such.
      (2)   When authorized by the Building Official, plans and specifications
need not be submitted for the following:
         (a)   One-story buildings of Type V conventional woodstud construction
with an area not exceeding 600 square feet;
         (b)   Group M, Division 1, Occupancies of Type V conventional woodstud
construction; or
         (c)   Small and unimportant work.
(1992 Code, § 301:10)
   (B)   (1)   Plans and specifications shall be drawn to scale upon
substantial paper or cloth and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the
nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that it will conform
to the provisions of the Building Code and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations. The first sheet of each set of plans shall give the house and
street address of the work and the name and address of the owner and person who
prepared them. Plans shall include a plot plan showing the location of the
proposed building and of every existing building on the property. In lieu of
detailed specifications, the Building Official may approve references on the
plans to a specific section or part of applicable construction codes or other
ordinances or laws.
      (2)   Computations, stress diagrams and other data sufficient to show the
correctness of the plans, shall be submitted when required by the Building
Official. Plans for buildings more than two stories in height of other than
Group R, Division B, and Group M. Occupancies shall indicate how required
structural and fire-resistive integrity will be maintained where a penetration
will be made for electrical, mechanical, plumbing and communications conduits,
pipes and similar systems.
(1992 Code, § 301:15)
§ 150.038 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The application, plans and specifications filed by an applicant for a
permit shall be checked by the Building Official. Such plans may be reviewed by
other departments of the city to check compliance with the laws and ordinances
under their jurisdiction. If the Building Official is satisfied that the work
described in an application for permit and the plans filed therewith conform to
the requirements of applicable Building Codes and other pertinent laws and
ordinances, and that the required permit fee as duly set by the Council from
time to time has been paid, he or she shall issue a permit therefore to the
applicant.
   (B)   When the Building Official issues the permit, he or she shall endorse
in writing or stamp on both sets of plans and specifications “APPROVED”. Such
approved plans and specifications shall not be changed, modified or altered
without authorization from the Building Official, and all work shall be done in
accordance with the approved plans.
   (C)   The Building Official may issue a permit for the construction of part
of a building or structure before the entire plans and specifications for the
whole building or structure have been submitted or approved provided adequate
information and detailed statements have been filed complying with all
pertinent requirements of applicable construction codes. The holder of such
permit shall proceed at his or her own risk without assurance that the permit
for the entire building or structure will be granted.
(1992 Code, § 301:20)
§ 150.039 RETENTION OF PLANS.
   One set of approved plans, specifications and computations shall be retained
by the Building Official for a period of not less than 90 days from date of
completion of the work covered therein, and one set of approved plans and
specifications shall be returned to the applicant, which set shall be kept on
such building or work at all times during which the work authorized thereby is
in progress.
(1992 Code, § 301:25)
§ 150.040 VALIDITY OF PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans and
specifications shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of,
any violation of any of the provisions of applicable construction codes.
      (2)   No permit presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the
provisions of such codes shall be valid, except insofar as the work or use
which it authorized is lawful.
   (B)   The issuance of a permit based upon plans and specifications shall not
prevent the Building Official from thereafter requiring the correction of
errors in said plans and specifications or from preventing building operations
being carried on thereunder when in violation of applicable construction codes
or of any other ordinance of the city.
(1992 Code, § 301:30)
§ 150.041 PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Every permit issued by the Building Official under the provisions of
this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the building
or work authorized by such permits is not commenced within 120 days from the
date of such permit, or if the building or work authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of
120 days.
   (B)   Before such work can be recommenced a new permit shall be first
obtained so to do, and the fee therefor shall be one-half the amount required
for a new permit for such work; provided, no changes have been made or will be
made in the original plans and specifications for such work; and, provided
further that, such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year.
(1992 Code, § 301:35)
§ 150.042 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The Building Official may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued
under provisions of applicable construction codes whenever the permit is issued
in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of
any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of such codes.
(1992 Code, § 301:40)
§ 150.043 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for each building permit, for plan checking and other fees established
in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances shall be paid to the Building Official in the
amount duly established by the Council from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 301:45)
§ 150.044 PLAN CHECK EXPIRATION.
   Applications for which no permit is issued within 180 days following the
date of application shall expire by limitation and plans submitted for checking
may thereafter be returned to the applicant or destroyed by the Building
Official. The Building Official may extend the time for action by the applicant
for a period not exceeding 180 days upon written request by the applicant,
showing that circumstances beyond the control of the applicant have prevented
action from being taken. In order to renew action on an application after
expiration, the applicant shall resubmit plans and pay a new plan check fee.
(1992 Code, § 301:50)
§ 150.045 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   General. All construction or work for which a permit is required shall
be subject to inspection by the Building Official, and certain types of
construction shall have continuous inspection by special inspectors, as
specified in §
150.046(B) of this chapter. A survey of the lot may be required by the Building
Official to verify compliance of the structure with approved plans.
   (B)   Inspection record card. Work requiring a building permit shall not be
commenced until the permit holder or his or her agent shall have posted an
inspection record card in a conspicuous place on the front premises and in such
position as to allow the Building Official conveniently to make the required
entries thereon regarding inspection of the work. This card shall be maintained
in such position by the permit holder until the certificate of occupancy has
been issued.
   (C)   Approvals required. No work shall be done on any part of the building
or structure beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without
first obtaining the written approval of the Building Official. Such written
approval shall be given only after an inspection shall have been made of each
successive step in the construction as indicated by each of the inspections
required in division (D) below. There shall be a final inspection and approval
on all buildings when completed and ready for occupancy.
   (D)   Required inspections. Reinforcing steel or structural framework of any
part of the building or structure shall not be covered or concealed without
first obtaining the approval of the Building Official. The Building Official,
upon notification from the permit holder or his or her agent, shall make the
following inspections and shall either approve that portion of the construction
as completed or shall notify the permit holder or his or her agent wherein the
same fails to comply with applicable construction codes:
      (1)   Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated and
forms erected and when all materials for the foundation are delivered on the
job. Where concrete from a central mixing plant (commonly termed “transit
mixed”) is to be used, materials need not be on the job;
      (2)   Frame inspection. To be made after the roof, all framing, fire-
blocking and bracing are in place and all pipes, chimneys and vents are
complete;
      (3)   Lath and wallboard inspection. To be made after all lathing or
wallboard, or both, interior and exterior, is in place; but before any
plastering is applied or before wallboard joints and fasteners are taped and
finished; and
      (4)   Final inspection. To be made after building is completed and ready
for occupancy.
   (E)   Other inspections.
      (1)   In addition to the called inspections specified above, the Building
Official may make or require any other inspections of any construction work to
ascertain compliance with the provisions of applicable construction codes and
other laws which are enforced by the Building Department.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining compliance with applicable
construction codes, the Building Official may cause any structure to be
reinspected.
(1992 Code, § 301:60)
§ 150.046 REINSPECTIONS; FEE.
   (A)   The fee for each reinspection shall be in the amount duly established
by the Council from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 301:55)
   (B)   (1)   A reinspection fee may be assessed for each inspection or
reinspection when such portion of work for which inspection is called is not
complete or when corrections called for are not made.
      (2)   This division (B) is not to be interpreted as requiring
reinspection fees the first time a job is rejected for failure to comply with
the requirements of this Code, but as controlling the practice of calling for
inspections before the job is ready for such inspection or reinspection.
Reinspection fees may be assessed when the permit card is not properly posted
on the work site, the approved plans are not readily available to the inspector
or failure to provide access on the date for which inspection is requested, or
for deviating from plans requiring the approval of the Building Official.
      (3)   To obtain a reinspection, the applicant shall file an application
therefor in writing upon a form furnished for that purpose and pay the
reinspection fee in the amount duly established by the Council from time to
time.
      (4)   In instances where reinspection fees have been assessed, no
additional inspection of the work will be performed until the required fees
have been paid.
(1992 Code, § 301:65)
§ 150.047 SPECIAL INSPECTIONS.
   In addition to the inspections to be made as specified in §§
150.045 and
150.046(B) of this chapter, special inspections shall be made in accordance
with the State Building Code.
(1992 Code, § 301:70)
§ 150.048 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Use or occupancy. No building or structure in Groups A, E, I, H, B or
R, Division 1 and 3 occupancy, shall be used or occupied, and no change in the
existing occupancy classification of a building or structure or portion thereof
shall be made until the Building Official has issued a certificate of occupancy
therefore as provided herein.
   (B)   Change in use. Changes in the character or use of a building shall not
be made, except as specified in applicable construction codes.
   (C)   Certificate issued. After final inspection when it is found that the
building or structure complies with the provisions of this Code, the Building
Official shall issue a certificate of occupancy which shall contain the
following:
      (1)   The building permit number;
      (2)   The address of the building;
      (3)   The name and address of the owner;
      (4)   A description of that portion of the building for which the
certificate is issued; and
      (5)   A statement that the described portion of the building complies
with the requirements of this Code for group and division of occupancy and the
use for which the proposed occupancy is classified.
   (D)   Temporary certificate. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued by the Building Official for the use of a portion or portions of a
building or structure prior to the completion of the entire building or
structure.
   (E)   Posting. The certificate of occupancy shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises and shall not be removed, except by the Building
Official.
(1992 Code, § 301:75)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING or STRUCTURE. Includes underground structures, including walls,
cisterns, cesspools, septic tanks, basements and foundations, whether or not
there is any structure thereon, as well as any other structure or building.
(1992 Code, § 1015:05)
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building or structure, which has any or all of the
defects set forth below:
      (1)   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base;
      (2)   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show 33% or more of
damage of deterioration of the supporting member or members, or 50% of damage
or deterioration of the non-supporting enclosing or outside walls or covering;
      (3)   Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or
roofs, or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength
to be reasonably safe for the purposes used;
      (4)   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as
to have become dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general health and
welfare of the occupants or the people of the city;
      (5)   Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to
decent living that they are unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause
sickness or disease, so as to work injury to the health, morals, safety or
general welfare of those occupying or using the same;
      (6)   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are
inadequate to protect the health, morals, safety or general welfare of human
beings who live or may live therein;
      (7)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or
panic;
      (8)   Those, which have parts thereof, which are so attached that they
may or do injure members of the public or property;
      (9)   Those which, because of their condition, are unsafe, unsanitary or
dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of the people of the
city; and
      (10)   Those buildings existing in violation of any provision of any
ordinance of the city relating to the construction of buildings or the
installation therein or thereon of heating, plumbing or electrical equipment,
appliances or devices.
(1992 Code, § 1015:00)
§ 150.061 REPAIR, VACATIONS AND DEMOLITIONS; STANDARDS.
   The standards set forth below shall be followed in substance by the Building
Official and the Council in ordering repair, vacation or demolition.
   (A)   If the “dangerous” building can reasonably be repaired so that it will
no longer constitute a dangerous building under this subchapter, it shall be
ordered repaired.
   (B)   If the “dangerous” building is in such condition as to make it
dangerous to the health, safety or general welfare of its occupants, it shall
be ordered to be vacated.
   (C)   In any case where a “dangerous” building is 50% damaged or decayed, or
deteriorated from its original value or structure, it shall be demolished and,
in all cases where a “dangerous” building cannot be repaired so that it will no
longer exist as a dangerous building under the terms of this subchapter, it
shall be demolished.
(1992 Code, § 1015:15)
§ 150.062 BUILDING OFFICIAL; DUTIES.
   The Building Official shall perform the duties set forth below:
   (A)   Inspect semi-annually all public buildings, schools, halls, churches,
theaters, hotels, restaurants, tenements, commercial manufacturing or loft
buildings for the purpose of determining whether any conditions exist which
render any such place a dangerous building within the terms of this subchapter;
   (B)   Inspect any building, wall or structure about which complaints are
filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall or structure is or may
be existing in violation of this subchapter;
   (C)   Inspect any building, wall or structure reported as hereinafter
provided for by the Fire Department or Police Department as probably existing
in violation of the terms of this subchapter;
   (D)   (1)   Notify in writing by mail the owner, occupant, lessee,
mortgagee, agent and all other persons having an interest in said building as
shown by the land records of the County Recorder and Registrar of Titles, and
whose addresses can be ascertained, of any building found by him or her to be a
dangerous building within the standards set forth in §
150.060 of this chapter that:
         (a)   The owner must vacate or repair, or demolish said building in
accordance with the terms of the notice and this subchapter;
         (b)   The occupant or lessee must vacate said building, or may have it
repaired in accordance with the notice and remain in possession; and/or
         (c)   The mortgagee, agent or other person having an interest in said
building as shown by the land records, may, at his or her own risk, repair,
vacate or demolish said building or have such work or act done.
      (2)   Provided that, any person notified under this division (D) to
repair, vacate or demolish any building shall be given such reasonable time as
may be necessary to do, or have done, the work or act required by the notice
provided for herein.
   (E)   Set forth in the notice provided for in division (D) above, a
description of the building or structure deemed unsafe, a statement of the
particulars which made the building or structure a dangerous building, and an
order requiring the same to be put in such condition as to comply with the
terms of this subchapter within such length of time as is reasonable;
   (F)   Report to the Council any non-compliance with the notice provided for
in divisions (D) and (E) above;
   (G)   Appear at all hearings conducted by the Council and testify as to the
condition of dangerous buildings; and
   (H)   Place a notice on all dangerous buildings reading as follows:
      “This building has been found to be a dangerous building by the Building
Official. This notice is to remain on this building until it is repaired,
vacated or demolished in accordance with the notice which has been given the
owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent of this building, and all other
persons having an interest in said building, as shown by the land records of
the County Recorder. It is unlawful to remove this notice until such notice is
complied with.”
(1992 Code, § 1015:20)
§ 150.063 COUNCIL AND STAFF; DUTIES.
   Upon receipt of the reports required in the sections which follow, the
Council shall take action as follows.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a report of the Building Official as provided for in §
150.062 of this chapter, the Council may order notice sent to the owner,
occupant, mortgagee, lessee, agent and all other persons having an interest in
said building as shown by the land records of the County Recorder, and whose
addresses are ascertainable, to appear before the Council on the date specified
in the notice to show cause why the building or structure reported to be a
dangerous building should not be repaired, vacated or demolished in accordance
with the statement of particulars set forth in the Building Official’s notice
provided for herein in §
150.062(E) of this chapter.
   (B)   The Council shall hold a hearing a hear such testimony and argument as
the Building Official or the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee or any other
person having an interest in said building shall offer relative to the
dangerous building.
   (C)   After such hearing, the Council shall make written findings of fact
from the testimony offered pursuant to division (B) above as to whether or not
the building in question is a dangerous building within the terms of §
150.060 of this chapter.
   (D)   If such building is found to be a dangerous building, the Council
shall order the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee, agent and all other persons
having an interest in said building as shown by the land records of the County
Recorder to repair, vacate or demolish any building found to be a dangerous
building within the terms of this subchapter within such reasonable time as the
Council shall specify in said order, and providing that any person so notified
who is not an owner shall have the privilege of vacating or repairing said
dangerous building at his or her own risk to prevent the acquiring by the city
of a lien against the land upon which said dangerous building stands, as
provided in division (E) below.
   (E)   If the owner, occupant, mortgagee or lessee fails to comply with the
order provided for in division (D) above, within the time specified therein,
the Council shall cause such building or structure to be repaired, vacated or
demolished as the facts may warrant, under the standards hereinbefore provided
for in §
150.061 of this chapter, or direct the Building Official to proceed under any
abatement order he or she may have issued, and shall cause the costs of such
repair, vacation or demolition to be charged against the land on which the
building existed as a municipal lien, or cause such costs to be levied as a
special assessment against the land upon which the building stands or did stand
to the extent authorized by law, or to be recovered in a suit at law against
the owner; provided that, in cases where such procedure is desirable and any
decay thereby caused will not be dangerous to the health, morals, safety or
general welfare of the city, the Council shall direct the Attorney to take
legal action to abate the nuisance or to force the owner to make all necessary
repairs or demolish the building.
   (F)   If the Council shall determine that any dwelling or commercial
establishment is a dangerous building because there is no toilet in said
building within such reasonable time as the Council shall specify and, in
default thereof, the Council may provide for installation of such toilet and
charge the cost against the property as a special assessment.
(1992 Code, § 1015:25)
§ 150.064 EMERGENCY CASES.
   (A)   In cases where it reasonably appears that there is immediate danger to
the life or safety of any person unless a dangerous building, as defined
herein, is immediately repaired, vacated or demolished, the Building Official
shall report such facts to the Council and the Council may declare the
emergency and cause the immediate repair, vacation or demolition of such
dangerous building. The costs of such emergency repair, vacation or demolition
of such dangerous building shall be collected in the same manner provided in §
150.063(E) of this chapter.
   (B)   Where the Building Official finds and determines that inadequate
plumbing, heating or electrical systems or services to the premises constitute
an immediate danger to inhabitants of the premises, the Building Official is
authorized to order the immediate vacation of said premises, in writing, to the
owner or the occupants, and shall post the premises as provided in §
150.062(H) of this chapter, and the Building Official shall file his or her
order with the Council which shall consider the matter at its next regular
meeting consistent with the provisions of §
150.063 of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 1015:35)
§ 150.065 WHERE OWNER ABSENT FROM CITY.
   In cases, except emergency cases, where the owner, occupant, lessee or
mortgagee is absent from the city, all notices or orders provided for herein
shall be sent by mail to the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee and all other
persons having an interest in said building as shown by the land records of the
County Recorder to the last known address of each, and a copy of such notice
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the dangerous building to which it
relates. Such mailing and posting shall be deemed adequate service.
(1992 Code, § 1015:40)
§ 150.066 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent or employer of the city shall render himself or herself
personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties
under this subchapter. Any suit brought against any officer, agent or employee
of the city as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his or her duties under this subchapter shall be defended by the Attorney at
city expense until the final determination of the proceedings therein.
(1992 Code, § 1015:45)
§ 150.067 FIRE DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall make a report in writing to the
Building Official of all buildings or structures which are, may be or are
suspected to be dangerous buildings within the terms of this subchapter. Such
reports must be delivered to the Building Official within 24 hours of the
discovery of such buildings by any employee of the Fire Department.
(1992 Code, § 1015:50)
§ 150.068 POLICE DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
   The Chief of the Police Department shall make a report in writing to the
Building Official of any buildings or structures which are, may be or are
suspected to be dangerous buildings within the terms of this subchapter. Such
reports must be delivered to the Building Official within 24 hours of the
discovery of such buildings by any employee of the Police Department.
(1992 Code, § 1015:55)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.085 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or cause to be moved any
building or structure over and upon any street, alley or public ground in the
city without having previously obtained a license from the State Department of
Transportation.
(1992 Code, § 303:00) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.086 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or cause to be moved any
building or structure over or upon any street, alley or public ground in the
city without having previously obtained a permit for each such move and a
conditional use permit pursuant to the provisions of Ord. 827.
(1992 Code, § 303:05) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.087 APPLICATION.
   Before commencing any moving, the person in charge of such work shall make
an application in writing to the Building Official for a permit to use and
occupy the streets and alleys or other public grounds for such work, and shall
in such application state the route to be taken, the time when such work is to
be commenced, and also that he or she, by such work, will not do any damage to
such streets, public grounds or other property and present a currently valid
state building mover’s license.
(1992 Code, § 303:10)
§ 150.088 NOTICE TO UTILITIES.
   Prior to the granting of such permit, the applicant shall obtain written
approval for such move from the following and shall provide such approvals to
the Building Official as a part of such application:
   (A)   Any telephone, telegraph or electric company, or any other person or
corporation having wires strung over or across such streets;
   (B)   The City Engineer;
   (C)   The Chief of Police; and
   (D)   The Chief of the Fire Department.
(1992 Code, § 303:15)
§ 150.089 PERMIT ISSUANCE AND FEE.
   Upon receiving such application and approvals, and upon the payment of the
required permit fee in the amount duly established by the Council from time to
time, the Building Official, if he or she shall deem the same reasonable, shall
grant a permit to use the streets or public grounds designated in the
application for the purpose therein stated.
(1992 Code, § 303:20)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of the Building Code adopted in §§
150.001 through
150.004 of this chapter is a misdemeanor per Minn. Stat. § 16B.69, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 300)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
150.015 through
150.024 of this chapter, or builds in violation of any certificate or permit
issued under §§
150.015 through
150.024 of this chapter, or builds in violation of plans or detailed statement
of specifications submitted and approved under §§
150.015 through
150.024 of this chapter, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who fails
to timely comply with an order affirmed or modified by the City Council or by a
court of competent jurisdiction, for each violation shall severally be guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine and/or by imprisonment. The imposition of
one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time; and, when not otherwise
specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute
a separate offense.
      (2)   The city’s remedies hereunder are cumulative and the application of
the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of
prohibited conditions by a civil action seeking injunctive relief or other
lawful means in such case made and provided.
(1992 Code, § 304:25)
   (D)   (1)   The owner of any dangerous building and the occupant or lessee
in possession thereof, as set out in §§
150.060 through
150.068 of this chapter, who fails to comply with any notice or order to
vacate, demolish or repair said building in accordance with such notice or
order given as provided for in §§
150.060 through
150.068 of this chapter shall be guilty of a penal offense.
      (2)   Any person removing the notice provided for in §
150.062(H) of this chapter shall be guilty of a penal offense.
(1992 Code, § 1015:30)
(Ord. 1322, passed 7-15-2003; Ord. 1474, passed 7-19-2011)
CHAPTER 151: MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Title and purpose
   
151.02   Scope
   
151.03   Applicability
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   Inspections under the Minimum Housing Code
   
151.06   Space and occupancy standards
   
151.07   Exterior regulations
   
151.08   Electrical regulations
   
151.09   Exits
   
151.10   Fire alarm systems; sprinkler systems
   
151.11   Interior regulations
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the city minimum housing code, may be
cited as such, and will be referred to herein as this code.
   (B)   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards to safeguard
life, health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the use
and occupancy, location and maintenance of all residential buildings and
structures within this jurisdiction.
   (C)   The purpose of this code is not to create or otherwise establish or
designate any particular class or group of persons who will or should be
especially protected or benefited by this code.
   (D)   Objectives of this code include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Protect the character and stability of residential areas within the
city.
      (2)   Correct and prevent housing conditions that adversely affect, or
are likely to adversely affect life, safety, health and general welfare of
residents.
      (3)   Provide minimum standards for heating, sanitary equipment and for
light and ventilation necessary to protect the health and safety of building
occupants.
      (4)   Provide minimum standards for the maintenance of existing
residential buildings, thus preventing substandard housing and blight.
      (5)   Preserve the value of land and buildings throughout the city.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided by the terms of this chapter, any other
ordinance, regulation or law, the city, its employees or agents will not
intrude upon the accepted contractual relationships between landlord and
tenant. The city, its employees or agents will not intervene as an advocate of
either party.
(1992 Code, § 460:01) (Ord. 1315, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.02 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code establish minimum standards for maintaining
dwellings, accessory structures and premises. Such occupancies in existing
buildings may be continued as provided in the International Building Code, with
the following exceptions:
   (A)   Where such structures are found to be substandard as defined in this
code;
   (B)   Where present and future licensed rental properties are not in
compliance with this code or any other code, statute, ordinance or regulation
and have not been granted a valid variance or deviation order or considered
legally nonconforming;
   (C)   Where continuation of such occupancy presents a clear danger to life,
health, property, or public welfare.
(1992 Code, § 460:02) (Ord. 1315, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This code establishes minimum standards for maintaining dwellings, accessory
structures and premises. This code is intended to provide standards for
housing, owner occupied and rental. Applicable requirements shall apply to all
apartment units, homes, accessory structures, rooming houses, lodging and/or
boarding houses and mobile homes used, or intended for use, for human
habitation except rest homes, convalescent homes, nursing homes, hotels, motels
or dormitories. Where any building or portion thereof is used or intended to be
used as a combination apartment house-hotel, the provisions of this code shall
apply to the separate portions as if they were separate buildings. Dwellings,
in existence at the time of the adoption of this code may have their existing
use or occupancy continued, if such use or occupancy was legal at the time of
the adoption of this code, provided such continued use is not dangerous to
life, health, property, or public welfare.
(1992 Code, § 460:03) (Ord. 1315, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. The lowest story of any building that does not meet the minimum
requirements of a first story as defined herein.
   COURT or COURTYARD. An area, open to the sky, at or above grade that is
bounded on at least three sides by a building and having access to a public
way.
   DORMITORY(IES). Buildings owned or controlled by an educational institution;
or spaces within buildings owned or controlled by educational institutions,
where group sleeping accommodations are provided; or a series of closely
associated rooms without individual cooking facilities, and with common toilet
and bathroom facilities.
   DWELLING. A building, wholly or partly used or intended to be used for
living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes by human occupants; but not
including rest homes, convalescent homes, nursing homes, hotels, motels,
facilities licensed by the State of Minnesota as institutional occupancies or
dormitories and may also be called a residence or residential building or
apartment building.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms within a dwelling, forming a single
habitable unit and includes apartments.
   EGRESS. An arrangement of exit facilities to assure safe means of exit from
a building with specific dimensions as required in this code or any applicable
code.
   EXIT. A continuous and unobstructed means of egress to a public way. Exit
includes intervening doors, corridors, ramps, stairways, and courts.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their places of harborage; by removing or making
inaccessible materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying,
fumigating, trapping; or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination
method. Extermination shall include removing all signs of extermination
thereafter.
   FIRST STORY. The lowest story in a building provided it is not more than
four feet below grade for more than 50% off its perimeter, or more than eight
feet below grade at any point in its perimeter.
   GARBAGE." All putrescible organic wastes resulting from the handling,
storage, preparation, cooking or consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room used or intended to be used for living, sleeping,
eating or cooking purposes, excluding bathrooms, water closet compartments,
laundries, pantries, foyers, corridors, unoccupied cellars, accessory garages,
porches, attics, stairways, closets and storage spaces, and utility and heating
areas.
   INFESTATION. The presence of insects, rodents or other pests within or
around a dwelling.
   KITCHEN. A habitable space within a dwelling unit used or intended to be
used for cooking of food or preparation of meals. No part of any kitchen may be
within the bathroom or toilet compartment.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use of land or occupancy that does not comply with the
regulations of this Ordinance, but which did conform to regulations in effect
at the time of original occupancy or licensing.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, eating or cooking within a dwelling
unit.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or a joint venture or organization of any kind.
   PREMISES. The dwelling and its land and all buildings thereon.
   PUBLIC WAY. Street, alley or other place where the public has access and
which is at least ten feet in width.
   RENT. Any consideration paid for the exclusive use of the dwelling unit,
including, but not limited to, money, services or a combination thereof, paid
or delivered at fixed intervals periodically agreed upon.
   REPAIR. To restore to a sound, acceptable state of operation, serviceability
or appearance.
   REPLACE or REPLACEMENT. To remove all or a portion of an existing system or
structure and to construct or install a new item of a quality similar to that
of the item replaced when it was new. Replacement ordinarily takes place when
repair of an item is impractical.
   ROOMING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a habitable unit used or
intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking purposes,
along with private or shared sanitation facilities.
   RUBBISH. All nonputrescible solid wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin
cans, glass, cold ashes, wood, clothing, yard clippings and similar materials.
   SAFETY. The condition of being reasonably free from danger and hazards which
may cause injury or illness.
   SOUND CONDITION AND GOOD REPAIR. The dwelling unit on its structural
elements, fixtures, facilities or equipment are in a safe and acceptable
condition and appearance and in good working order and operation.
   YARD. Any open space, other than a court, unobstructed from the ground to
the sky, on the lot on which a building is located.
(1992 Code, § 460:04) (Ord. 1315, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.05 INSPECTIONS UNDER THE MINIMUM HOUSING CODE.
   (A)   Rental licenses. Inspections of rental dwelling units shall be made as
provided in §§
115.01 through
115.14.
   (B)   Inspection upon complaint. Any residential property within the city is
subject to investigation upon complaint by any citizen or city employee.
Complaints shall be investigated in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   Complaints involving immediate substantial risk to life and/or
safety: such complaints shall be investigated immediately by the City Fire
Chief or designee to verify the existence of conditions presenting immediate
threat to life and/or safety.
      (2)   Complaints with a significant potential of risk to life and/or
safety: Such complaints shall be investigated within 24 hours of receipt by the
City Fire Chief or designee to verify the existence of conditions in violation
of this Code or any other applicable statute, ordinance, code or regulation.
      (3)   All other complaints: Such complaints against residential property,
not outlined above, shall be investigated within 72 hours of receipt, or as
soon thereafter as practicable, by the City Fire Chief, or designee, to verify
the existence of conditions in violation of this code or any other applicable
statute, ordinance, code or regulation.
   (C)   Confidentiality of complainant's name. The identity of any person
filing a complaint about violations of state law or local ordinances concerning
the use of real property, and any information that would identify such person,
is classified as confidential under Minn. Stat. § 13.44. No employee or agent
of the city shall release or reveal such information except by court order.
(1992 Code, § 460:05) (Ord. 1315, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. passed)
§ 151.06 SPACE AND OCCUPANCY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Substandard buildings generally. Any building or portion thereof, or
the premises on which the same is located, where violations of this code exist,
or where the following listed conditions are present, to an extent that
endangers the life, limb, health, property, welfare or safety of the public or
the occupants thereof shall be deemed and is hereby declared to be a
substandard building. All conditions noted below are regulated under the
International Building Code and International Fire Code elsewhere adopted in
this chapter.
      (1)   Dampness of habitable rooms.
      (2)   General dilapidation or improper maintenance.
      (3)   Deteriorated or inadequate foundations.
      (4)   Defective or deteriorated flooring or floor supports.
      (5)   Walls, partitions or other vertical supports that twist, lean or
buckle.
      (6)   Roofs, ceilings or other horizontal members that sag or buckle.
      (7)   Fireplaces or chimneys that lean, crumble or settle.
      (8)   Maintenance of any public nuisance as defined in city ordinance or
state statute.
      (9)   Maintenance of any nuisance which may be a safety hazard, including
abandoned wells, shafts, basements, cisterns or excavations; abandoned
refrigerators or motor vehicles; structurally unsound buildings or fences; or
any lumber, trash, fence, debris or unlawful vegetation.
      (10)   Electrical wiring that does not conform to the law in effect at
the time of installation or any wiring that is not maintained in good
condition. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to broken wires,
bare or frayed wires, broken or burned outlets and switches, missing cover
plates, fuses rated for more than wiring, and bypassed or defeated fuses/
circuit breakers.
      (11)   Deteriorated, crumbling or loose plaster or sheet rock.
      (12)   Deteriorated or ineffective weatherproofing of exterior walls,
roof, foundations or floors, including broken windows or doors.
      (13)   Defective or lack of weather protection for exterior of
structures, including lack of paint, or weathering due to lack of paint or
other approved protective covering as provided herein. Exterior wood members
treated with decay-resistant materials and designed to be left in an unpainted
state are exempt from this requirement.
      (14)   Broken, rotted, split or buckled exterior wall coverings or roof
covering.
      (15)   Any building or portion thereof, device, apparatus, equipment,
combustible waste or vegetation which is in such condition as to cause fire or
explosion or provide a ready fuel to augment the spread and intensity of any
fire or explosion arising from any cause.
      (16)   Railings, banisters, decks, balconies, and stairways that are
broken, not secure or constructed in such manner as to present a danger to
those using such railing, banister, deck, balcony, or stairway.
      (17)   Inadequate heating, inadequate hot/cold running water, or lack of
toilet, bath or shower facilities where required.
   (B)   Emergency orders. Whenever the City Fire Chief, or designee, finds
that an emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public
health and/or safety, the City Fire Chief, or designee, may, without notice or
hearing, issue to the owner of property an order reciting the existence of such
an emergency and requiring the owner to take such action as the City Fire
Chief, or designee, deems necessary to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding the
other provisions of the housing code, such order shall be effective immediately
and any person to whom such order is directed shall comply therewith
immediately, but upon petition to the City Fire Chief shall be afforded a
hearing, granted by the City Board of Appeals. After such hearing, the city
shall continue such order in effect, or modify it, or revoke it. Failure to
request a hearing or take the action required by the order within five days of
mailing or within three days of personal service of the order shall be a
misdemeanor.
(1992 Code, § 460:06) (Ord. 1315, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.07 EXTERIOR REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Address. The address of the dwelling shall be visible from the street
and of contrasting color to the building.
   (B)   Roof. Every roof must be tight, without leaks, and kept in sound
condition and good repair.
   (C)   Chimney. Chimneys shall be in sound condition and good repair and
shall not be leaning, crumbling, or settling.
   (D)   Gutters and soffits. Gutters and soffits shall be in sound condition
and good repair. Gutters shall be properly attached to the building to allow
for drainage.
   (E)   Windows and doors. Windows and doors shall be operable, in sound
condition and good repair. Broken windows shall be replaced. Rotting window
frames shall be replaced or repaired.
   (F)   Trash, rubbish, abandoned refrigerators, freezers, and other
appliances. Trash and rubbish shall be properly stored and disposed of. Each
dwelling unit shall have access to an enclosed container. No abandoned
refrigerators, freezers, or other appliances shall be left outside the
premises.
   (G)   Decks, patios and railings. Decks, patios and railings shall be in
sound condition and good repair.
   (H)   Retaining walls and fences. Retaining walls and fences shall be kept
in sound condition and good repair.
   (I)   Exterior weather protection. All exterior surfaces, other than decay
resistant wood or other decay resistant materials shall be maintained to
provide adequate weather protection to protect the exterior surfaces from the
elements and decay. Any area with chipped, missing or blistered paint which is
more than 25% of the surface area shall be repainted with non-lead based paint
or provided with weather or decay resistant coatings. For purposes of this
subsection AREA is that portion of a building surrounded by a definite break in
construction that separates it from the rest of the structure. Examples of
areas are: windows and sash, a side of a house, soffits, and doors.
   (J)   Foundations. Foundation material shall be maintained in sound
condition and good repair and shall be free from gaps or missing mortar or
defects that may cause leaks or structural failure.
   (K)   Gas meters. Exterior gas meters shall be provided with necessary
protection from contact with motor vehicles.
   (L)   Parking. Parking surfaces shall be gravel or stone at a minimum.
Parking of motor vehicles on lawns is prohibited.
   (M)   Detached structures. Detached structures, including garages, sheds,
and other accessory buildings shall be maintained in sound condition and good
repair and in the same manner as the main structure of the premises.
   (N)   Grills on decks. The use of grills, cookers, fuels, and fire pits
shall not be allowed on the deck of any building with more than two dwelling
units.
   (O)   Proper storage of fuel and fuel operated equipment. Gasoline and
gasoline operated vehicles and other equipment and cooking grills or cookers
containing fuels may not be stored within a dwelling unit. Gasoline and
gasoline operated vehicles and other equipment and cooking grills or cookers
containing fuels shall be stored in a garage or other accessory building having
a wall with a one-hour fire separation rating.
   (P)   Vegetation. Weeds, grass, vines or other growth that is capable of
being ignited and endangers property, shall be cut down and removed by the
owner or occupant of the premises.
(1992 Code, § 460:07) (Ord. 1315, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.08 ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Electrical equipment. Every dwelling unit and all public and common
areas shall be supplied with functioning electric service. All electrical
equipment, wiring and appliances shall be installed and maintained in a safe
manner in accordance with all applicable laws. All electrical equipment shall
be of an approved type for the intended use of such equipment.
   (B)   Outlets. Every habitable room shall contain at least two electrical
convenience outlets or one convenience outlet and one electric light fixture.
Every toilet compartment, bathroom, laundry room, furnace room and public
hallway shall contain at least one electric light fixture.
   (C)   Electrical service panel. Access to the operating face of any
electrical switchboard or panel board shall be maintained as provided in the
International Fire Code and/or Electrical Code. Electric panels shall be in a
condition so as not to allow contact with energized wires, contacts, or busses.
Fuse sockets shall be furnished with proper fuses.
   (D)   Extension cords. Extension cords shall not be used as a substitute for
permanent wiring. Extension cords shall not extend through wall openings,
beneath rugs or carpeting, or be bundled. Extension cords may not be used for
loads greater than the rated capacity for which they are designed.
   (E)   Outlets and junction boxes. All outlets and junction boxes shall have
covers that are property secured.
   (F)   Ground fault indicators (GFI's). All GFI outlets must be in sound
operating condition.
   (G)   Bare wires. Bare wires or wire nuts are prohibited except for low
voltage wiring for speaker cords, telephone equipment, or doorbell wiring or
knob and tube wiring in sound condition.
(1992 Code, § 460:08) (Ord. 1315, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.09 EXITS.
   (A)   Handrails. Handrails shall be continuous on one side of a stairway and
shall be between 34 and 38 inches in height. Where a handrail has been removed
it shall be replaced in compliance with the Building Code. A stairway shall be
equipped with a handrail where a safety hazard exits.
   (B)   Exit hardware. Doors shall open from the inside without the need of
special knowledge, effort or tools. Doors within common egress paths may not be
equipped with hasps/padlocks, multiple locks, or double keyed deadbolt locks.
Night latches, deadbolts, or security chains are acceptable within an
individual dwelling unit.
   (C)   Lighting in common hallways.
      (1)   Generally. All public hallways, stairs and other exit ways shall be
adequately lighted at all times. The level of light shall be maintained at an
intensity of one foot candle at floor level. One foot candle can be
approximated by having enough light to allow normally sighted people to see
their own feet. In lieu of continuously operating electrical lighting it shall
be acceptable to have motion activated lighting systems, provided such systems
are instantaneously activated by movement anywhere within the public hallway,
stair and other exit way.
      (2)   Exception. In duplexes and single residences conveniently located
self-illuminated light switches controlling an adequate working lighting system
which may be turned on when required may be substituted for full-time lighting.
   (D)   Exit signs and emergency lights. Exit signs and emergency lights must
be maintained in sound working condition.
   (E)   Fire doors. Fire doors when provided must be sound, positive latching
and self-closing. Fire doors shall be of solid construction of approved
materials.
   (F)   Exit ways. Exit ways shall be free and clear of obstructions including
storage, furniture, decorations, garbage, snow, or structural problems.
   (G)   Fire protection. Fire extinguishers shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   A 1A 10BC rated extinguisher shall be provided for each dwelling
unit; or
      (2)   A 2A 10BC rated extinguisher shall be located within 75 feet of
each dwelling unit door. No extinguisher shall be at a distance more than three
steps up or down from the door of the dwelling unit. All fire extinguishers
shall be accessible.
   (G)   Fire extinguisher maintenance.
      (1)   All fire extinguishers shall be checked monthly and logged to
determine that they are present and under proper pressure.
      (2)   All fire extinguishers shall be inspected annually by a qualified
person to determine that they are under proper pressure and that dry powder is
not hard packed and that they are otherwise in good operating order. Annual
inspections may be done by the owner with proper training or other qualified
person.
      (3)   Every six years all ABC extinguishers shall be recertified by a
professional service person.
      (4)   Proof of maintenance shall be evidenced by either a maintenance tag
or maintenance log, or both.
      (5)   The qualified person may be either a commercial fire extinguisher
maintenance firm or the owner with proper training.
   (H)    Smoke detectors.
      (1)   Single- or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed and
maintained regardless of the occupant load at all of the following locations:
         (a)   On the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area in
the immediate vicinity of bedrooms.
         (b)   In each room used for sleeping purposes.
         (c)   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements but
not including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwellings or dwelling
units with split levels and without an intervening door between the adjacent
levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for the
adjacent lower level provided that the lower level is less than one full story
below the upper level.
      (2)   For dwellings built before 8-1-1989, detectors can receive their
power from a battery supply. For dwellings built on or after 8-1-1989,
detectors shall be connected to a centralized power source.
      (3)   Listed single- and multiple-station smoke alarms complying with UL
217 shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of this code and the
household fire-warning equipment provisions of N.F.P.A. 72.
      (4)   A smoke detector shall be present and working in the basement, if
the basement door opens to the main living area.
      (5)   The detectors may be battery operated or hard wired. Smoke alarms
must be property maintained. Owners of dwelling units shall replace the
batteries and battery smoke alarms at least annually or more often as
necessary.
      (6)   Smoke alarms shall be tested at least once monthly. Smoke alarms
shall be replaced every ten years.
(1992 Code, § 460:09) (Ord. 1315, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.10 FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS; SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Dwellings equipped with or required to have the following systems
shall comply with the following requirements:
Type of System Type of Service Frequency To Be Completed by
Type of System        Type of Service         Frequency To Be Completed by
                                                        Qualified employee
                      Inspection and testing            working for a licensed
Detection and alarm   (low voltage/power      Annual    alarm and
                      limited)                          communications
                                                        contractor or licensed
                                                        electrical contractor
Emergency voice-alarm Testing and maintenance Annual    Qualified and
signaling                                               knowledgeable persons
                      Test pump operation               Qualified operating
                      under no-flow           Monthly   personnel
Fire pumps            conditions
                      Inspection and testing  Annual    Licensed sprinkler
                                                        contractor
Portable fire         Quick check             Monthly   Minimum knowledge
extinguishers                                           necessary
                      Maintenance             Annually  Trained person
Smoke control/removal Testing                 Annual    Approved person
Special suppression   Inspection and testing  Annual    Approved persons
                                                        Licensed sprinkler
Sprinkler             Inspection and testing  Annual    contractor or licensed
                                                        plumber
                                                        Licensed sprinkler
Standpipes            Inspection and testing  5 years   contractor or licensed
                                                        plumber
Systems in high-rise  Testing                 Annual    Approved persons
buildings
 
   (B)   All fire alarm systems required by the Fire Code shall automatically
transmit the alarms to an approved central station, remote or proprietary
station as defined in N.F.P.A. 72
(1992 Code, § 460:10) (Ord. 1315, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.11 INTERIOR REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General requirements for all living areas. Within all habitable rooms
of a dwelling unit, including living areas, kitchens, bathrooms, bedrooms and
basements, the following conditions shall be provided or maintained:
      (1)   General condition. Structural elements of the dwelling unit
including doors, windows, ceilings, walls, and floors shall be in sound
condition and good repair and free of fire hazards.
      (2)   Electrical wiring and lighting. Electrical wiring and lighting
shall be in sound condition and good repair.
      (3)   Heating. Heating facilities shall be turned on and maintained at a
minimum temperature of 68° F between October l and May 1.
      (4)   Security. Windows and exterior doors must be lockable and equipped
with locking devices of an approved type.
      (5)   Occupant load. The minimum floor area allowance per occupant in
residential dwellings shall be 200 gross square feet per occupant.
   (B)   Kitchens.
      (1)   Cooking ovens, cooking stoves, and/or cooking ranges. Cooking
ovens, cooking stoves, and/or cooking ranges, if provided by owner, shall be in
sound condition and repair and good operating order. Gas models shall be self-
igniting and equipped with a shut off valve. Gas lines shall be in sound
condition and good repair.
      (2)   Refrigerator. Refrigerators shall be operable, in sound condition,
and in good repair.
      (3)   Kitchen sink. The kitchen sink shall be operable, in sound
condition, and in good repair and provide adequate hot and cold running water.
      (4)   Food storage and preparation. Space shall be provided for the
storage and preparation of foods.
   (C)   Bathrooms.
      (1)   Toilet. Bathrooms shall be equipped with an operable flush toilet,
fixed washbasin or lavatory, and either a bathtub, shower or combination.
Adequate hot and cold running water shall be provided.
      (2)   Door. A bathroom shall occupy an enclosed space equipped with a
door.
   (D)   Bedrooms.
      (1)   Means of egress. All sleeping rooms shall have a primary and a
secondary means of escape. The primary means of escape is the primary access to
a room. The secondary means of escape may be a window meeting the minimum size
requirements set forth hereafter. All means of egress shall comply with this
section and Minnesota State Fire Marshal Office Policy # INS-04 (2007) (Revised
6-27-2012) located in the office of the City Building Official and/or City Fire
Chief.
      (2)   Escape windows.
         (a)   When required, emergency escape windows (second means of egress)
shall be installed and maintained in Group R occupancies as specified in
M.S.F.C. (07) Section 1026.1 and this policy. Emergency escape windows shall be
installed in sleeping rooms and basements used for sleeping.
         (b)   Any one of the following four options will substitute for an
emergency escape window from a room.
            1.   An escape window is not required if the room has a door that
leads directly to the exterior of the building.
            2.   An escape window is not required if the building is protected
through-out by an approved, automatic sprinkler system.
            3.   Escape windows need not be installed from rooms of existing
buildings having two separate means of escape, provided that the means of
escape are independent and remote from each other and they pass through one
adjacent non-lockable room or area.
            4.   Escape windows are not required in group R hotels or motels
constructed prior to 4-11-1983.
         (c)   Sliding glass doors may be accepted as qualifying exit doors
provided that the doors are maintained operational at all times (M.S.F.C. (07)
Section 1008.1.2 Exception 4, MSBC (07) Section 1008.1.2 Exception 4).
      (3)   Approved emergency escape windows. When used as an emergency
escape, only a single window in each room need meet the minimum size
requirements listed below. The window sash cannot be removed to meet the size
requirements and windows must be measured with the window fully opened by the
normal window opening mechanism.
         (a)   For escape windows installed prior to 7-10-2007*:
 
A minimum of 20 inches in width
A minimum of 24 inches in height
A minimum of 648 square inches (4.5 square feet) of clear opening
A maximum of 48 inches from the floor to the sill opening
*Note: The above is considered the absolute minimum regardless of existing or
window replacement.
 
         (b)   For escape windows installed above or below the level of exit
discharge on or after 7-10- 2007:
 
A minimum of 20 inches in width
A minimum of 20 inches in height
A minimum of 820 square inches (5.7 square feet) of clear opening
A maximum of 44 inches from the floor to the sill opening
 
         (c)   For grade or ground floor escape windows installed on or after
7-10-2007:
 
A minimum of 20 inches in width
A minimum of 24 inches in height
A minimum of 720 square inches (5.0 square feet) of clear opening
A maximum of 44 inches from the floor to the sill opening
 
         (d)   Approved egress/escape windows may include any of the following:
 
Double hung windows
Double hung windows
Casement windows
 
         (e)   See the diagrams in the office of the City Building Official and
City Fire Chief for additional description of acceptable escape windows and a
worksheet for determining compliance with the requirements of the MSEC (07).
      (4)   Escape window opening height. Escape windows with openings up to 52
inches off of the floor may meet the height requirement (for existing buildings
as applicable from Section 1.2 above in division (D)(2) by securing a step,
platform or bed to the wall directly underneath the window. This step, platform
or bed shall be no more than 44 inches below the opening and must be strong
enough to support the weight of the person. The minimum acceptable width shall
be the same as the window opening. The minimum acceptable depth away from the
wall shall be 18 inches. (M.S.F.C. (07) Section 1026.1)
      (5)   Coverings on escape windows. Plastic coverings are allowed to cover
egress/escape windows and exterior doors if the plastic covering meets the
following requirements. (M.S.F.C. (07) Section 1026.1)
         (a)   The plastic covering shall be readily transparent. The occupant
shall be able to readily see rescuers on the outside and rescuers shall be able
to readily see people on the inside.
         (b)   The plastic covering may only be attached on the inside and can
only be attached to the window frame or structure with two sided tape, hook and
loop (Velcro) or static cling.
         (c)   The plastic shall have enough material overhanging the
attachment on all sides, top and bottom to facilitate grabbing it from any
direction and allow easy removal.
      (6)   Window wells. Escape windows with a finished sill height below the
adjacent ground elevation shall have a window well. Window wells shall comply
with the following (M.S.F.C. (07) Section 1026.5). See the POLICY # INS -26
diagram in the office of the City Building Official and City Fire Chief for
additional description of window wells and a worksheet for determining
compliance with the requirements of the M.S.F.C. (07).
         (a)   Window well size. The window well shall have a minimum
horizontal area of nine square feet with minimum dimensions of 36 inches. The
area of the window well shall allow the emergency escape opening to be fully
opened. (M.S.F.C. (07) Section 1026.5)
         (b)   Ladders or steps. Window wells with a vertical depth of more
than 44 inches shall be equipped with an approved permanently affixed ladder or
stairs that is accessible with the window in the fully open position. The
ladder shall not be obstructed by the window or obstruct the opening of the
window. The ladder is also not allowed to encroach into the required dimensions
of the window well by more than six inches. (M.S.F.C. (07) Section 1026.5.2)
         (c)   Covers on window wells. Window wells may be covered as necessary
to keep the window well clear of debris, snow, and rain water and to help
prevent people from falling in if the building owner wishes. However, the cover
shall comply with the following requirements:
            1.   The covering shall not interfere with the opening of the
window in any way.
            2.   The covering shall be supported in such a way that it cannot
become frozen to the ground, window well or structure.
            3.   The covering shall be readily removable without the use of
tools or special knowledge from the window well area by the building occupants.
      (7)   Means of egress for existing buildings. Means of egress in existing
buildings shall comply with 2007 Minnesota State Fire Code, §§ 1027.1 through
1027.23.4.
         (a)   Compliance option. Means of egress in existing buildings
conforming to N.F.P.A. 101 (Life Safety Code) shall be deemed as evidence of
compliance with this section.
         (b)   Previous codes. Means of egress in existing buildings conforming
to the requirements of the Fire Code or Building Code under which they were
constructed shall be considered, as complying means of egress if, in the
opinion of the fire code official, they do not constitute a distinct hazard to
life.
      (8)   Carbon monoxide alarm requirements.
         (a)   Carbon monoxide alarm. Every single family dwelling and every
dwelling unit in a multi-family dwelling must have an approved and operational
carbon monoxide alarm installed within ten feet of each room lawfully used for
sleeping purposes. All carbon monoxide alarms must comply with this section and
with Minn. Stat. § 299F.50.
         (b)   Exceptions.
            1.   In lieu of requirements of this division (D)(8), multi-family
dwellings may have approved and operational carbon monoxide alarms installed
between 15 and 25 feet of carbon monoxide producing central fixtures and
equipment provided there is a centralized alarm system or other mechanism for
responsible parties to hear the alarm at all times.
            2.   An owner of a multi-family dwelling that contains minimal or
no sources of carbon monoxide may be exempted from the requirements of division
(A), above, provided that such owner certifies to the commissioner of public
safety that such multi-family dwelling poses no foreseeable carbon monoxide
risk to the health and safety to the dwelling units.
   (E)   Basements; egress. Basement stairways shall be in sound condition and
good repair and required handrails installed and secure.
   (F)   Utilities.
      (1)   Furnace and water heater. The furnace or boiler and water heater
shall be in sound condition and in good repair.
      (2)   Clearances. The following clearances shall be maintained:
         (a)   Pipes:   Six inches to combustibles on single wall pipes.
         (b)   Pipes:   One inch to combustibles on new style double wall
riser.
         (c)   Combustibles are not allowed in the area around the furnace,
water heater or boiler.
         (d)   Wood burners need a minimum of three feet of clearance.
      (3)   Chimney pipes. Chimney pipes must be clear, in sound condition, and
good repair and the piping shall be stable.
      (4)   Washer and dryer units. Electrical and gas connections shall be in
sound condition and in good repair. Gas piping shall not have any kinks.
Exhaust ducts for domestic clothes dryers shall be constructed of metal and
have a smooth interior finish. The exhaust duct shall be a minimum nominal size
of four feet (102 mm) in diameter. The entire exhaust system shall be supported
and secured in place. The male end of the duct at overlap duct joints shall
extend in the direction of airflow. Clothes dryer transition ducts used to
connect the appliance to the exhaust duct system shall be limited to single
lengths not to exceed eight feet (2438 mm) and shall be listed and labeled for
the application. Transition ducts shall not be concealed within construction.
   (G)   Health and safety.
      (1)   Insects and rodents. Rodents or insects shall be eliminated from
dwelling units.
      (2)   Housekeeping. Living areas shall be clean and free of hazards which
may cause injury or illness.
(1992 Code, § 460:13) (Ord. 1315, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations; penalty generally. A violation of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from pursuing
other legal remedies, including injunctive relief for any violation of this
chapter.
(1992 Code, § 460:12)
   (B)   Complaints.
      (1)   Penalty for retaliation against complainant. It is a misdemeanor
for any person to take retaliatory action against, harass or intimidate any
person who makes a good faith complaint against real property within the city.
      (2)   Penalty for filing false or malicious complaint. It shall be a
misdemeanor for any person to file a false or malicious complaint of violations
of state law or local ordinance concerning the use of real property.
(1992 Code, § 460:05)
(Ord. 1315, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 152: TRAILERS
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Enforcement
   
152.03   Location outside camps
   
152.04   Permanent occupancy prohibited
   
152.05   Permits
   
152.06   Investigation required before issuing permit
   
152.07   Revocation and inspection
   
152.08   Appeal of denial, renewal or revocation of permit
   
152.09   Separability and conflict
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED SEWER SYSTEM. The city’s sewer system or septic tank, with tile
absorption system constructed in accordance with the specifications of the
County Sanitary Ordinance.
   APPROVED WATER SYSTEM. The public water system of the city, or a private
well and water therefrom, which is in all respects approved by the State Board
of Health.
   PERSON. Persons, partnership, firm, company, corporation, tenant, owner,
lessee or licensee, their agents, heirs or assigns.
   TRAILER. An automobile trailer, trailer coach or any vehicle or structure so
designed and constructed in such manner as will permit occupancy thereof as
living quarters for one or more persons, and so designed that it is or may be
mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on highways or streets, propelled or
drawn by its own or other motive power.
   TRAILER COACH PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which two or
more occupied trailer coaches are harbored, either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as part of the equipment of such trailer
coach park.
(1992 Code, § 320:00)
§ 152.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   It is hereby made the duty of the City Engineer to enforce all provisions of
this chapter as prescribed herein or such provisions as may hereafter be
enacted and, for the purpose of securing such enforcement, the City Engineer or
his or her authorized representative shall have the right and is hereby
empowered to enter upon any premises on which automobile trailers are located,
and inspect the same and all accommodations connected therewith at any
reasonable time. After securing the approval of the City Council, the City
Engineer is further empowered to issue orders granting, renewing and revoking
such permits as are provided for in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter; provided, however, that, nothing herein contained shall be construed
to apply to trailer coach parks which are regulated and governed by the State
Board of Health pursuant to Ch. 428, Laws of Minnesota 1951 (Minn. Stat. §§
327.14 et seq., as they may be amended from time to time).
(1992 Code, § 320:05)
§ 152.03 LOCATION OUTSIDE CAMPS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, within the limits of the city, for any person to
park any trailer on any street, alley, highway or other public place or on any
tract of land owned by any person, occupied or unoccupied, within the city,
except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any alley,
street or highway for not longer than 24 hours, subject to any other and
further prohibitions, regulations or ordinances for that street, alley or
highway.
   (C)   No person shall park or occupy any trailer on the premises of any
occupied dwelling or on any lot which is not a part of the premises of any
occupied dwelling either of which is situated outside an approved trailer coach
park; except the parking of only one unoccupied trailer in an accessory private
garage building, or in a rear or side yard of any district, is permitted;
providing, no living quarters shall be maintained or any business practiced in
said trailer while such trailer is so parked or stored.
   (D)   Any person dealing in the buying and selling of trailers may park or
store one or more unoccupied trailers on lands which are zoned in the city so
as to permit automobile sales service.
   (E)   The County Agricultural Society (Fair Board), while in the pursuit of
conducting a county fair in and for the county, may permit one or more
trailers, occupied or unoccupied, on its grounds in the corporate limits of the
city, during any such county fair, and incident thereto for a total period of
time of not to exceed ten days, upon such terms and conditions as it may by law
prescribe.
(1992 Code, § 320:10) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 PERMANENT OCCUPANCY PROHIBITED.
   Automobile trailers shall not be used as a permanent place of abode or as a
permanent dwelling or for indefinite periods of time; provided that, any
trailer properly connected with an approved water system and with an approved
sewer system, and constructed and located in compliance with all requirements
of the plumbing, sanitary, health, zoning and electrical ordinances and
regulations effective in the city and not inhabited by a greater number of
occupants than that for which it was designed may be permitted for a temporary
period of time as herein provided under permits properly secured hereunder and
upon compliance with plumbing, electrical, sanitary, health and zoning
ordinances and regulations effective in said city.
(1992 Code, § 320:15) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 PERMITS.
   (A)   Every person seeking a permit, or renewal thereof, hereunder shall
make an application therefor in writing at the office of the City Engineer upon
a form provided. It shall state the name and address of the applicant, and a
description of the property upon which such permit is desired.
   (B)   Each such application shall be filed with the City Engineer not less
than ten days before said trailer is ready for occupancy and shall be
accompanied by an inspection fee in the amount duly established by the Council
from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 320:20)
§ 152.06 INVESTIGATION REQUIRED BEFORE ISSUING PERMIT.
   Upon filing of such application accompanied by the inspection fee, it shall
be the duty of the City Engineer, or his or her duly authorized representative,
to investigate the premises and determine whether said trailer and land upon
which it is proposed to be used, conform with the requirements of this chapter
and of the rules and regulations of the City Engineer and laws of the state,
and no permit or renewal thereof shall be issued unless it meets such
requirements and no permit or renewal thereof shall be issued for a period of
in excess of any year.
(1992 Code, § 320:25)
§ 152.07 REVOCATION AND INSPECTION.
   The City Engineer is hereby authorized to revoke any license or permit
issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter if, after due investigation, he or
she determines that the holder thereof has violated any of the provisions of
this chapter or that any trailer is being maintained in an unsanitary or unsafe
manner or is a nuisance.
(1992 Code, § 320:30)
§ 152.08 APPEAL OF DENIAL, RENEWAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any person aggrieved by an order of the City Engineer granting, denying,
renewing or revoking a permit for the use of a trailer under this chapter may
file a written appeal within ten days after issuance of such order with the
City Clerk-Treasurer. Upon receiving such written appeal, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall then cause the matter to be placed on the agenda of the City
Council for review and disposition.
(1992 Code, § 320:35)
§ 152.09 SEPARABILITY AND CONFLICT.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply to any trailer coach
park in the limits of the city, which is regulated by the State Board of Health
pursuant to Ch. 428, Laws of Minnesota, 1951 (Minn. Stat. §§ 327.14 et seq., as
they may be amended from time to time).
(1992 Code, § 320:40)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a penal
offense and each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(1992 Code, § 320:37)
CHAPTER 153: SIGNS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Purpose and intent
   
153.03   Severance
   
153.04   Reference to Zoning Ordinance
   
153.05   Sign types not provided for within zoning districts
   
153.06   Rules
   
153.07   Definitions
   
153.08   General provisions
   
153.09   Legal non-conforming signs
   
153.10   Prohibited signs
   
153.11   Existing signs; continuance
   
153.12   Exempted signs
Zoning Districts; Compliance
   
153.25   Agriculture and residence districts
   
153.26   R-B District
   
153.27   B-1 District
   
153.28   B-2 District
   
153.29   B-3 Central Business District
   
153.30   Industrial Districts
   
153.31   Highway Business Sign Overlay District Map
Permits and Administration
   
153.45   Sign application
   
153.46   Permit issued if application in order
   
153.47   Permit fees
   
153.48   Insurance requirements
   
153.49   Variance requests
   
153.50   Compliance
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Owatonna
Sign Ordinance”.
   (B)   Referred to herein, it shall be known as “this chapter”.
(1992 Code, § 330:00)
§ 153.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This chapter is established to protect and promote health, safety,
general welfare and order within the city through the establishment of a
comprehensive and impartial series of standards, regulations and procedures
governing the type, numbers, size, structure, location, height, lighting,
erection, use and/or display of devices, signs or symbols serving as a visual
communication media to persons situated within or upon public rights-of-way or
properties.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are intended to encourage opportunity
for effective, orderly communication by reducing confusion and hazards
resulting from unnecessary and/or discriminate use of communication facilities.
(1992 Code, § 330:05)
§ 153.03 SEVERANCE.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion thereof of this chapter shall
be found to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect any other section, clause,
provision or portion thereof of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 330:10)
§ 153.04 REFERENCE TO ZONING ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The zoning districts referred to in this chapter shall be the zoning
districts as established in Ord. 827 and as indicated on the “Zoning Map of
Owatonna”, as established by Ord. 827.
   (B)   Furthermore, the procedures and standards for reviewing and granting
conditional uses under this chapter shall be those procedures, requirements and
standards as provided for in Ord. 827, codified as
Ch. 157 herein.
(1992 Code, § 330:12)
§ 153.05 SIGN TYPES NOT PROVIDED FOR WITHIN ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Whenever in any zoning district a sign type is neither specifically
permitted nor denied, the sign type shall be considered as not allowed. In such
case the City Council, the Planning Commission or a property owner may request
a study by the city to determine if the sign type is acceptable and, if so,
what zoning district would be most appropriate and the determination as to
conditions and standards relating to sign type. The City Council and/or
Planning Commission, upon receipt of the staff study may, if appropriate,
initiate an amendment to the sign ordinance to provide for the particular sign
type under consideration or may find that the sign type is not compatible with
the visual character of the proposed district.
(1992 Code, § 330:15)
§ 153.06 RULES.
   The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction.
   (A)   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   (B)   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses, and the
future the present.
   (C)   The word “shall” is mandatory, while the word “may” is permissive.
   (D)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   (E)   All measured distances shall be to the nearest integral foot. If a
fraction is one-half foot, the integral foot next highest shall be taken.
   (F)   Whenever a word or term defined appears in the text of this chapter,
its meaning shall be construed as set forth in such definitions thereof.
(1992 Code, § 330:20)
§ 153.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS SIGN. A sign communicating street address only, whether written or
in numerical form.
   ADVERTISING SIGNS. A billboard, poster panel board or other communication
device, which issued to advertise products, goods and/or services which are not
exclusively related to the premises which the sign is located.
   AREA IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A freestanding sign which identifies the name of a
neighborhood, a residential subdivision, a multiple-residential complex
consisting of three or more structures, a shopping center consisting of five or
more separate business concerns, an industrial area, an office complex
consisting of three or more structures or any combination of the above, located
on contiguous property.
   BANNERS and PENNANTS. Attention-getting devices which resemble flags and are
of a paper, cloth or plastic-like consistency.
   BUSINESS. Any establishment, occupation, employment or enterprise where
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited or sold, or where services are offered
for compensation.
   BUSINESS SIGN. Any sign which identifies a business or group of businesses,
either retail or wholesale, or any sign which identifies a profession or is
used in the identification or promotion of any principal commodity or service,
including entertainment, offered or sold upon the premises where such sign is
located.
   CANOPY AND MARQUEE SIGNS. Any message or identification which is affixed to
a projection or extension of a building or structure, erected in such a manner
as to provide a shelter or cover over the approach to any entrance of a store,
building or place of assembly.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN or DEVELOPMENT SIGN. A non-illuminated sign announcing the
names of architects, engineers, developers, contractors or other individuals or
firms involved with the development, construction, alteration or repair of any
buildings or property (but not including any advertisement of any product) or
announcing the character of the building enterprise, or the purpose for which
the construction is intended.
   DISTRICT. Refers to a specific zoning district as defined by Ord. 827.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, designed exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family and multiple-family
dwellings, but not including hotels, motels and boarding houses.
   FREESTANDING SIGNS. Divided into two classes:
      (1)   GROUND SIGN. A sign affixed directly to the ground; and
      (2)   PYLON SIGN. A sign erected upon a post or posts where no portion of
the message area is less than eight feet above the ground. The message area may
be contained on more than one panel or display area.
   GOVERNMENTAL SIGNS. A sign which is erected by a governmental unit for the
purpose of identification and directing or guiding traffic.
   HOLIDAY SIGNS. Signs or displays which contain or depict message pertaining
to a national or state holiday, and not other matter.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGNS. Signs in all districts which identify the business or
owner, or manager or resident and set forth the address of the property.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which is lighted by an artificial light source
either directed upon it or illuminated from an interior source.
   INDIVIDUAL PROPERTY SALE OR RENTAL SIGNS. Any on-premises sign announcing
the name of the owner, manager, realtor or other person directly involved in
the sale or rental of the property or announcing the purpose for which it is
being offered.
   INFORMATIONAL/DIRECTIONAL SIGNS. Any sign giving information to employees,
visitors or delivery vehicles, but containing no advertising. May include name
of business, but must predominantly represent a directional or informational
message.
   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN. A sign or bulletin board which identifies the name and
other characteristics of a public, semi-public or private institution on the
site where the sign is located. Institutions shall include churches, hospitals,
nursing homes, schools and other non-profit and charitable organizations.
   INTEGRAL SIGNS. Names of buildings, date of construction, commemorative
tablets and the like, which are of a permanent type of construction and which
are an integral part of the building or the structure.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
      (1)   ILLEGAL. A sign which was constructed after the passage of this
chapter or amendments thereto and does not conform with the regulations of this
chapter is ILLEGAL.
      (2)   LEGAL. A sign which lawfully existed at the time of the passage of
this chapter or amendment thereto, but which does not conform with the
regulations of this chapter is LEGAL.
   PARAPET. A low wall which is located perpendicular to (extension of front
wall) a roof of a building.
   POLITICAL CAMPAIGN SIGNS. Signs or posters announcing the candidate(s)
seeking political office and/or political issues, and data pertinent thereto.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign, other than a wall sign, which is affixed to a
building and which extends perpendicular or at an angle from the building wall.
   PUBLIC SIGN. Signs of a public, non-commercial nature, to include safety
signs, danger signs, trespassing signs, traffic signs, signs indicating scenic
or historical points of interest, memorial plaques and the like, when signs are
erected by or on order of a public officer or employees in the performance of
official duty.
   ROOF LINE. The top of the coping; or, when the building has a pitched roof,
as the intersection of the outside wall with the roof.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign supported by the roof, or parapet wall of a building or
structure. Adequate clearance shall be maintained so as to provide access
around or under such signs. The supporting members of such signs shall appear
to be free of any extra bracing angle iron, guy wires, cables and the like. The
supports shall appear to be an architectural and integral part of the building
and sign.
   SHOPPING CENTER. An integrated grouping of commercial stores, under single
ownership or control.
   SIGN. The use of any works, numerals, figures, devices or trademarks by
which anything is made known such as are used to show an individual, firm,
profession or business, and are visible to the general public.
   SIGN AREA. The area within the marginal lines created by the sign surface
which bears the advertisement or, in the case of messages, figures or symbols
attached directly to the part of a building, which is included in the smallest
geometric figure which can be made to circumscribe the message, figure or
symbol displayed thereon. Only one side of a double face sign shall be counted
as SIGN AREA.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The supports, foundations, uprights, bracing and framework
for a sign, including the sign area.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The proximity of a parcel of land to one or more streets.
An interior lot has one STREET FRONTAGE and a corner lot has two frontages.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign which is erected or displayed for a specified
period of time.
   WALL SIGN or FACIA SIGN. A sign which is affixed to the exterior wall of a
building. A WALL SIGN does not project more than 18 inches from the surface to
which it is attached, nor extend beyond top of parapet wall.
(1992 Code, § 330:25)
§ 153.08 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   These regulations shall apply to signs in all zoning districts.
   (A)   All signs shall comply with maintenance § S-305 of Volume V of the
Uniform Building Code as promulgated by the International Conference of
Building Officials. Enforcement of time and penalty provisions shall be
conducted by the Building Inspector according to this code of ordinances.
   (B)   When electrical signs are installed, the installation shall be subject
to the State Electrical Code.
   (C)   No signs other than governmental signs shall be erected or temporarily
placed within any street right-of-way or upon any public lands or easements or
rights-of-way.
   (D)   Except as regulated elsewhere in this chapter, the use of portable
reader board signs, searchlights and other signs of a temporary nature is
prohibited; except that, temporary signs, other than portable reader board
signs which are used for the advertisement of political or civic or social non-
profit functions, may be permitted upon receipt of a temporary sign permit
issued by the City Council. The use of banners and pennants for no more than 12
days in any one year is permitted without permit.
   (E)   No sign or sign structure shall protrude over public right-of-way,
except in a B-3 District.
   (F)   Any sign on public sidewalks must be at least eight feet above grade,
and no closer than two feet from the curb line.
   (G)   Advertising signs are allowed back to back in B-2 Highway Business
Sign Overlay District, I-1 and I-2.
   (H)   All signs shall display permit number.
   (I)   All height restrictions on signs shall include height of sign
structure.
   (J)   Sign structure shall not be counted in the square feet of the sign.
   (K)   If any property use or business changes ownership and type of business
or location, or discontinues operation, all signs and structures identifying
the business or property use no longer in existence shall be removed or brought
into conformance within 180 days. Non-compliance with this division (K) is
subject to the provisions of §
153.99 of this chapter.
   (L)   No sign shall be painted on buildings, fences, trees, stores or
similar objects in any district. Windows on storefronts are exempt from this
division (L).
   (M)   No person shall construct, establish or create, and no person shall
maintain any stationary exterior lighting or illumination system or any
interior system which is intended to be viewed from a public street, highway or
other public thoroughfare used for vehicular traffic, which system contains or
utilizes:
      (1)   Any revolving beacon light or revolving units that revolve more
than eight revolutions per minute;
      (2)   Any continuous or sequential flashing operation in which more than
one-third of the lights are turned on or off at one time;
      (3)   An imitation of or resemblance to an official traffic sign or
signal, on which bear the words “Stop”, “Go Slow”, “Caution”, “Danger”,
“Warning” or similar words; and
      (4)   Exceptions: these provisions shall not apply to lighting systems
owned or controlled by any public agency, aircraft warning lights or electronic
information systems which display the time of day and/or the atmospheric
temperature or programmable electronic messages of a public service or
commercial nature.
(1992 Code, § 330:30) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 LEGAL NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   A legal non-conforming sign may not be:
   (A)   Altered to another non-conforming sign;
   (B)   Structurally altered, except to bring the compliance with the
provisions of this chapter;
   (C)   Expanded;
   (D)   Reestablished after its removal for 90 days; and/or
   (E)   Reestablished after damage of more than 50% of sign replacement cost
except to bring into compliance.
(1992 Code, § 330:35) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are specifically prohibited by this chapter:
   (A)   Any sign which obstructs the vision of drivers or pedestrians or
detracts from the visibility of any official traffic-control device, or within
any yard areas on a corner lot which shall interfere with visibility across the
corner within 30 feet of the intersecting street right-of-way lines, except in
the Central Business District;
   (B)   Any sign which contains or imitates an official traffic sign or
signal, except for private, on-premises directional signs;
   (C)   Any sign which contains or consists of banners, pennants, ribbons,
streamers, strings of light bulbs, spinners or similar devices (except in the
case of §
153.08(D) of this chapter);
   (D)   Signs which are attached in any manner to trees, fences, utility poles
or other such permanent supports, except for those signs found on fences
(inside) of baseball parks;
   (E)   All displays which are not shielded to prevent any light to be
directed at oncoming traffic in such brilliance as to impair the vision of any
driver. No device shall be illuminated in such manner as to interfere with or
obscure an official traffic sign or signal. This includes indoor signs which
are visible from public streets; and
   (F)   Any sign, other than public signs, located within any street right-of-
way.
(1992 Code, § 330:40)
§ 153.11 EXISTING SIGNS; CONTINUANCE.
   (A)   All non-conforming and prohibited signs shall be removed or brought
into conformity with this chapter within the following time periods:
      (1)   Any sign in violation of §
153.10 of this chapter: 180 days; and
      (2)   Illegal signs: §
153.07 of this chapter must be removed immediately and subject to §
153.99 of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall require the removal or
discontinuance of a legal, non-conforming sign that is not altered as specified
in §
153.09 of this chapter.
      (2)   The changing of movable parts of signs which are designed for
changes, or the repainting or repapering of display matter shall not be deemed
to be alterations within the meaning of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 330:45)
§ 153.12 EXEMPTED SIGNS.
   (A)   The following signs are allowed without a permit; provided, they
comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Public signs;
      (2)   Identification signs. Not to exceed two square feet in area in R-1,
R-2 and R-3 Zones; five square feet in all other zones. If the sign is
freestanding, the total height may not exceed six feet, nor can the sign be
closer than five feet from all property lines;
      (3)   Integral signs;
      (4)   Political campaign signs. One per candidate per premises, shall not
exceed five square feet in A-O, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, R-6, R-B and B-
1 Zoning Districts, and 24 square feet in all other districts. If sign is
freestanding, the total height may not exceed six feet, and not closer than
five feet from all property lines. Every campaign sign must contain the name
and address of persons responsible for such sign, and that person shall be
responsible for its removal. Signs erected before the primary election shall
remain in place for no longer than five days after general or special election
for which they are intended. All signs shall be confined to private property;
      (5)   Holiday signs. Displayed for a period not to exceed 60 days. No
larger than 32 square feet;
      (6)   Construction signs (or development signs). Such signs shall be
confined to the site of the development, construction, alteration or repair,
and shall be removed within two years of the date of issuance of the first
building permit or when the particular project is completed, whichever is
sooner as determined by the City Building Inspector or his or her agent. One
sign shall be permitted for each major street the project abuts. No sign may
exceed 32 square feet in R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts. If sign is freestanding in
R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts, the height may not exceed ten feet nor can the sign
be closer than five feet from all property lines. No sign may exceed 50 square
feet in all other zoning districts. If sign is freestanding in all other zoning
districts, the height may not exceed 20 feet, nor can the sign be closer than
20 feet from all property lines;
      (7)   Individual property sale or rental signs. Signs must be removed
within 30 days after sale or rental of property. Signs may not measure more
than six square feet in R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, R-6, R-B and B-1 Districts, or
more than 32 square feet in all other districts. There shall be only one sign
per premises. Corner properties, however, may contain two signs, one per
frontage;
      (8)   Signs for the purpose of leasing or renting dwelling units in
buildings containing two or more units. Five square feet, located on building,
one per complex;
      (9)   Informational/directional signs. Such signs shall not be larger
than two square feet in R-1, R-2 and R-3 Zones, and five square feet in all
other zones; except that, in the B-2 District, Highway Business Sign Overlay
District, such sign shall not exceed 12 square feet. If freestanding, the total
height may not exceed six feet and can be no closer than five feet from all
property lines;
      (10)   Water towers. May have identification of owner; and
      (11)   Gas station pump island signs. Other than informational/
directional signs, shall not be larger than four square feet, or more than one
per gas pump.
   (B)   Sections
153.25 through
153.31 of this chapter concern signs which require application and permit.
(1992 Code, § 330:50)
ZONING DISTRICTS; COMPLIANCE
§ 153.25 AGRICULTURE AND RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   All signs must comply with the following regulations.
   (A)   Institutional identification signs.
      (1)   Freestanding signs.
         (a)   One freestanding sign per property, except property abutting two
or more public rights-of-way shall be allowed an additional freestanding sign
per right-of-way.
         (b)   Such sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
         (c)   Such sign shall not exceed eight feet in height.
         (d)   Such sign structure shall be at least ten feet from all property
lines.
      (2)   Wall signs.
         (a)   Each property shall be limited to 32 square feet of total sign
area, except property abutting two or more public rights-of-way shall be
allowed an additional 32 square feet per right-of-way.
         (b)   Such sign shall not extend beyond the top of parapet wall.
   (B)   Area identification signs; freestanding signs.
      (1)   Such sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
      (2)   Such sign shall not exceed eight feet in height.
      (3)   Such sign structure shall be at least ten feet from all property
lines.
(1992 Code, § 330:55) (Ord. 1224, passed 1-4-2000)
§ 153.26 R-B DISTRICT.
   All signs must comply with the following regulations:
   (A)   Signs as regulated in §
153.25 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Business signs:
      (1)   Freestanding signs.
         (a)   One freestanding sign per property, except property abutting two
or more public rights-of-way shall be allowed an additional freestanding sign
per right-of-way.
         (b)   Such signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
         (c)   Such signs shall not exceed eight feet in height.
         (d)   The posts of such sign shall be at least five feet from all
property lines with no portion of the sign projecting over property lines.
      (2)   Wall signs.
         (a)   Each property shall be limited to 32 square feet of total sign
area, except property abutting two or more public rights-of-way shall be
allowed an additional 32 square feet per right-of-way.
         (b)   Such sign shall not extend beyond the top of parapet wall.
(1992 Code, § 330:60) (Ord. 1224, passed 1-4-2000)
§ 153.27 B-1 DISTRICT.
   All signs must comply with the following regulations concerning business
signs.
   (A)   Freestanding signs.
      (1)   One freestanding sign per property.
      (2)   Such sign shall not exceed 50 square feet in area.
      (3)   Such sign shall not exceed 20 feet in height.
      (4)   Post for such sign shall be at least five feet from all property
lines with no portion of the sign projecting over property lines.
   (B)   Wall signs.
      (1)   Such signs shall not exceed 50 square feet per business.
      (2)   Such signs shall not extend higher than top of parapet wall.
(1992 Code, § 330:65) (Ord. 1217, passed 11-16-1999)
§ 153.28 B-2 DISTRICT.
   (A)   All signs must comply with the following regulations concerning
business signs.
      (1)   Freestanding signs.
         (a)   One freestanding sign per property except property abutting two
or more public rights-of-way shall be allowed an additional freestanding sign
per right-of-way.
         (b)   Such sign shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
         (c)   Such sign shall not exceed 100 square feet in area.
         (d)   The posts for such sign shall be at least five feet from all
property lines with no portion of the sign projecting over property lines.
      (2)   Wall signs.
         (a)   Each property shall be limited to 50 square feet of total sign
area per business except for the following.
            1.   If the property abuts two or more public rights-of-way, an
additional 50 square feet per business shall be permitted for each right-of-
way.
            2.   If a business does not intend to install or participate in the
installation of a freestanding sign, the wall signage may be increased by 100
square feet.
            3.   If the building is larger than 4,000 square feet, the wall
signage may be increased one square foot per 100 square feet in excess of 4,000
square feet up to an additional 250 square feet per business.
         (b)   Projecting signs shall not project more than five feet beyond
the building line, nor shall such signs project over property lines, nor extend
more than four feet above the top of the wall surface on which they are
located.
(1992 Code, § 330:70)
   (B)   B-2 District - Highway Business Sign Overlay District. Because of
their proximity to higher speed thoroughfares, certain areas of the city zoned
B-2 require larger signs than the property zoned B-2 located along low speed
streets. The Highway Business Sign Overlay District provides for less
restrictive sign requirements for those businesses along major highways, which
are in a large part dependent upon attracting transient traffic. The location
and boundaries of the Highway Business Sign Overlay District are hereby set
forth on the map entitled “Highway Business Sign Overlay District Map of
Owatonna”, dated 2012, as may be amended from time to time. Said map is hereby
made a part of this chapter by reference. Within this district, all signs must
comply with the following regulations.
      (1)   Business signs.
         (a)   Freestanding signs.
            1.   One freestanding sign per property except property abutting
two or more public rights-of-way shall be allowed an additional freestanding
sign per right-of-way.
            2.   Such sign shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
            3.   Such sign shall not exceed 200 square feet in area.
            4.   The posts for such sign shall be at least five feet from all
property lines with no portion of the sign projecting over property lines.
         (b)   Wall signs.
            1.   Each property shall be limited to 100 square feet of total
sign area per business, except for the following.
               a.   If the property abuts two or more public rights-of-way, an
additional 100 square feet per business shall be permitted for each right-of-
way.
               b.   If a business does not intend to install or participate in
the installation of a freestanding sign, the wall signage may be increased by
100 square feet.
               c.   If the building is larger than 2,000 square feet, the wall
signage may be increased one square foot per 100 square feet in excess of 2,000
square feet up to an additional 300 square feet per business.
            2.   Projecting signs shall not project more than five feet beyond
the building line, nor shall such signs project over property lines, nor extend
more than four feet above the top of the wall surface on which they are
located.
      (2)   Height regulations. Freestanding signs in excess of 35 feet in
height and/or in excess of 200 square feet in area are permitted; provided
that, the following conditions are met.
         (a)   Such signs shall be located at least 400 feet from any
residential district.
         (b)   Such sign shall be at least 100 feet from any other business
sign over 35 feet in height.
         (c)   Such sign shall not exceed 50 feet in height or 300 square feet
in area.
(1992 Code, § 330:75)
(Ord. 1134, passed 3-4-1996; Ord. 1194, passed 11-2-1998; Ord. 1217, passed 11-
16-1999; Ord. 1457, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 153.29 B-3 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   All signs must comply with the following regulations.
   (A)   Business signs.
      (1)   Freestanding signs.
         (a)   A ground sign shall not exceed six feet in height and 32 square
feet in area.
         (b)   Pylon signs shall not be allowed.
      (2)   Wall signs. Each property shall be limited to 32 square feet of
total sign area per business, except for the following.
         (a)   If the property abuts two or more public rights-of-way, an
additional 32 square feet per business shall be permitted for each right-of-way
including alleys.
         (b)   If the business is larger than 2,000 square feet, the wall
signage may be increased one square foot per 100 square feet in excess of 2,000
square feet up to an additional 32 square feet per business for each street
right-of-way including alleys.
      (3)   Projecting signs.
         (a)   Signs shall not project more than four feet beyond the building
line, nor extend above the top of the wall surface on which they are located.
         (b)   Signs projecting over public right-of-way require a building
permit.
         (c)   Signs shall not exceed 16 square feet in surface area.
         (d)   Signs must be a minimum of two feet from the curb line.
   (B)   Illuminated signs.
      (1)   External illumination of signs is permitted.
      (2)   Internal illumination of signs shall not be permitted.
      (3)   Electronic message signs shall not be permitted.
(1992 Code, § 330:80) (Ord. 1217, passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 1404, passed 11-21-
2006)
§ 153.30 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   All signs must comply with the following regulations:
   (A)   Business signs as regulated in §
153.28(B)(1) of this chapter;
   (B)   Advertising signs (billboards) shall be a conditional use in
Industrial Districts, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Must be located at least eight feet above grade, and not more than
35 feet above grade;
      (2)   Maximum square footage cannot exceed 850 square feet;
      (3)   Must be located five feet from all property lines, and not closer
than 500 feet from any residential zoned property;
      (4)   No advertising sign shall be located closer than 500 feet from any
other advertising sign;
      (5)   All advertising signs must meet federal and state criteria. State
permits will be required when structures are adjacent to federal or state aid
highways within the boundary of the city limits;
      (6)   Advertising signs shall be located no further than 500 feet from
the right-of-way of a major state or federal highway, and be oriented in such a
way as to be viewed primarily by traffic on that highway. Such signs shall be
permitted only on undeveloped property or lots; and
      (7)   (a)   In the I-P Industrial Park District, advertising signs shall
be permitted only on undeveloped property or lots.
         (b)   Such signs shall be considered a temporary use and shall be
removed when property or lots are developed.
         (c)   For the purposes of this division (B)(7), undeveloped property
or lots shall include land in agricultural production.
(1992 Code, § 330:90) (Ord. 1097, passed 11-1-1994; Ord. 1111, passed 5-2-1995;
Ord. 1209, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 153.31 HIGHWAY BUSINESS SIGN OVERLAY DISTRICT MAP.
   The Original Highway Business Sign Overlay District map and any and all
amendments thereto is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if
set out in full.
(Ord. 1177, passed 12-2-1997; Ord. 1204, passed 4-6-1999; Ord. 1244, passed 10-
3-2000)
PERMITS AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.45 SIGN APPLICATION.
   No person shall erect, construct, install or otherwise provide any sign
permitted in §§
153.25 through
153.30 of this chapter without first making application for a permit on a form
providing the following information and paying the required fee:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of person making application;
   (B)   Name, address and telephone number of person owning sign;
   (C)   Name, address and telephone number of property owner;
   (D)   Name, address and telephone number of sign hanger;
   (E)   A site plan to scale showing the location of lot lines, building
structures, parking areas, existing and proposed signs and any other physical
features;
   (F)   Plans, location and specifications and method of construction and
attachment to the building or placement method in the ground;
   (G)   Copy of stress sheets and calculators showing that the structure is
designed for dead load and wind pressure in any direction in the amount
required by this and all other laws and ordinances of the city;
   (H)   Written consent of the owner or lessee of any site on which the sign
is to be erected;
   (I)   Any electrical permit required and issued for said sign; and
   (J)   Such other information as the Building Inspector shall require to show
full compliance with this and all other laws and ordinances of the city. The
Building Inspector may waive divisions (E), (F) and (G) above.
(1992 Code, § 330:95)
§ 153.46 PERMIT ISSUED IF APPLICATION IN ORDER.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector, upon the filing of an
application for a permit, to examine such plans, specifications and other data,
and the premises upon which it is proposed to erect the sign. If it shall
appear that the proposed structure is in compliance with all the requirements
of this chapter and all other laws and ordinances of the city, the permit shall
then be issued. If the work authorized under a permit has not been completed
within one year after the date of issuance, the permit shall be null and void.
(1992 Code, § 330:100)
§ 153.47 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Payment fees. The permit fee and other fees and charges set forth in
this chapter shall be collected by the city before the issuance of any permits
and the Building Inspector or other persons duly authorized to issue such
permit for which the payment of a fee is required under the provisions of this
chapter may not issue a permit until such fee shall have been paid.
   (B)   Permit fees. A sign permit fee shall be as established from time to
time by the City Council.
   (C)   Special permit fees. Special permit fees shall be assessed for all
attention-seeking devices as described in §
153.08 of this chapter. The fee shall be in an amount duly established by the
Council from time to time for each permit.
(1992 Code, § 330:105)
§ 153.48 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person erecting signs in the city shall, before a permit is granted to
install, erect or repair a sign or sign structure in the public right-of-way,
or which sign would be in the public right-of-way if laid down, shall file with
the city’s Building Inspector a certificate of liability insurance, including
completed operations insurance, of not less than $300,000 combined single limit
or equivalent, and the city shall be a named additional insured.
(1992 Code, § 330:113)
§ 153.49 VARIANCE REQUESTS.
   (A)   In order to provide flexibility in the enforcement of this chapter and
to alleviate hardship and injustice, the City Council may, upon application,
grant a variance from the terms of this chapter. Fees for such application will
be in an amount to be determined by the Council from time to time and listed in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances and must be filed with the Building Inspector
at least 15 days prior to the appropriate Planning Commission meeting.
   (B)   Upon application therefor from the person seeking a permit for the
erection or installation of a sign, the Building Inspector and Planning
Commission, serving as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals, shall hold a public
hearing and make a finding of fact and may grant such variation based upon
consideration of the following:
      (1)   The particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific parcel of land involved;
      (2)   The condition involved is unique to the particular parcel of land
involved;
      (3)   The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by this chapter and
has not been created by any persons presently having an interest in the parcel;
      (4)   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other land or improvements to the neighborhood; and
      (5)   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion of the
public streets, or interfere with the function of the Police and Fire
Departments of the city.
(1992 Code, § 330:115)
§ 153.50 COMPLIANCE.
   If an existing non-conforming sign is found to be not in compliance with
ordinance height and/or sign area requirements, it shall be the duty of the
Planning Commission and the Board of Adjustment and Appeals to consider a
variance application and make a finding of fact based upon consideration of the
following:
   (A)   Present replacement value of sign, sign structure and initial
investment of same;
   (B)   Structural and/or superficial condition of sign and sign structure;
and
   (C)   Age of sign and sign structure.
(1992 Code, § 330:120)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   If the Building inspector or any other authorized agent of the city shall
find any sign in violation of the terms of this chapter, the Building Inspector
or agent thereof shall serve written notice of such fact upon the owner,
lessee, occupant or any agent or person having the care or control of such sign
or signs. Such notice shall specify a time period within which the sign(s) must
be brought into compliance. The penalty for disregarding proper notice shall be
assessed in accordance with procedures as established in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1992 Code, § 330:125)
CHAPTER 154: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Statutory authorization
   
154.002   Findings of fact
   
154.003   Statement of purpose
   
154.004   Incorporation into Zoning Ordinance; lands to which chapter applies
   
154.005   Establishment of official floodplain zoning map
   
154.006   Regulatory flood protection elevation
   
154.007   Interpretation
   
154.008   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.009   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.010   Severability
   
154.011   Definitions
   
154.012   Annexations
   
154.013   Non-conforming uses
   
154.014   Amendments
Zoning Districts
   
154.025   Districts
   
154.026   Compliance
Floodway District (FW)
   
154.040   Permitted uses
   
154.041   Standards for permitted uses
   
154.042   Conditional uses
   
154.043   Standards for conditional uses
Flood Fringe District (FF)
   
154.055   Permitted uses
   
154.056   Standards for permitted uses
   
154.057   Conditional uses
   
154.058   Standards for conditional uses
   
154.059   Standards for all uses
General Floodplain District
   
154.070   Permissible uses
   
154.071   Procedures for floodway and flood fringe determinations
Subdivisions
   
154.085   Land suitability review criteria
   
154.086   Requirements for floodway/flood fringe determinations
   
154.087   Removal of special flood hazard area designations
Utilities, Railroads, Roads and Bridges
   
154.100   Public utilities
   
154.101   Public transportation facilities
   
154.102   On-site sewage treatment and water supply systems
Manufactured Homes, Travel Trailers and Travel Vehicles
   
154.115   New manufactured home parks
   
154.116   Replacement manufactured homes; existing parks
   
154.117   Recreational vehicles
Administration
   
154.130   Zoning Administrator
   
154.131   Permits, certification requirements and record keeping
   
154.132   Appeals and variances; duties of the Board of Appeals
   
154.133   Conditional uses; standards and evaluation procedures
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The legislature of the state has, in Minn. Stat. Ch. 103F and §§
462.351 through 462.365, as they may be amended from time to time, delegated
the responsibility to local government units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses.
   (B)   Therefore, the city does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   General. The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in potential loss of life, loss of property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures or flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. This chapter is based upon a
reasonable method of analyzing flood hazards which is consistent with the
standards established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   National flood insurance program compliance. This chapter is adopted
to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood Insurance
Program codified as 44 C.F.R. parts 59 through 78, as amended, so as to
maintain the community’s eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
154.002(A) of this chapter by provisions contained herein.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.004 INCORPORATION INTO ZONING ORDINANCE; LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter, in its entirety, shall be incorporated and become
a part of the Ord. 827, and that this chapter shall be incorporated as §
157.025 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   This Floodplain District shall be applied as an overlay zone upon
the existing official zoning map. As applied to the F-P District, provisions
within this section shall take precedence over conflicting provisions elsewhere
in Ord. 827.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the
city shown on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map and/or the attachments thereto
as being located within the boundaries of the Floodway, Flood Fringe or General
Floodplain Districts.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.005 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL FLOODPLAIN ZONING MAP.
   The Official Floodplain Zoning Map together with all materials attached
thereto is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter. The Official Floodplain Zoning Map shall be comprised of Flood
Insurance Rate Map panels for Steele County, Minnesota And Incorporated Areas
numbered 27147C0043C, 27147C0044C, 27147C0063C, 27147C0132C, 27147C0135C,
27147C0142C, 27147C0151C, 27147C0152C, 27147C01S3C, 27147C0154C, 27147C0156C,
27147C0158C, 27147C0161C and 27147C0165C, all dated 12-2-2011 and prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The materials attached to the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map shall include the Flood Insurance Study, Steele County,
Minnesota, and incorporated areas dated 12-2-2011 and prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The Official Floodplain Zoning Map shall be on
file in the offices of the City Administrator and the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.006 REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   The regulatory flood protection elevation shall be an elevation no lower
than one foot above the elevation of the regional flood, plus any increases in
flood elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.007 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
   (B)   (1)   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined by
scaling distances on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
      (2)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the district as shown on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map, as
for example where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions and there is a formal appeal of the decision of the
Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall make the necessary
interpretation. All decisions will be based on elevations on the regional (100-
year) flood profile, the ground elevations that existed on the site at the time
the community adopted its initial floodplain ordinance or on the date of the
first National Flood Insurance Program map showing the area within the 100-year
floodplain if earlier, and other available technical data.
      (3)   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to present their cases to the Zoning Board of
Appeals and to submit technical evidence.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.008 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All
other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.009 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not imply that areas outside the floodplain districts or
land uses permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.010 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.011 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls or Building Codes and upon a finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in the Zoning Ordinance exist; and
      (2)   The structure and/or land use conform to the comprehensive land use
plan if one exists and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage
of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway. FLOOD
FRINGE is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the Flood Insurance
Study for Steele County, Minnesota and incorporated areas.
   FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages,
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term “recreational vehicle”.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory floodplain which may impede,
retard or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by
catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
   PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE. All uses or structures that are not accessory
uses or structures.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or human-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a REACH.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently table by a light duty truck and is
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use. For the purposes of
this chapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall be synonymous with the term
TRAVEL TRAILER/ TRAVEL VEHICLE.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE FLOOD used
in a flood insurance study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be an elevation no lower than one foot above the elevation of
the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.
   STRUCTURE. Any thing constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, recreational
vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in §
154.117(A) of this chapter and other similar items.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Within any consecutive 365-day period, any reconstruction,
rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair), repair after damage,
addition or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the “start of
construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures that have
incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure. For the purpose of this chapter, “historic structure” shall
be as defined in 44 C.F.R. part 59.1.
   VARIANCE. A modification of a specific permitted development standard
required in an official control including this chapter to allow an alternative
development standard not stated as acceptable in the official control, but only
as applied to a particular property for the purpose of alleviating a hardship,
practical difficulty or unique circumstance as defined and elaborated upon in a
community’s respective planning and zoning enabling legislation.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.012 ANNEXATIONS.
   The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted by reference into §
154.005 of this chapter may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the
corporate boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this chapter. If
any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the city after the date of
adoption of this chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands shall be subject
to the provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of annexation into
the city.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.013 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to the following
conditions. Historic structures, as defined in §
154.011 of this chapter, shall be subject to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged or altered in a way
that increases its non-conformity.
   (C)   Any structural alteration or addition to a non-conforming structure or
non-conforming use which would result in increasing the flood damage potential
of that structure or use shall be protected to the regulatory flood protection
elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or floodproofing
techniques (i.e., FP-1 through FP-4 floodproofing classifications) allowable in
the State Building Code, except as further restricted below.
   (D)   If any non-conforming use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months,
any future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The
Assessor shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of instances of non-
conforming uses that have been discontinued for a period of 12 months.
   (E)   If any non-conforming use or structure is substantially damaged, as
defined in §
154.011 of this chapter, it shall not be reconstructed, except in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing
new uses or new structures in §§
154.040 through
154.043,
154.055 through
154.059 and
154.070 and
154.071 of this chapter will apply depending upon whether the use or structure
is in the Floodway, Flood Fringe or General Floodplain District, respectively.
   (F)   If a substantial improvement occurs, as defined in §
154.011 of this chapter, from any combination of a building addition to the
outside dimensions of the existing building or a rehabilitation,
reconstruction, alteration or other improvement to the inside dimensions of an
existing non-conforming building, then the building addition and the existing
non-conforming building must meet the requirements of §§
154.040 through
154.043 and
154.055 through
154.059 of this chapter for new structures, depending upon whether the
structure is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively. If a
substantial improvement occurs only from a building addition, then the building
addition must meet the elevation on fill or FP-1 or FP-2 dry floodproofing
requirements of §§
154.040 through
154.043 and
154.055 through
154.059 of this chapter for new structures and the existing structure must also
meet the elevation on fill or FP-1 or FP-2 dry floodproofing requirements of §§
154.040 through
154.043 and
154.055 through
154.059 of this chapter for new structures if any alteration is made to the
common wall in excess of installing a standard doorway.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.014 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The floodplain designation on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map shall
not be removed from floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the
designation is in error or that the area has been filled to or above the
elevation of the regulatory flood protection elevation and is contiguous to
lands outside the floodplain. Special exceptions to this rule may be permitted
by the Commissioner of Natural Resources if he or she determines that, through
other measures, lands are adequately protected for the intended use.
   (B)   All amendments to this chapter, including amendments to the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map, must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of
Natural Resources prior to adoption. Changes in the Official Floodplain Zoning
Map must meet the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) technical
conditions and criteria and must receive prior FEMA approval before adoption.
The Commissioner of Natural Resources must be given ten days’ written notice of
all hearings to consider an amendment to this chapter and said notice shall
include a draft of the chapter amendment or technical study under
consideration.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.025 DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Floodway District. The Floodway District shall include those areas
designated as floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
154.005 of this chapter.
   (B)   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District shall include those
areas designated as floodway fringe. The Flood Fringe District shall include
those areas shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map as adopted in §
154.005 of this chapter as being within Zones AE, but being located outside of
the floodway.
   (C)   General Floodplain District. The General Floodplain District shall
include those areas designated as Zone A on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
adopted in §
154.005 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.026 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no structure
shall be constructed, located, extended, converted or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (B)   Within the Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts,
all uses not listed as permitted uses or conditional uses in §§
154.040 through
154.043,
154.055 through
154.059 and
154.070 and
154.071 of this chapter shall be prohibited.
   (C)   In addition, a caution is provided here that:
      (1)   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes and certain
travel trailers and travel vehicles are subject to the general provisions of
this chapter and specifically §§
154.115 through
154.117 of this chapter;
      (2)   Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal
maintenance and repair, or repair after damage to existing non-conforming
structures and non-conforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the
general provisions of this chapter and specifically §
154.013 of this chapter; and
      (3)   As-built elevations for elevated or floodproofed structures must be
certified by ground surveys and floodproofing techniques must be designed and
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as specified in
the general provisions of this chapter and specifically as stated in §§
154.130 through
154.133 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW)
§ 154.040 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming and wild crop harvesting;
   (B)   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas and airport landing
strips;
   (C)   Private and public golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges,
archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks,
wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves,
target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and single- or
multiple-purpose recreational trails; and
   (D)   Residential lawns, gardens, parking areas and play areas.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.041 STANDARDS FOR PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The use shall have a low flood damage potential.
   (B)   The use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning district if one
exists.
   (C)   The use shall not obstruct flood flows or increase flood elevations
and shall not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or storage of
materials or equipment.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.042 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Structures accessory to the uses listed in §
154.040 of this chapter and the uses listed in divisions (B) through (H) below;
   (B)   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel and other materials;
   (C)   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves and water control
structures;
   (D)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and pipelines;
   (E)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery or materials;
   (F)   Placement of fill or construction of fences;
   (G)   Recreational vehicles either on individual lots of record or in
existing or new subdivisions or commercial or condominium type campgrounds,
subject to the exemptions and provisions of §
154.115 of this chapter; and
   (H)   Structural works for flood control such as levees, dikes and
floodwalls constructed to any height where the intent is to protect individual
structures and levees or dikes where the intent is to protect agricultural
crops for a frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency
flood event.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.043 STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   All uses. No structure (temporary or permanent), fill (including fill
for roads and levees), deposit, obstruction, storage of materials or equipment,
or other uses may be allowed as a conditional use that will cause any increase
in the stage of the 100-year or regional flood or cause an increase in flood
damages in the reach or reaches affected.
   (B)   Procedures and standards. All floodway conditional uses shall be
subject to the procedures and standards contained in §
154.133 of this chapter.
   (C)   Existing uses. The conditional use shall be permissible in the
underlying zoning district if one exists.
   (D)   Fill.
      (1)   Fill, dredge spoil and all other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain shall be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, riprap or other acceptable method.
      (2)   Dredge spoil sites and sand and gravel operations shall not be
allowed in the floodway unless a long-term site development plan is submitted
which includes an erosion/sedimentation prevention element to the plan.
      (3)   As an alternative, and consistent with division (D)(2) above,
dredge spoil disposal and sand and gravel operations may allow temporary, on-
site storage of fill or other materials which would have caused an increase to
the stage of the 100-year or regional flood, but only after the governing body
has received an appropriate plan which assures the removal of the materials
from the floodway based upon the flood warning time available. The conditional
use permit must be title registered with the property in the office of the
County Recorder.
   (E)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be designed for human habitation.
      (2)   Accessory structures, if permitted, shall be constructed and placed
on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of
flood waters.
         (a)   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow.
         (b)   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed approximately
on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally dry
floodproofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 floodproofing classifications
in the State Building Code. As an alternative, an accessory structure may be
floodproofed to the FP-3 or BP-4 floodproofing classification in the State
Building Code; provided, the accessory structure constitutes a minimal
investment, does not exceed 500 square feet in size at its largest projection,
and for a detached garage, the detached garage must be used solely for parking
of vehicles and limited storage. All floodproofed accessory structures must
meet the following additional standards.
         (a)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed to equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
         (b)   Any mechanical and utility equipment in a structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or properly
floodproofed.
         (c)   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
must be a minimum of two “automatic” openings in the outside walls of the
structure having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. There must be openings on at
least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings must be no
higher than one foot above the lowest adjacent grade to the structure. Using
human intervention to open a garage door prior to flooding will not satisfy
this requirement for automatic openings.
   (F)   Storage of materials and equipment.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
      (2)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if readily
removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning and in
accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
   (G)   Structural works.
      (1)   (a)   Structural works for flood control that will change the
course, current or cross-section of protected wetlands or public waters shall
be subject to the provisions of Minn. Stat. Ch. 103G, as it may be amended from
time to time.
         (b)   Community-wide structural works for flood control intended to
remove areas from the regulatory floodplain shall not be allowed in the
floodway.
      (2)   A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in the floodway shall not
cause an increase to the 100-year or regional flood and the technical analysis
must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a stream.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF)
§ 154.055 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or structures listed as permitted
uses in the underlying zoning use district(s). If no pre-existing, underlying
zoning use districts exist, then any residential or non-residential structure
or use of a structure or land shall be a permitted use in the Flood Fringe
District; provided, such use does not constitute a public nuisance. All
permitted uses shall comply with the standards for Flood Fringe District’s
permitted uses listed in §
154.056 of this chapter and the standards for all flood fringe uses listed in §
154.059 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.056 STANDARDS FOR PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor including basement floor is at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures shall be no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood
protection elevation and the fill shall extend at such elevation at least 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the structure erected thereon.
   (B)   As an alternative to elevation on fill, accessory structures that
constitute a minimal investment and that do not exceed 500 square feet at its
largest projection may be internally floodproofed in accordance with §
154.043(E) of this chapter.
   (C)   The storage of any materials or equipment shall be elevated on fill to
the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (D)   The provisions of §
154.059 of this chapter shall apply.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.057 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Any structure that is not elevated on fill or floodproofed in
accordance with §
154.056(A) and (B) of this chapter and or any use of land that does not comply
with the standards in §
154.056(C) of this chapter shall only be allowable as a conditional use.
   (B)   An application for a conditional use shall be subject to the standards
and criteria and evaluation procedures specified in §§
154.056(D) and
154.133 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.058 STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   (1)   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may be
utilized to elevate a structure’s lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of stilts,
pilings, parallel walls and the like or above-grade, enclosed areas such as
crawl spaces or tuck under garages.
      (2)   The base or floor of an enclosed area shall be considered above-
grade and not a structure’s basement or lowest floor if:
         (a)   The enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of the
structure;
         (b)   It is designed to internally flood and is constructed with flood
resistant materials; and
         (c)   It is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage.
      (3)   The above-noted alternative elevation methods are subject to the
following additional standards.
         (a)   Design and certification. The structure’s design and as-built
condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
as being in compliance with the general design standards of the State Building
Code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities must be at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation or be designed to prevent flood water
from entering or accumulating within these components during times of flooding.
         (b)   Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed areas. Above-grade,
fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck-under garages must be
designed to internally flood and the design plans must stipulate:
            1.   A minimum area of openings in the walls where internal
flooding is to be used as a floodproofing technique. There shall be a minimum
of two openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all
openings shall be no higher than one-foot above grade. The automatic openings
shall have a minimum net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding unless a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that a smaller net area would suffice. The
automatic openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters without any form of human intervention; and
            2.   That the enclosed area will be designed of flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the State
Building Code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles
or storage.
   (B)   Basements, as defined by §
154.011 of this chapter, shall be subject to the following.
      (1)   Residential basement construction shall not be allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (2)   Non-residential basements may be allowed below the regulatory flood
protection elevation provided the basement is structurally dry floodproofed in
accordance with division (C) below.
   (C)   All areas of non-residential structures including basements to be
placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be floodproofed in
accordance with the structurally dry floodproofing classifications in the State
Building Code. Structurally dry floodproofing must meet the FP-1 or FP-
2 floodproofing classification in the State Building Code and this shall
require making the structure water-tight with the walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of
buoyancy. Structures floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 classification shall not
be permitted.
   (D)   (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
      (2)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if readily
removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning and in
accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
   (E)   The provisions of §
154.059 of this chapter shall also apply.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.059 STANDARDS FOR ALL USES.
   (A)   Commercial uses. Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad tracks
and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. However, a permit for such facilities to be used by the
employees or the general public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood
warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be
inundated to a depth and velocity such that when multiplying the depth (in
feet) times velocity (in feet per second) the product number exceeds four upon
occurrence of the regional flood.
   (B)   Manufacturing and industrial uses. Measures shall be taken to minimize
interference with normal plant operations especially along streams having
protracted flood durations. Certain accessory land uses such as yards and
parking lots may be at lower elevations subject to requirements set out in §
154.056 of this chapter. In considering permit applications, due consideration
shall be given to needs of an industry whose business requires that it be
located in floodplain areas.
   (C)   Fill. Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be
properly protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable
method. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria
for removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
   (D)   Floodplain developments. Floodplain developments shall not adversely
affect the hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any
tributary watercourse or drainage system where a floodway or other encroachment
limit has not been specified on the Official Zoning Map.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Standards for recreational vehicles are
contained in §
154.117 of this chapter.
   (F)   Manufactured homes. All manufactured homes must be securely anchored
to an adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse
and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT
§ 154.070 PERMISSIBLE USES.
   (A)   The uses listed in §
154.040 of this chapter shall be permitted uses.
   (B)   All other uses shall be subject to the floodway/flood fringe
evaluation criteria pursuant to §
154.071 of this chapter. Sections
154.040 through
154.043 of this chapter shall apply if the proposed use is in the Floodway
District and §§
154.055 through
154.059 of this chapter shall apply if the proposed use is in the Flood Fringe
District.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.071 PROCEDURES FOR FLOODWAY AND FLOOD FRINGE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit or other approval within
the General Floodplain District, the applicant shall be required to furnish
such of the following information as is deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator for the determination of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and whether the proposed use is within the Floodway or Flood Fringe
District:
      (1)   A typical valley cross-section(s) showing the channel of the
stream, elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross-
sectional areas to be occupied by the proposed development and high water
information;
      (2)   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the ground,
pertinent structure, fill or storage elevations, the size, location and spatial
arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site, and the
location and elevations of streets;
      (3)   Photographs showing existing land uses, vegetation upstream and
downstream, and soil types; and
      (4)   Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or flow line
of the stream for at least 500 feet in either direction from the proposed
development.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant shall be responsible to submit one copy of the
above information to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance in determining whether the proposed use is in the Floodway
or Flood Fringe District and to determine the regulatory flood protection
elevation.
      (2)   Procedures consistent with Minn. Rules, part 6120.5000 and
6120.6200, and 44 C.F.R. part 65 shall be followed in this expert evaluation.
      (3)   The designated engineer or expert is strongly encouraged to discuss
the proposed technical evaluation methodology with the respective Department of
Natural Resources’ Area Hydrologist prior to commencing the analysis.
      (4)   The designated engineer or expert shall:
         (a)   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional flood;
         (b)   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood based
upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas; and
         (c)   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the regional
flood without increasing flood stages more than one-half foot. A lesser stage
increase than one-half foot shall be required if, as a result of the additional
stage increase, increased flood damages would result. An equal degree of
encroachment on both sides of the stream within the reach shall be assumed in
computing floodway boundaries.
   (C)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall present the technical evaluation
and findings of the designated engineer or expert to the governing body. The
governing body must formally accept the technical evaluation and the
recommended Floodway and/or Flood Fringe District boundary or deny the permit
application.
      (2)   The governing body, prior to official action, may submit the
application and all supporting data and analyses to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, the Department of Natural Resources or the Planning
Commission for review and comment.
      (3)   Once the Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries have been
determined, the governing body shall refer the matter back to the Zoning
Administrator who shall process the permit application consistent with the
applicable provisions of §§
154.040 through
154.043 and
154.055 through
154.059 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 154.085 LAND SUITABILITY REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided which is unsuitable for the reason of
flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment facilities.
   (B)   (1)   All lots within the floodplain districts shall be able to
contain a building site outside of the Floodway District at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (2)   All subdivisions shall have water and sewage treatment facilities
that comply with the provisions of this chapter and have road access both to
the subdivision and to the individual building sites no lower than two feet
below the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (C)   For all subdivisions in the floodplain, the Floodway and Flood Fringe
District boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the required
elevation of all access roads shall be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.086 REQUIREMENTS FOR FLOODWAY/FLOOD FRINGE DETERMINATIONS.
   In the General Floodplain District, applicants shall provide the information
required in §
154.071 of this chapter to determine the 100-year flood elevation, the Floodway
and Flood Fringe District boundaries and the regulatory flood protection
elevation for the subdivision site.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.087 REMOVAL OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established
criteria for removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain
structures properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation.
   (B)   FEMA’s requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side
slope protection standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments.
   (C)   These standards should be investigated prior to the initiation of site
preparation if a change of special flood hazard area designation will be
requested.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS AND BRIDGES
§ 154.100 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   All public utilities and facilities such as gas, electrical, sewer and water
supply systems to be located in the floodplain shall be floodproofed in
accordance with the State Building Code or elevated to above the regulatory
flood protection elevation.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.101 PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Railroad tracks, roads and bridges to be located within the floodplain
shall comply with §§
154.040 through
154.043 and
154.055 through
154.059 of this chapter.
   (B)   Elevation to the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be
provided where failure or interruption of these transportation facilities would
result in danger to the public health or safety or where such facilities are
essential to the orderly functioning of the area.
   (C)   Minor or auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower
elevation where failure or interruption of transportation services would not
endanger the public health or safety.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.102 ON-SITE SEWAGE TREATMENT AND WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where public utilities are not provided:
      (1)   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
      (2)   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into flood waters and they shall not be subject
to impairment or contamination during times of flooding.
   (B)   Any sewage treatment system designed in accordance with the state’s
current statewide standards for on-site sewage treatment systems shall be
determined to be in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
MANUFACTURED HOMES, TRAVEL TRAILERS AND TRAVEL VEHICLES
§ 154.115 NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing manufactured home
parks shall be subject to the provisions placed on subdivisions by §§
154.085 through
154.087 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.116 REPLACEMENT MANUFACTURED HOMES; EXISTING PARKS.
   (A)   The placement of new or replacement manufactured homes in existing
manufactured home parks or on individual lots of record that are located in
floodplain districts will be treated as a new structure and may be placed only
if elevated in compliance with §§
154.055 through
154.059 of this chapter.
   (B)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.117 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria specified in
division (A) below shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter and as
specifically spelled out in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (A)   Exemption. Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter if they are placed in any of the areas listed in division (B)
below and further they meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Have current licenses required for highway use;
      (2)   Are highway ready meaning on wheels or the internal jacking system,
are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities commonly used
in campgrounds and trailer parks and recreational vehicle parks and the
recreational vehicle has no permanent structural type additions attached to it;
and
      (3)   The recreational vehicle and associated use must be permissible in
any pre-existing underlying zoning use district.
   (B)   Areas exempted for placement of recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Individual lots or parcels of record;
      (2)   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds; and
      (3)   Existing condominium type associations.
   (C)   Losing exemption.
      (1)   Recreational vehicles exempted in division (A) above lose this
exemption when development occurs on the parcel exceeding $500 for a structural
addition to the recreational vehicle or exceeding $500 for an accessory
structure such as a garage or storage building. The recreational vehicle and
all additions and accessory structures will then be treated as a new structure
and shall be subject to the elevation/floodproofing requirements and the use of
land restrictions specified in §§
154.040 through
154.043 and
154.055 through
154.059 of this chapter.
      (2)   There shall be no development or improvement on the parcel or
attachment to the recreational vehicle that hinders the removal of the
recreational vehicle to a flood free location should flooding occur.
   (D)   Specific parks and campgrounds. New commercial recreational vehicle
parks or campgrounds and new residential type subdivisions and condominium
associations and the expansion of any existing similar use exceeding five units
or dwelling sites shall be subject to the following.
      (1)   Any new or replacement recreational vehicle will be allowed in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe Districts; provided, said recreational vehicle and its
contents are placed on fill above the regulatory flood protection elevation and
proper elevated road access to the site exists no lower than two feet below the
regulatory flood protection elevation. No fill placed in the floodway to meet
the requirements of this section shall increase flood stages of the 100-year or
regional flood.
      (2)   All new or replacement recreational vehicles not meeting the
criteria of division (D)(1) above may, as an alternative, be allowed as a
conditional use if in accordance with the following provisions and the
provisions of §
154.133 of this chapter. The applicant must submit an emergency plan for the
safe evacuation of all vehicles and people during the 100-year flood. Said plan
shall be prepared by a registered engineer or other qualified individual, shall
demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the evacuation
and shall demonstrate the provisions of divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above will
be met. All attendant sewage and water facilities for new or replacement
recreational vehicles must be protected or constructed so as to not be impaired
or contaminated during times of flooding in accordance with §
154.102 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.130 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   A Zoning Administrator or other official designated by the governing body
shall administer and enforce this chapter. If the Zoning Administrator finds a
violation of fire provisions of this chapter the Zoning Administrator shall
notify the person responsible for such violation in accordance with the
procedures stated in §
154.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.131 PERMITS, CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS AND RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Permit required. A floodplain permit issued by the Zoning
Administrator in conformity with the provisions of this chapter shall be
secured prior to the erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation
(including normal maintenance and repair), or alteration of any building,
structure or portion thereof; prior to the use or change of use of a building,
structure or land; prior to the construction of a dam, fence or on-site septic
system; prior to the change or extension of a non-conforming use; prior to the
repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire, tornado or any
other source; and prior to the placement of fill, excavation of materials or
the storage of materials or equipment within the floodplain.
   (B)   Application for floodplain permit. Application for a permit shall be
made in duplicate to the Zoning Administrator on forms furnished by the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following where applicable: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill or storage of
materials; and the location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel.
   (C)   State and federal permits. Prior to granting a permit or processing an
application for a conditional use permit or variance, the Zoning Administrator
shall determine that the applicant has obtained all necessary state and federal
permits.
   (D)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered or non-conforming
use. It shall be unlawful to use, occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises or part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed,
converted, altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of
zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning Administrator stating
that the use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (E)   Construction and use to be as provided on applications, plans,
permits, variances and certificates of zoning compliance. Permits, conditional
use permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
approved plans and applications authorize only the use, arrangement and
construction set forth in such approved plans and applications, and no other
use, arrangement or construction. Any use, arrangement or construction at
variance with, that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter, and
punishable as provided by §
154.999 of this chapter.
   (F)   Certification. The applicant shall be required to submit certification
by a registered professional engineer, registered architect or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Floodproofing measures shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or registered architect.
   (G)   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning Administrator shall
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
floodplain. The Zoning Administrator shall also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures or alterations and additions to structures are
floodproofed.
   (H)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. The Zoning Administrator
shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the Commissioner
of the Department of Natural Resources prior to the community authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has applied for a
permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to Minn. Stat. Ch. 103G,
as it may be amended from time to time, this shall suffice as adequate notice
to the Commissioner of Natural Resources. A copy of said notification shall
also be submitted to the Chicago Regional Office of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   (I)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease the
100-year flood elevation. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six
months after the date such supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes
by submitting a copy of said technical or scientific data.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.132 APPEALS AND VARIANCES; DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Rules. The Board of Appeals shall adopt rules for the conduct of
business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on such boards by state
law.
   (B)   Administrative review. The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision
or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Variances. The Board of Appeals may authorize upon appeal in specific
cases where such relief or variance from the terms of this chapter as will not
be contrary to the public interest and only for those circumstances such as
hardship, practical difficulties or circumstances unique to the property under
consideration, as provided for in the respective enabling legislation for
planning and zoning for cities or counties as appropriate. In the granting of
such variance, the Board of Appeals shall clearly identify in writing the
specific conditions that existed consistent with the criteria specified in this
chapter, any other zoning regulations in the community, and in the respective
enabling legislation that justified the granting of the variance. No variance
shall have the effect of allowing in any district uses prohibited in that
district; permit a lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood
protection elevation for the particular area, or permit standards lower than
those required by state law. The following additional variance criteria of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued by a community within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued by a community upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
   (D)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Board of Appeals of an appeal from a
decision of the Zoning Administrator, or an application for a variance, the
Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing and give due notice
to the parries in interest as specified by law. Hearings shall be conducted as
provided for in Ord. 827. The Board of Appeals shall submit by mail to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the application for proposed
variances sufficiently in advance so that the Commissioner will receive at
least ten days’ notice of the hearing.
   (E)   Decisions.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall arrive at a decision on such appeal
or variance within 30 days. In passing upon an appeal, the Board of Adjustment
may, so long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Administrator or other
public official. It shall make its decision in writing setting forth the
findings of fact and the reasons for its decisions.
      (2)   In granting a variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards such as those specified in §
154.133(G) of this chapter, which are in conformity with the purposes of this
chapter. Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter punishable under §
154.999 of this chapter.
      (3)   A copy of all decisions granting variances shall be forwarded by
mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of such action. A
decision rendered in accordance with the terms of this section, which grants a
variance, shall be stayed until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
City Council. During that time, the City Council shall have authority to
reverse the decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals. A denial by the Zoning
Board of Appeals of a request for variance may be appealed to the City Council,
subject to the procedures established in Ord. 827 and payment of fees
established in Ord. 827.
      (4)   Upon filing of such application for appeal and payment of the
applicable fees, the Zoning Administrator shall forward to the City Council the
request for hearing of appeal along with the findings of fact of the Zoning
Board of Appeals and transcript of hearing held by the Zoning Board of Appeals
on the matter. The City Council shall set a day and time when the said appeal
will be held and advertise the said hearing and notify parties of interest as
in the original hearing by the Zoning Board of Appeals and shall conduct the
said hearing. Within 30 days following the close of the public hearing, the
City Council shall render its decision either concurring with the Board of
Appeals or overturning its denial of the variance. The City Council shall be
bound by the same rules of procedure and findings of fact as the Board of
Appeals.
      (5)   In granting a variance, the Board or City Council may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards such as those specified in §
154.133(G) of this chapter. Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when
made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter punishable under §
154.999 of this chapter. A copy of all decisions granting variance shall be
forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of
such action. Notwithstanding the above language, deadlines for action by the
Board of Appeals and City Council must meet any applicable requirements as
established in state law.
   (F)   Appeals. Appeals from any decision of the Board of Appeals may be
made, and as specified in this community’s official controls and also by state
statutes.
   (G)   Flood insurance notice and record keeping.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant for a variance
that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the 100-year or regional flood level
increases risks to life and property.
      (2)   Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance
actions. A community shall maintain a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance, and report such variances issued in its
annual or biennial report submitted to the Administrator of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.133 CONDITIONAL USES; STANDARDS AND EVALUATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General. The Planning Commission shall hear and decide applications
for conditional uses permissible under this chapter. Applications shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator who shall forward the application to the
Planning Commission for consideration.
   (B)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Zoning Administrator an application for
a conditional use permit, the Zoning Administrator shall submit by mail to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the application for proposed
conditional use sufficiently in advance so that the Commissioner will receive
at least ten days’ notice of the hearing,
   (C)   Decisions. The Planning Commission shall arrive at a decision on a
conditional use within 30 days. In granting a conditional use permit, the
Planning Commission shall prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards, in
addition to those specified in division (G) below, which are in conformity with
the purposes of this chapter. Violations of such conditions and safeguards,
when made a part of the terms under which the conditional use permit is
granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter punishable under §
154.999 of this chapter. The Planning Commission shall submit its
recommendation to the City Council for its official action. The Council shall
act on the application within 30 days of receiving the recommendation of the
Planning Commission and shall be bound by the same rules of procedure as the
Planning Commission. A copy of all decisions granting conditional use permits
shall be forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten
days of such action. Notwithstanding the above language, deadlines for action
by the Board of Appeals and City Council must meet any applicable requirements
as established in state law.
   (D)   Procedures to be followed in passing conditional use permit
applications within all floodplain districts.
      (1)   Require the applicant to furnish such of the following information
and additional information as deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator for
determining the suitability of the particular site for the proposed use:
         (a)   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, floodproofing measures and the relationship of the above
to the location of the stream channel; and
         (b)   Specifications for building construction and materials,
floodproofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
      (2)   Transmit one copy of the information described in division (D)(1)
above a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for technical
assistance, where necessary, in evaluating the proposed project in relation to
flood heights and velocities, the seriousness of flood damage to the use, the
adequacy of the plans for protection and other technical matters; and
      (3)   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer or
expert, the Planning Commission shall determine the specific flood hazard at
the site and evaluate the suitability of the proposed use in relation to the
flood hazard.
   (E)   Factors upon which the decision granting or denying the conditional
use shall be based. In passing upon conditional use applications, all relevant
factors specified in other sections of this chapter shall be considered, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others or they may block bridges, culverts or other
hydraulic structures;
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (5)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use;
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for the area;
      (10)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and
      (12)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
chapter.
   (F)   Time for acting on application. The Planning Commission shall act on
an application in the manner described above within 30 days from receiving the
application; except that, where additional information is required pursuant to
division (E) above. The Planning Commission shall render a written decision
within 30 days from the receipt of such additional information.
   (G)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. Upon consideration of
the factors listed above and the purpose of this chapter, the Planning
Commission and City Council shall attach such conditions to the granting of
conditional use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this
chapter. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities;
      (2)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy and operation;
      (3)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed restrictions;
      (4)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees and other protective measures; and
      (5)   Floodproofing measures, in accordance with the State Building Code
and this chapter. The applicant shall submit a plan or document certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing measures
are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and associated
flood factors for the particular area.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. Such actions
may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   In responding to a suspected chapter violation, the Zoning
Administrator and local government may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The community must act in good faith to
enforce these official controls and to correct chapter violations to the extent
possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program;
      (2)   When an chapter violation is either discovered by or brought to the
attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural
Resources’ and Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Office along with
the community’s plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible;
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the community, If the construction or development is
already completed, then the Zoning Administrator may either:
         (a)   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be
made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
         (b)   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30
days.
      (4)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter and shall
be prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also upon the lapse
of the specified response period notify the landowner to restore the land to
the condition which existed prior to the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1475, passed 11-1-2011)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose and intent
   
155.003   Authority
   
155.004   Jurisdiction
   
155.005   Separability
   
155.006   Conflict
   
155.007   Effect of subdivision approval
   
155.008   Definitions
   
155.009   Recording and conveying
   
155.010   Validity
Plat Submission; General Procedures
   
155.025   Preliminary sketch review
   
155.026   Preliminary plat procedure
   
155.027   Final plat procedures
   
155.028   Preliminary plat; necessary data
   
155.029   Preliminary plat; qualifications governing approval
   
155.030   Final play; necessary data
   
155.031   Information to be shown on final plat
Minimum Design Standards
   
155.045   Conformity with Comprehensive Plan
   
155.046   Street plan
   
155.047   Streets; minimum standards
   
155.048   Curbs and gutters
   
155.049   Pedestrian ways
   
155.050   Easements
   
155.051   Street names
   
155.052   Blocks
   
155.053   Lots
   
155.054   Public sites and open spaces
Required On-Site Improvements
   
155.065   Generally
   
155.066   Monuments
   
155.067   Street and alley improvements
   
155.068   Curbs and gutters
   
155.069   Sidewalks and pedestrian ways
   
155.070   Street signs
   
155.071   Underground cable television and telephone service
   
155.072   Sanitary sewers
   
155.073   Storm sewer and sump pump line drainage
   
155.074   Water, gas and electric service
Financing and Construction of Improvements
   
155.085   Payment of installation of improvements
   
155.086   City construction
   
155.087   Required agreement providing for proper installation of improvements
   
155.088   Engineering and design of improvements
   
155.089   Inspection
   
155.090   Improvements completed prior to approval of final plat
Modifications, Exceptions and Variances
   
155.105   Minor subdivisions
   
155.106   Planned unit development
   
155.107   Variances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision Ordinance of the City of
Owatonna”.
(1992 Code, § 315:00) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Each new subdivision becomes a permanent unit in the basic physical
structure of the future community, a unit to which the future community will of
necessity be forced to adhere. Piecemeal planning of such subdivisions, without
correlation to the city plan, will bring a disconnected patchwork of plats and
poor circulation of traffic. In order that new subdivisions will contribute
toward an attractive, orderly, stable and wholesome community environment; to
ensure that the city has the ability to provide an adequate level of municipal
services; and to promote the efficient movement of traffic, all subdivisions
hereafter platted within the jurisdiction of the city shall in all respects
fully comply with the regulations hereinafter set forth in these regulations.
   (B)   Pursuant to the authority contained in Minn. Stat. § 462.358, as it
may be amended from time to time, this chapter is adopted for the following
purposes:
      (1)   To protect and promote the public health, safety and general
welfare;
      (2)   To provide for the orderly, economic and safe development of land;
      (3)   To preserve agricultural lands;
      (4)   To promote the availability of housing affordable to persons and
families of all income levels; and
      (5)   To facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage,
storm drainage, schools, parks, playgrounds and other public services and
facilities.
(1992 Code, § 315:00) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.003 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the Municipal
Planning Act, Minn. Stat. § 462.358, as it may be amended from time to time.
(1992 Code, § 315:00) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.004 JURISDICTION.
   The rules and regulations governing plats and subdivisions of land contained
herein shall apply within the city. The city may by resolution extend the
application of its subdivision regulations to unincorporated territory located
within two miles of its limits in any direction but not in a town which has
adopted subdivision regulations; provided that, where two or more non-
contiguous municipalities have boundaries less that four miles apart, each is
authorized to control the subdivision of land equal distance from its
boundaries within this area.
(1992 Code, § 315:00) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.005 SEPARABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city that the several
provisions of this chapter are separable in accordance with the following.
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this chapter to be invalid, such judgement shall not affect any other
provisions of this chapter not specifically included in said judgment.
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property building
or other structure, such judgement shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other property, building or structure not specifically
included in said judgment.
(1992 Code, § 315:00) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.006 CONFLICT.
   It is not intended by this chapter to annul or interfere with any other
official regulations or ordinances of the city; provided, however, that, when
there is a difference between minimum standards or dimensions herein and those
contained in other official regulations or ordinances of the city, the highest
standards shall apply.
(1992 Code, § 315:00) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.007 EFFECT OF SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   For one year following preliminary approval and for two years following
final approval, unless the subdivider and the city agree otherwise, no
amendment to a Comprehensive Plan or official control shall apply to or affect
the use, development density, lot size, lot layout or dedication or platting
required or permitted by the approved application. Thereafter, pursuant to the
city regulations, the city may extend the period by agreement with the
subdivider subject to all applicable performance conditions and requirements,
or the city may require submission of a new application unless substantial
physical investment has occurred in reasonable reliance on the approved
application and the subdivider will suffer substantial financial damage as a
consequence of a requirement to submit a new application. In connection with a
subdivision involving planned and staged development, the city may, by
resolution or agreement, grant the rights referred to herein for such periods
of time longer than two years where it determines to be reasonable and
appropriate.
(1992 Code, § 315:00) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.008 DEFINITIONS.
   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense
include the future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and
words in the singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is
always mandatory and not merely directory. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line and
the lot line.
   BUTT LOT. A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner lots.
   COMPREHENSIVE MUNICIPAL PLAN. A compilation of policy statements, goals,
standards and maps for guiding the physical, social and economic development,
both private and public, of the city and its environs, including air space and
subsurface areas necessary for mined underground space development, and may
include, but is not limited to, the following: statements of policies, goals,
standards, a land use plan, a community facilities plan, a transportation plan
and recommendations for plan execution. A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN represents the
city’s recommendations for the future development of the community.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Owatonna, Minnesota.
   EASEMENT. A grant by an owner of land for the specific use of said land by
the public generally or to a person or persons.
   FINAL PLAT. The drawing or map of a subdivision prepared for filing of
record pursuant to Minn. Stat. Ch. 505, as it may be amended from time to time,
and containing all elements and requirements set forth in applicable local
regulations adopted pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 462.358 and Ch. 505, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   LOT. A parcel or portion of land in a subdivision or plat of land, separated
from other parcels or portions by description as on a subdivision of record or
survey map or by metes and bounds, for the purpose of sale or lease or separate
use thereof.
   MINIMUM SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS. The guides, principles and
specifications for the preparation of subdivision plans indicating among other
things, the minimum and maximum dimensions of the various elements set forth in
the preliminary plan.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under this chapter.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. The right-of-way across or within a block, for use by
pedestrian traffic whether designated as a pedestrian way, crosswalk or however
otherwise designated.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate or partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land developed as a unit rather than as
individual development wherein buildings may be located in relationship to each
other rather than to lot lines or zoning district boundaries. The PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT must be developed in compliance with Ord. 827.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Owatonna.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary map, drawing or chart indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the Planning Commission
and City Council for their considerations.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts entered into between private parties and
constitute restriction on the use of all private property within a subdivision
of the benefit of the property owners, and to provide mutual protection against
undesirable aspects of development which would tend to impair stability of
values.
   SETBACK LINE, BUILDING. A line within a lot which establishes the minimum
distance between the property line and nearest portion of an enclosed
structure.
   STREETS and ALLEYS.
      (1)   ALLEY. A minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service
access to the back or the side of properties abutting on a street.
      (2)   ARTERIAL. A street intended to conduct through traffic from one
part of the city to another, connecting traffic generators and/or providing
continuity with state and county highway systems.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries traffic from local streets
to arterial streets. It includes the principal entrance streets of a
residential development and streets for circulation within such development.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street with only one outlet and having a turn-
around.
      (5)   HALF STREET. A public right-of-way having only half the required
width as specified in §
155.046 of this chapter.
      (6)   LOCAL STREET. A street of limited continuity used primarily for
access to the abutting properties and the local needs of a neighborhood.
      (7)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street which is parallel and
adjacent to a thoroughfare and which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
      (8)   PAVEMENT WIDTH. The shortest distance across the road surface as
measured from curb face to curb face.
      (9)   PRIVATE STREET. A way for vehicular traffic which is not owned and
maintained by the municipality.
      (10)   STREET. A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a
street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, lane, place
or however otherwise designated.
      (11)   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. The shortest distance between the lines
delineating the right-of-way of a street.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person commencing proceedings under this chapter to effect a
subdivision of land hereunder for himself or herself or for another.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The separation of an area, parcel or tract of land under single
ownership into two or more parcels, tracts, lots or long term leasehold
interests where the creation of the leasehold interest necessitates the
creation of streets, roads or alleys, for residential, commercial, industrial
or other use or any combination thereof, except those separations:
         (a)   Where all the resulting parcels, tracts, lots or interests will
be 20 acres or larger in size and 500 feet in width for residential uses and
five acres or larger in size for commercial and industrial uses;
         (b)   Creating cemetery lots; and
         (c)   Resulting from court orders, or the adjustment of a lot line by
the relocation of a common boundary.
      (2)   The term includes RESUBDIVISION and, when appropriate to the
context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
(1992 Code, § 315:04) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.009 RECORDING AND CONVEYING.
   (A)   Unless approved as a final plat as provided herein or as provided for
in division (A)(1) below, no subdivision shall be entitled to record in the
County Recorder’s office or have any validity; and the Building Inspector shall
not issue building permits for any structure on a lot in any proposed
subdivision. The Council shall not permit any public improvements to be
installed unless the preliminary plat is approved, and shall not permit any
services until approval of the final plat. Deeds of lots shall not be recorded
until the plat is recorded.
      (1)   The division of an existing platted lot that creates only buildable
lots meeting the minimum area requirements of Ord. 827 may be permitted without
replatting subject to the following:
         (a)   Three copies of a certificate of survey, showing and including
all parcels created by the division of the existing platted parcel, are
submitted to the Planning Commission for public hearing as provided in Ord.
827, along with a fee in the amount of $100;
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall hold public hearing on the
application and forward its recommendation to the City Council for official
action;
         (c)   The maximum number of parcels to be created from one platted lot
does not exceed two; and the maximum number of parcels to be created from two
platted lots does not exceed three (division of more than two platted lots
without replatting will not be allowed);
         (d)   The dedication of utility easements or street easements is not
involved;
         (e)   All parcels created by this process meets all applicable lot
standards of the subdivision regulations and Ord. 827; and
         (f)   Outstanding special assessments are paid in full.
      (2)   The division of a platted or an unplatted parcel where a parcel is
created that is less than a buildable lot as required by Ord. 827 may be
allowed without platting subject to the following.
         (a)   The undersized parcel is to be conveyed to the owner of an
abutting lot to satisfy minimum space, setback and lot use requirements for the
parcel owned by grantee.
         (b)   Three copies of a certificate of survey are submitted to the
City Planner for review along with an application fee of $25.
         (c)   The dedication of utility or street easements is not involved.
         (d)   The remainder parcel meets all Zoning Ordinance requirements for
setbacks and lot use.
         (e)   Outstanding special assessments are paid in full.
   (B)   Any owner or agent of the owner of land who conveys a lot or parcel in
violation of this chapter, subject to modification under §§
155.105 through
155.107 of this chapter shall forfeit and pay to the city a penalty of not less
than $100 for each lot or parcel so conveyed. The city may enjoin such
conveyance by action for injunction or may recover such penalty by a civil
action in any court of competent jurisdiction. The city shall not issue any
building permits to property conveyed in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   In the case of a subdivision of small size and minor importance,
situated in a locality where conditions are well defined the procedure for
preliminary plat and final plat may be combined.
   (D)   No conveyance of land to which the regulations are applicable shall be
filed or recorded, if the land is described in the conveyance by metes and
bounds or by reference to an unapproved registered land survey made after 4-21-
1961 or to an unapproved plat made after such regulations become effective. The
foregoing provision does not apply to a conveyance if the land described:
      (1)   Was a separate parcel of record 4-1-1945 or the date of adoption of
subdivision regulations under Minnesota Laws 1945, Ch. 287, whichever is the
later, or of the adoption of subdivision regulations pursuant to the home rule
charter;
      (2)   Was the subject of a written agreement to convey entered into prior
to such time;
      (3)   Was a separate parcel of not less than two and one-half acres in
area and 150 feet in width on 1-1-1966;
      (4)   Was a separate parcel of not less than five acres in area and 300
feet in width on 7-1-1980;
      (5)   Is a single parcel of commercial or industrial land of not less
than five acres and having a width of not less than 300 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots or parcels,
any one of which is less than five acres in area or 300 feet in width; or
      (6)   Is a single parcel of residential or agricultural land of not less
than 20 acres and having a width of not less than 500 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots or parcels,
any one of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in width.
   (E)   In any case in which compliance with the foregoing restrictions will
create an unnecessary hardship and failure to comply does not interfere with
the purpose of the subdivision regulations, the City Council may waive such
compliance by adoption of a resolution to that effect and the conveyance may
then be filed or recorded.
(1992 Code, § 315:06) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.010 VALIDITY.
   If any section, division, sentence clause or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 315:26) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
PLAT SUBMISSION; GENERAL PROCEDURES
§ 155.025 PRELIMINARY SKETCH REVIEW.
   (A)   Preliminary consultation with city staff shall be required regarding
development and platting proposal to include the following items:
      (1)   Availability of services;
      (2)   Topographic features including wetlands and floodplain areas;
      (3)   Street pattern and standards;
      (4)   Proposed timing of development;
      (5)   Utility and storm water easements in conjunction with the city’s
public utilities;
      (6)   Lot configuration and size;
      (7)   Proposed financing of improvements; and
      (8)   Disposition of any existing assessments.
   (B)   Following such informal review and consultation, the subdivider may
submit the preliminary plat utilizing the considerations determined in the
sketch plan review.
(1992 Code, § 315:08) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.026 PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Unless provided for elsewhere in this chapter or a variance is
authorized, an owner or subdivider shall, before dividing any tract of land
into two or more lots or parcels, file with the City Planner:
      (1)   Six copies of the preliminary plat; and
      (2)   To defray administrative costs of processing each subdivision plat,
a minimum fee shall be paid in the amount duly established in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances. Said fees shall be payable at the time of
filing a preliminary plat.
   (B)   (1)   Any proposed preliminary plat which includes lands abutting upon
any existing or established trunk highway or proposed highway which has been
designated by a centerline order filed in the office of the County Recorder
shall first be presented to the Commissioner of Transportation for his or her
written comments and recommendations. Where any preliminary plat includes land
abutting upon an existing or established county or county state aid highway, it
shall first be submitted to the County Engineer for his or her written comments
and recommendations. Preliminary plats involving both a trunk highway and a
highway under county jurisdiction shall be submitted to the Commissioner of
Transportation and the County Highway Engineer. Plats shall be submitted for
review at least 30 days prior to the city taking final action on the
preliminary plat. The Commissioner of Transportation and/or the County Highway
Engineer shall submit the written comments and recommendations to the city,
town or county within 30 days after receipt by them of such a plat. Final
action on such plat by the city, town or county shall not be taken until after
these required comments and recommendations have been received or until the 30-
day period has elapsed. A legible preliminary drawing or print of a proposed
preliminary plat shall be acceptable for purposes of review by the County
Highway Engineer. To such drawing or print there shall be attached a written
statement describing:
         (a)   The outlet for and means of disposal of surface waters from the
proposed platted area;
         (b)   The land use designation or zoning category of the proposed
platted area;
         (c)   The locations of ingress and egress to the proposed platted
area; and
         (d)   A preliminary site plan for the proposed platted area, if one
has been prepared.
      (2)   A certificate or other evidence provided by the city shall be
required to be upon the plat for filing in the office of the County Recorder or
Registrar of Titles as to the submission of or the obtaining of such written
comments and recommendations.
   (C)   The preliminary plat shall be considered to be officially filed when
the City Planner has received and examined such plat and has certified that all
required materials have been submitted to his or her satisfaction.
   (D)   On the same date that the City Planner places the preliminary plat on
file, he or she shall:
      (1)   Set a date for a public hearing on the preliminary plat. The
Planning Commission shall cause notice of said hearing to be published once in
the official city newspaper and sent by mail to all property owners of record
within 100 feet of the proposed subdivision boundaries at least ten days prior
to the hearing; and
      (2)   Refer one copy of the preliminary plat to the city’s public
utilities for examination and report and one copy to the City Engineer for
examination and report. Copies of the report of the City Engineer and the
city’s public utilities shall be given to the Planning Commission prior to the
public hearing.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the request and
submit its recommendations to the City Council within 60 days of the date the
plat was filed with the City Planner, except in cases where the applicant
requests additional time to adjust or correct the plat.
   (F)   The Council shall act on the preliminary plat within 60 days of the
date on which it was received from the Planning Commission unless an extension
of the review time is agreed to by the applicant.
   (G)   If the preliminary plat is not approved by the Council, the reasons
for such action shall be recorded in the proceedings of the Council and
transmitted to the applicant. If the preliminary plat is approved, such
approval shall not constitute final acceptance of the subdivision.
(1992 Code, § 315:08) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.027 FINAL PLAT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The owner or subdivider shall file six copies of the final plat with
the City Planner no later than 12 months after the date of approval of the
preliminary plat by the Council, otherwise, the preliminary plat and final plat
will be considered void unless an extension is requested in writing by the
subdivider and for good cause granted by the Council. The owner or subdivider
shall also submit at this time an up-to-date certified abstract of title or
Torrens certificate of title and such other evidence as the City Attorney may
require showing title or control in the application.
   (B)   The final plat will have incorporated all changes or modifications
approved in the preliminary plat; in all other respects it shall conform to the
preliminary plat. It may constitute only that portion of the approved
preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop at the
time; provided that, such portion conforms with all the requirements of this
chapter.
   (C)   If the subdivider intends to petition the city for construction of
improvements as provided for in §
155.086 of this chapter, the subdivider may be required to enter into agreement
with the city, as provided for in the above mentioned section, before City
Council approval of the final plat will be given.
   (D)   The final plat shall be considered officially filed after the City
Planner has examined it and certified that all requirements have been met. He
or she shall set a time at which the Planning Commission shall review the final
plat.
   (E)   On the same date that the City Planner places the final plat on file,
he or she shall refer two copies of the final plat to the City Engineer, the
city’s public utilities, telephone company and the office of the County
Surveyor. A copy of the final plat along with the abstract of title or Torrens
certificate of title shall be referred to the City Attorney for his or her
examination and report. The Attorney’s report shall be given to the City
Council within 15 days of receipt by the City Attorney.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall review the final plat and submit its
recommendation to the City Council. No public hearing is required for the
review of a final plat. The City Council shall certify approval of the plat
within 60 days of the time of the filing of the final plat with the City
Planner if the plat complies with all applicable regulations and conditions of
approval. Final approval may be conditional and may be granted or denied for
parts of the subdivision application.
   (G)   If the final plat is approved by the Council, the subdivider shall
record it with the County Recorder within 60 days after the date of approval;
otherwise, the approval of the final plat shall be considered void, unless due
to extenuating circumstances, the City Council grants an extension.
   (H)   The subdivider shall, immediately upon recording, furnish the City
Clerk-Treasurer with a reproducible copy of the final plat showing evidence of
the recording.
   (I)   The subdivider shall furnish the following specified types of copies
of the final plat to the persons listed below:
      (1)   County Recorder: as required by Minn. Stat. § 505.08, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (2)   County Auditor: as required by Minn. Stat. § 505.08, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (3)   County Assessor: one copy on paper;
      (4)   County Surveyor: one copy on paper;
      (5)   City Engineer: one reproducible copy;
      (6)   General Manager of the city’s public utilities: two copies on
paper; and
      (7)   Northwestern Bell: one copy (as required).
(1992 Code, § 315:08) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.028 PRELIMINARY PLAT; NECESSARY DATA.
   (A)   Required information, preliminary plat. The preliminary plat of the
proposed subdivision shall contain or have attached thereto the information
required in §
155.026 of this chapter which follows.
   (B)   Necessary maps for preliminary plat. The preliminary plat shall be
clearly and legibly drawn. The map shall not be less than 12 inches by 18
inches. All subdivision maps shall be drawn at a scale not smaller than a scale
of one inch equals 100 feet, unless otherwise specified by the City Planner.
   (C)   Identification and description, required.
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision, which name shall not duplicate or be
alike in pronunciation of the name of any plat theretofore recorded in the
county;
      (2)   Legal description of property to be platted and a survey prepared
by a surveyor registered in the state;
      (3)   Names; and addresses of the property owners, subdivider, surveyor
and designer of the plan;
      (4)   North point; and
      (5)   Date of preparation.
   (D)   Existing conditions, required.
      (1)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision, clearly indicated;
      (2)   Existing zoning classification;
      (3)   Total approximate acreage;
      (4)   Location, widths and names of all existing or previously platted
streets or other public ways, showing type, width and condition of
improvements, if any, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks and other
public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, public and private
easements, existing and proposed, and section and corporate lines within the
tract and to a distance of 100 feet beyond the tract;
      (5)   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts and
other underground facilities within the tract and to a distance of 100 feet
beyond the tract. Such data as grades, invert elevations and locations of catch
basins, manholes and hydrants shall be shown only on request;
      (6)   Boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land, within
100 feet, identifying by name and ownership;
      (7)   Topographic data may be required out to 300 feet beyond the
boundaries of the proposed plat including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than two feet. Where the horizontal contour interval is 100 feet or more,
a one foot vertical interval shall be shown. Watercourses, wetlands, wooded
areas, rock outcrops, power transmission poles and lines and other significant
features shall also be shown; and
      (8)   Location of floodway and floodfringe when applicable.
   (E)   Subdivision design features, required.
      (1)   Layout of proposed streets, showing right-of-way widths and
proposed names of streets. The name of any street heretofore used in the city
or its environs shall not be used, unless the proposed street is an extension
of an already names street, in which event the name shall be used;
      (2)   Locations and widths of proposed alleys, pedestrian ways and
utility easements;
      (3)   Layout, numbers and preliminary dimensions of lots and blocks;
      (4)   Areas, other than streets, alleys, pedestrian ways and utility
easements intended to be dedicated or preserved for public use as provided by
Minn. Stat. § 462.358, Subd. 2(b), as it may be amended from time to time,
including the size of such area or areas in acres;
      (5)   Storm water management plan as per §§
52.25 through 52.35 of this code of ordinances; and
      (6)   Any other design features that may be required, by the City
Planner, such as future street and lot layouts of adjoining properties,
proposed drainage and utility service.
(1992 Code, § 315:10) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993; Ord. 1431, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 155.029 PRELIMINARY PLAT; QUALIFICATIONS GOVERNING APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may return a conditional report to the
Council. The Council may require such changes or revisions as it deems
necessary for the health, safety, general welfare and convenience of the city.
   (B)   The approval of a preliminary plat by the Planning Commission and
Council is tentative only, involving merely the general acceptability of the
layout as submitted.
   (C)   Subsequent approval by the City Engineer and the city’s public
utilities of utility and storm sewer easements and of the engineering proposals
required by this chapter pertaining to water supply, storm drainage, grading,
erosion control, sewage disposal, sidewalks, gas and electric service, street
gradients and roadway widths and surfacing of streets shall be necessary prior
to the approval of the final plat by the city.
   (D)   No plat will be approved for a subdivision which covers an area
subject to periodic flooding or which contains extremely poor drainage
facilities which would make adequate drainage of the streets and lots
impossible, unless the subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in
the opinion of the City Engineer, make the area completely safe for occupancy
and provide adequate street and lot drainage.
   (E)   All plats containing lots that cannot be served by city sanitary sewer
and where the intention is to utilize on-site sanitary sewer systems shall
require approval by the County Sanitarian, and may be subject to possible use
restrictions regulated through covenants and deed restrictions.
(1992 Code, § 315:12) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993; Ord. 1431, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 155.030 FINAL PLAT; NECESSARY DATA.
   (A)   The final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor who is registered
in the state and shall conform to all state and county requirements and the
requirements of §§
155.028(C), (D)(1), (E)(1), (E)(2) and (E)(3) and
155.031 of this chapter.
   (B)   The final plat must be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Any covenants or deed restrictions as required by the city;
      (2)   Approval from the city’s public utilities indicating the utilities’
ability to service the plat and the adequacy of utility easements provided; and
      (3)   A written report from the City Attorney confirming accuracy of
title abstract or certificate of torrens.
(1992 Code, § 315:14) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.031 INFORMATION TO BE SHOWN ON FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles and
curvatures used to describe boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, areas
reserved for public use and other important features. Dimensions of lot lines
shall be shown in feet and hundredths of a foot;
   (B)   An identification system for all lots and blocks;
   (C)   Angles or bearings and distances to the nearest established official
monuments (not less than three) which shall be accurately described in the
plat;
   (D)   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to the
lines of the subdivision by distances and angles;
   (E)   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and
lengths of all arcs;
   (F)   Accurate location of all monuments;
   (G)   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be dedicated
or reserved for public use, or for the exclusive use of property owners within
the subdivision with the purposes indicated therein;
   (H)   Certification by a registered surveyor in the form required by Minn.
Stat. § 505.03, as it may be amended from time to time;
   (I)   Execution by all owners of any interest in the land and any holders of
a mortgage thereon of the certificate required by Minn. Stat. § 505.03, as it
may be amended from time to time, and which certificate shall include a
dedication of the utility easements and any other public areas in such form as
shall be approved by the City Attorney;
   (J)   Certifications showing that all taxes currently due on the property to
be subdivided have been paid in full;
   (K)   Form of approval of City Council as follows:
 
I hereby certify that the adjoining plat of ________________ Addition, City of
Owatonna, Minnesota, was duly approved by the City Council of the City of
Owatonna on this ____ day of ______________, 20____.
 
______________________________
City Clerk-Treasurer
City of Owatonna, Minnesota
 
 
   (L)   Form for approval by county authorities as required by law:
 
Checked and approved this ____ day of _________________, 20____.
 
______________________________
County Surveyor,
Steele County, Minnesota
 
I hereby certify that all the taxes payable in the ______ on the land described
herein are paid.
______________________________
County Auditor,
Steele County, Minnesota
 
 
Filed in the office of the Registrar of Deeds this ____ day of _________
20____, at ____ o’clock ____. M. in Book ______ of Plats, Page ____, as
instrument number _____________.
 
______________________________
County Recorder,
Steele County, Minnesota
 
 
(1992 Code, § 315:16) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.045 CONFORMITY WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The proposed subdivision shall take into consideration the Comprehensive
Plan.
(1992 Code, § 315:18) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.046 STREET PLAN.
   (A)   General. The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location
of all streets shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan and to these
regulations, and shall be considered in their relation to the existing and
planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographical
conditions, to run-off of storm water, to public convenience and safety and in
their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by
such streets.
   (B)   Continuation of existing streets. The arrangement of streets in new
subdivisions shall make provisions for the appropriate continuation of the
existing streets in adjoining areas.
   (C)   Future projection of streets. Where adjoining areas are not
subdivided, but may be subdivided, the arrangement of streets in a new
subdivision shall make provisions for the proper projection of streets into
adjoining areas by carrying the new streets to the boundaries of the new
subdivision at appropriate locations.
(1992 Code, § 315:18) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.047 STREETS; MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   Street widths. All right-of-way and pavement widths (face to face of
curb) shall conform to the following minimum dimensions:
 
Classification                Street Right-of-Way Width
                              As determined by City Council or state
Arterials                     requirements where applicable, but in no case
                              shall the minimum right-of-way be less than 66
                              ft.
Collector streets             66 ft.              40 ft.
Local streets and cul-de-sacs 60 ft.              36 ft.
Marginal access street        50 ft.              Variable
Minor arterials               66 ft. minimum      42 ft.
 
   (B)   Street deflections. When connecting street lines deflect from each
other at any one point by more than ten degrees, they shall be connected by a
curve with a radius of not less than 100 feet.
   (C)   Street grades. All centerline gradients shall be at least 0.5% and
shall not exceed the following without approval of the City Engineer:
 
Classification                            Maximum Gradient (Percent)*
Arterials and collector streets           4
Local streets and marginal access streets 6
NOTE TO TABLE:
* To assure a safe and reasonable sight distance at intersections, a lesser
maximum grade may be required.
 
   (D)   Street jogs. Street jogs shall have a centerline off-set of 150 feet
or more when applied to minor streets, cul-de-sacs or marginal access streets.
In all other cases they shall be avoided.
   (E)   Cul-de-sacs. Maximum length of cul-de-sac streets shall be 500 feet
measured along the centerline from the intersection of origin to end of right-
of-way, and minimum diameter of turn around shall be 120 feet. Lot lines
abutting cul-de-sac turn-arounds shall be radial except in extreme cases where
special permission may be granted otherwise.
   (F)   Marginal access streets. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an
existing or planned major arterial or a railroad right-of-way, the Council may
require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-
way for adequate protection or residential properties and to afford separation
of through and local traffic. Such marginal access streets shall be located at
a distance from the major thoroughfare or railroad right-of-way suitable for
the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes in
residential districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due regard
for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
   (G)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations; and except where the Council finds it will
be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. Wherever there is a half street adjacent to a tract to
be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
   (H)   Street surfaces. All streets shall be surfaced as required by the City
Engineering Department before acceptance into the system of street maintenance.
Unless permitted by the City Engineer, no street shall have bituminous surface
unless curb and gutter is constructed.
   (I)   Reserve strips, street access. Reserve strips controlling access to
streets shall be prohibited unless approved by the City Engineer.
   (J)   Private streets. Private streets shall not be approved nor shall
public improvements be approved for any private streets, unless approved as
part of a planned unit development.
   (K)   Hardship to owners of adjoining property avoided on streets. The
street arrangements shall not be such as to cause hardship to owners of
adjoining property in platting their own land and providing convenient access
to it.
   (L)   Alleys, minimum standards.
      (1)   Locational requirements, alleys. The city may require that either a
public or private alley shall be provided in a block where commercially zoned
property abuts an arterial street. Alleys in residential areas other than those
zoned for multiple-family use shall not be permitted.
      (2)   Alley widths. All alley rights-of-way and pavement widths shall
conform to the following minimum standards.
 
Classification           Right-of-Way Pavement
Industrial or commercial 24 ft.       20 ft.
Residential (two-way)    20 ft.       16 ft.
 
      (3)   Alley grades. All centerline gradients shall be at least 0.5% and
shall not exceed 8% unless approved by the City Engineer.
      (4)   Alley surface. All alleys shall be surfaced as required by the City
Engineer before acceptance into the system of street maintenance.
   (M)   Intersections, requirements.
      (1)   Angle of intersections. Street intersections shall be as nearly at
right angles as possible and shall not be less than 75 degrees unless approved
with good reason by the City Engineer.
      (2)   Size of intersection. Intersections of more than four corners shall
be prohibited.
   (N)   Corner radii. Roadways of street intersections at the curb shall be
rounded by a radius of not less than 20 feet. Roadways of alley-street
intersections shall be rounded by a radius of not less than ten feet. Corners
at the entrance to the turn-around portions of cul-de-sacs shall be rounded by
a radius of not less than 15 feet.
(1992 Code, § 315:18) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.048 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   Concrete curb and gutter may be included as a part of the required street
surface improvement and shall thus be designed for installation along both
sides of all roadways in accordance with the standards of the city. The city
shall set all grades and supervise construction.
(1992 Code, § 315:18) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.049 PEDESTRIAN WAYS.
   In blocks over 900 feet long, pedestrian crosswalks through blocks, and at
least ten feet wide, may be required by the City Council in locations deemed
necessary to public safety, convenience and necessity.
(1992 Code, § 315:18) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.050 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Provided for utilities. Easements shall be provided as required by the
city’s public utilities and the City Engineer.
   (B)   Provided for drainage. Easements shall be provided along each side of
the centerline of any watercourse or drainage channel to a width sufficient to
provide proper maintenance and protection and to provide for storm water runoff
and installation and maintenance of storm sewers, and they shall be dedicated
to the city by appropriate language in the owner’s certificate. Additional
easements may also be required for other drainage ways and storm water storage
areas identified as part of the approved storm water management plan for the
development.
(1992 Code, § 315:18) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993; Ord. 1431, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 155.051 STREET NAMES.
   Names of new streets shall not duplicate existing or platted street names
unless a new street is a continuation of or in alignment with the existing or
platted street, in which event it shall bear the same name of the existing or
platted street so in alignment. Street names shall conform with the street
numerical plan when applicable. Approval of street names shall be at the
discretion of the City Council.
(1992 Code, § 315:18) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.052 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Factors governing dimensions. Block length and width or acreage within
bounding streets shall be such as to accommodate the size of residential lot
required in the area by the Zoning Ordinance and to provide for convenient
access, circulation control and safety of street traffic.
   (B)   Compliance. All subdivision plats submitted shall comply with the
requirements of Ord. 827.
   (C)   Length. Block lengths shall not exceed 1,300 feet.
   (D)   Arrangements. A block shall be so designed as to provide two tiers of
lots, unless it adjoins a railroad or major thoroughfare where it may have a
single tier of lots.
(1992 Code, § 315:18) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.053 LOTS.
   (A)   Location. All lots shall abut by their full frontage on a publicly
dedicated street or a street that has received legal status as such; except
that, lots may front on private drives that are approved as part of a planned
unit development.
   (B)   Size. The lot dimensions in subdivision shall not be less than the
minimum dimensions required to secure the minimum lot area specified in Ord.
827.
   (C)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall be platted at least ten feet wider than
the minimum requirements specified in Ord. 827.
   (D)   Butt lots. Butt lots shall be platted at least five feet wider than
the average width of interior lots in the block.
   (E)   Side lot lines. Side lines of lots shall be substantially at right
angles to the street line.
   (F)   Watercourses. Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainage way, channel
or stream shall have an additional depth or width, as required, to assure house
sites that are not subject to flooding.
   (G)   Natural features. In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be
shown for all natural features such as tree growth, wetlands, watercourses,
historic spots or similar conditions which, if preserved, will add
attractiveness and stability to the proposed development.
   (H)   Lot remnants.
      (1)   All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after the
subdividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots, or if included on
the plat as outlots, a plan shown indicating future use or disposition must be
submitted and approved by the city.
      (2)   The city may condition approval of any such outlots upon the
creation of covenants, deed restrictions or other mechanism which will ensure
that these parcels are used or conveyed as intended.
      (3)   Lot remnants shall not be allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
   (I)   Lots along arterials. Except in those cases where there are
extenuating circumstances, residential lots shall not directly front on
arterials. Such lots permitted to front on arterials may be subject to certain
restrictions including, but not limited to, increased front yard building
setbacks and turn around areas.
   (J)   Minimized access. Individual lot access should be minimized and
provided on intersecting local streets where possible. The number of lots
fronting a collector street should be kept to a minimum.
   (K)   Residential lot depth. Residential lots contiguous to railroad right-
of-ways shall be a minimum of 135 feet in depth.
(1992 Code, § 315:18) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.054 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   Where a proposed park, playground, school site or other public site a shown
on the Comprehensive Plan is embraced in part or in whole by the boundary of a
proposed subdivision and such public sites are not dedicated to the city or
school district, such site shall be reserved and no action taken towards
approval of preliminary or final plat for a period not to exceed 90 days to
allow the City Council or school district the opportunity to consider and take
action towards acquisition of such site by purchase or other means.
(1992 Code, § 315:18) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
REQUIRED ON-SITE IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.065 GENERALLY.
   Prior to the approval of a final plat by the Council, the subdivider shall
have agreed, in the manner set forth in §§
155.085 through
155.090 of this chapter, to install or pay for the installation of on-site
improvements as set forth in this section. Such improvements shall be made in
conformity with the construction plans approved by the City Engineer and be in
conformity with all applicable standards and ordinances of the city.
(1992 Code, § 315:20) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.066 MONUMENTS.
   Monuments of a permanent character shall be placed at the corners of all
lots created by the subdivision and located as required by Minn. Stat. §
505.021, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time. Building permits will
not be issued until such monuments are placed.
(1992 Code, § 315:20) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.067 STREET AND ALLEY IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Grading and graveling. As required by the City Engineer.
   (B)   Pavement. As required by the City Engineer.
(1992 Code, § 315:20) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.068 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   As required by the City Engineer.
(1992 Code, § 315:20) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.069 SIDEWALKS AND PEDESTRIAN WAYS.
   As required by the City Engineer.
(1992 Code, § 315:20) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.070 STREET SIGNS.
   Street signs shall be installed in all new subdivisions by the city.
(1992 Code, § 315:20) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.071 UNDERGROUND CABLE TELEVISION AND TELEPHONE SERVICE.
   As required by respective companies and applicable city ordinance.
(1992 Code, § 315:20) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.072 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Sanitary sewer shall be constructed where available in all new
subdivisions as required by the City Engineer.
   (B)   All plats that cannot be serviced by sanitary sewer shall be subject
to the current requirements of the County Sanitary Ordinance. Minimum lot size
shall be 44,000 square feet. A larger size lot may be required due to
circumstances specific to the site. This lot size shall be exclusive of all
public rights-of-way. Such plats shall be reviewed by the county planning and
zoning staff to ensure compliance with the applicable County Sanitary
Ordinance.
   (C)   The owners of property served by private sewage disposal facilities
shall operate and maintain the sewage facilities in a sanitary manner at all
time, at no expense to the city.
   (D)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer within six months, unless other arrangements have been made with
the city or an agreement with the city exists that provides for an alternate
hookup schedule. Septic tanks and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall at that time be abandoned in compliance with the County Sanitary
Ordinance.
(1992 Code, § 315:20) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.073 STORM SEWER AND SUMP PUMP LINE DRAINAGE.
   As required as part of the approved storm water management plan for the
development.
(1992 Code, § 315:20) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993; Ord. 1431, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 155.074 WATER, GAS AND ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   Plans for water, gas and electric power facilities shall be discussed with
the city’s public utilities. The city’s public utilities shall indicate its
approval of the plat before the City Council will issue a final plat approval.
Financing arrangements, sizing and location will be determined by the city’s
public utilities.
(1992 Code, § 315:20) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
FINANCING AND CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.085 PAYMENT OF INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The costs of the required improvements, which are listed and described in §§
155.065 through
155.074 of this chapter, are to be furnished and installed at the sole expense
of the subdivider and at no expense to the city unless otherwise stated. In the
case of an improvement, the cost of which would by general policy of the
Council, be assessed only in part to the improved property and the remaining
cost paid out of general tax, the Council may make provision for payment of a
portion of the cost by the subdivider and the remaining portion of the cost by
the city; and, provided further that, if any improvement installed within the
subdivision will be of substantial benefit to lands beyond the boundaries of
the subdivision, the Council may make provision for causing a portion of the
cost of the improvement, representing the benefit to such lands, to be assessed
against the same and in such case the subdivider will be required only to pay
for such portion of the whole cost of said improvement as will represent the
benefit to the property within the subdivision.
(1992 Code, § 315:22) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.086 CITY CONSTRUCTION.
   In lieu of the subdivider installing improvements required under §§
155.065 through
155.074 of this chapter, the subdivider may enter into agreement with the city
to do such construction work. Such agreement shall include a request that the
benefitted properties be assessed for the cost of such improvements as provided
for in state statutes and assessment policies established by the city. Such
assessments shall include fees for engineering and design of the improvements,
inspections and when applicable, financing expenses. Petition for improvements
shall be presented to the city in a fashion and timetable as prescribed by the
City Engineer. The subdivider shall be required to remit to the city payment in
an amount equal to 20% of the total assessments levied against the property
being improved. Such payment shall be made in a fashion and time frame
prescribed by the city and shall be applied to the assessable costs of the
development. This option shall apply to streets, alleys, curb and gutter, water
lines, storm sewer and sump pump lines and sanitary sewer facilities.
(1992 Code, § 315:22) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.087 REQUIRED AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR PROPER INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General. Prior to installation of any required improvements done by
subdivider or his or her contractor, the subdivider or his or her contractor
shall enter into an agreement with the city requiring the subdivider to furnish
and construct said improvements at his or her sole cost and in accordance with
plans and specifications and usual contract conditions all approved by the City
Engineer. This agreement shall include provisions for the engineering and
design of the improvements by the City Engineer, supervision and inspection of
details of construction by the City Engineer, and payment for these services at
a rate to be determined by the City Council from time to time. The agreement
shall grant to the City Engineer authority to correlate the work to be done
under said agreement by any subcontractors authorized to proceed thereunder and
with any other work being done or contracted by the city in the vicinity. The
agreement may require the subdivider to make an escrow deposit or in lieu
thereof, to furnish a performance bond, the amount of the deposit and the penal
amount of the bond to be equal to the City Engineer’s estimate of the total
cost of the improvements to be furnished under the contract, including the cost
of inspection and design work by the city. On request of the subdivider, the
contract may provide for completion of part or all the improvements covered
thereby prior to acceptance of the plat, and in such event the amount of the
deposit or bond shall be reduced in a sum equal to the estimated cost of the
improvements to be furnished after the acceptance of the plat only. The time
for completion of the work and the several parts thereof shall be determined by
the City Engineer after consultation with the subdivider and shall be
reasonable in relation to the work to be done, the seasons of the year, the
proper correlation with construction activities in the subdivision. The
provisions of this section shall be waived or amended as deemed appropriate by
the City Engineer on those improvements which the city has agreed to install
under the provisions of §
155.086 of this chapter.
   (B)   Financial guarantee. The agreement provided by division (A) above may
require the subdivider to make an escrow or in lieu thereof furnish performance
bond as set forth in division (D) below.
   (C)   Escrow deposit (if required). An escrow deposit shall be made with the
City Clerk-Treasurer in a sum equal to the total cost as estimated by the City
Engineer, including cost of inspection and design work by the city, of all of
the improvements to be furnished and installed by the subdivider pursuant to
the contract and which have not been completed prior to approval of the final
plat. The city shall be entitled to reimburse itself out of said deposit for
any cost and expense incurred by the city for completion of the work in case of
default of the subdivider under this contract, and for any damages sustained by
the city on account of any breach thereof. Upon completion of the work and
termination of any liability to the city of the subdivider under this contract,
the balance remaining in said deposit shall be refunded to the subdivider.
   (D)   Performance bond (if required). In lieu of making the escrow deposit
above described, the subdivider may furnish the city with a public contractor’s
performance bond in form prescribed by statute, with corporate surety, in a
penal sum equal to the total cost as estimated by the City Engineer, including
cost of inspection and design work by the city, of all of the improvements to
be furnished and installed by the subdivider pursuant to the contract and which
have not been completed prior to approval of the final plat. The bond shall be
approved by the City Attorney and filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(1992 Code, § 315:22) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.088 ENGINEERING AND DESIGN OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Engineering and design of streets, alleys, curb and gutter, water lines,
storm sewer, sump pump lines and sanitary sewer facilities and the preparation
of construction plans for these improvements shall be the responsibility of the
City Engineer or his or her designee. The subdivider may do the engineering and
designs of such improvements at the subdivider’s expense upon approval of the
City Engineer. If these services are provided by the city, they shall be
provided at the subdivider’s expense at a rate to be determined by the City
Council from time to time with payment to be made as part of the assessed costs
of improvements or as provided for in the agreement, whichever is applicable.
(1992 Code, § 315:22) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993; Ord. 1431, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 155.089 INSPECTION.
   All required improvements on the site that are to be installed under the
provisions of this chapter shall be inspected during the course of construction
by the City Engineer at the subdivider’s expense, and acceptance shall be
subject to the City Engineer’s certificate of compliance with the agreement.
(1992 Code, § 315:22) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.090 IMPROVEMENTS COMPLETED PRIOR TO APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   Improvements within a subdivision which have been completed prior to
application for approval of the final plat or execution of the agreement for
installation of the required improvements shall be accepted as equivalent
improvements in compliance with the requirements of §§
155.065 through
155.074 of this chapter only if the City Engineer shall certify that he or she
is satisfied that the existing improvements conform to applicable city
standards.
(1992 Code, § 315:22) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
MODIFICATIONS, EXCEPTIONS AND VARIANCES
§ 155.105 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   In the case of a subdivision of small size and of minor importance, situated
in a locality where conditions are well-defined, the Planning Commission may
exempt the subdivider from complying with some of the requirements set forth in
§
155.028 of this chapter pertaining to the preparation of the preliminary plat.
(1992 Code, § 315:24) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.106 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   The Planning Commission may exempt the subdivider from complying with some
of the requirements of §§
155.027 and
155.028 of this chapter when the subdivider is developing the property as a
planned unit development under Ord. 827.
(1992 Code, § 315:24) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 155.107 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General. The City Council may grant a variance upon receiving a report
from the Planning Commission in any particular case where the subdivider can
show that by reason of exceptional topography or other existing physical
conditions the strict compliance with these regulations could cause an
exceptional and undue hardship on the enjoyment of a substantial property
right; provided, such relief may be granted without detriment to the public
welfare and without impairing the intent and purpose of the regulation. Unusual
hardship includes, but is not limited to, adequate access to direct sunlight
for solar energy systems.
   (B)   Application required. Application for any such variance shall be made
in writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for
consideration by the Planning Commission, stating fully all facts relied upon
by the petitioner, and shall be supplemented with maps, plans or other
additional data which may aid the Planning Commission and Council in the
analysis of the proposed project. The plans for such development shall include
such covenants, restrictions or other legal provisions necessary to guarantee
the full achievement of the plan.
   (C)   Public hearing. Any variances from the subdivision ordinance shall be
noted in the notice of public hearing for the subdivision.
   (D)   Minutes. Any variance or modification thus granted shall be entered in
the minutes of the Council setting forth the reasons which justified the
action.
(1992 Code, § 315:24) (Ord. 1069, passed 3-2-1993)
CHAPTER 156: AIRPORT ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Purpose and authority
   
156.02   Short title
   
156.03   Definitions
   
156.04   Airport zoning map
   
156.05   Conflicts
   
156.06   Severability
   
156.07   Effective date
Safety Standards and Provisions
   
156.20   Airspace obstruction zoning
   
156.21   Land use safety zoning
   
156.22   Non-conforming uses
   
156.23   Hazard marking and lighting
Administration
   
156.35   Permits
   
156.36   Variances
   
156.37   Airport Zoning Administrator
   
156.38   Board of Adjustment
   
156.39   Appeals
   
156.40   Judicial review
 
   
156.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations; Construction, see
Ch. 150
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 155
   Zoning, see
Ch. 157
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The Owatonna Joint Airport Zoning Board, created and established by joint
action of the Council of the City of Owatonna, the Board of County
Commissioners of Steele County, the Town Board of Clinton Falls Township, the
Town Board of Medford Township and the Town Board of Owatonna Township,
pursuant to the provisions and authority of Minn. Stat. §§ 360.061 through
360.074, as they may be amended from time to time, hereby finds and declares
that:
   (A)   An airport hazard endangers the lives and property of users of the
Owatonna Airport, and property or occupants of land in its vicinity, and also
if of the obstructive type, in effect reduces the size of the area available
for the landing, takeoff and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to destroy
or impair the utility of the Owatonna Airport and the public investment
therein;
   (B)   The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public
nuisance and an injury to the region served by the Owatonna Airport;
   (C)   For the protection of the public health, safety, order, convenience,
prosperity and general welfare, and for the promotion of the most appropriate
use of land, it is necessary to prevent the creation or establishment of
airport hazards;
   (D)   The prevention of these airport hazards should be accomplished, to the
extent legally possible, by the exercise of police power without compensation;
and
   (E)   The prevention of the creation or establishment of airport hazards and
the elimination, removal, alteration, mitigation or marking and lighting of
existing airport hazards are public purposes for which political subdivisions
may raise and expend public funds.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as “Owatonna Airport Zoning Ordinance”. Those
sections of land affected by this chapter are indicated in “Exhibit A” which is
attached to the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The Municipal Airport located at 3400 West Frontage Road, City of
Owatonna, Steele County, Minnesota.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the highest point in the
useable landing area which elevation is established to be 1,145 feet above mean
sea level.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking off at the airport; and any use of land which is hazardous to
persons or property because of its proximity to the airport.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used as a residence or
sleeping place of one or more persons.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for the landing, taking off or
taxiing of aircraft.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any existing structure, tree, natural growth or use of
land existing as of the day of the adoption of this chapter which is
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an amendment hereto.
   NON-PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing or planned,
straight-in instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities
with only horizontal guidance and for which no precision approach facilities
are planned or indicated on an approved planning document.
   PLANNED. Only to those proposed future airport developments that are so
indicated on a planning document having the approval of the Federal Aviation
Administration, MN/DOT, Office of Aeronautics and the city.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or body politic, and includes a trustee, receiver,
assignee, administrator, executor, guardian or other representative.
   PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (ILS) or a precision approach
radar (PAR). Also, a runway for which a precision instrument approach system is
planned and is so indicated on an approved planning document.
   RUNWAY. Any existing or planned paved surface or turf covered area of the
airport which is specifically designated and used or planned to be used for the
landing and/or taking off of aircraft.
   SLOPE. An incline from the horizontal expressed in an arithmetic ratio of
horizontal magnitude to vertical magnitude.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/987462abb0c208a8b1da5030f716f3501f764342/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27.jpg]
 
   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by humans, including, but
without limitations, buildings, towers, smokestacks and overhead transmission
lines.
   TRAVERSE WAYS. For the purpose of determining height limits as set forth in
this chapter shall be increased in height by 17 feet for interstate highways;
15 feet for all other public roadways; ten feet or the height of the highest
mobile object that would normally traverse the road, whichever is greater, for
private roads; 23 feet for railroads; and for waterways and all other traverse
ways not previously mentioned, an amount equal to the height of the highest
mobile object that would normally traverse it.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller-driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less.
   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures, with no straight-in instrument approach procedure
and no instrument designation indicated on an approved planning document.
   WATER SURFACES. The same meaning as land for the establishment of protected
zones.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.04 AIRPORT ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The several zones herein established are shown on the Owatonna Airport
Zoning Map consisting of three sheets, prepared by Toltz, King, Duvall,
Anderson and Associates, Inc., and dated 11-21-1997, attached to the ordinance
codified herein and made a part hereof, which map, together with such
amendments thereto as may from time to time be made, and all notations,
references, elevations, data, zone boundaries and other information thereon,
shall be and the same is hereby adopted as part of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Pages 1 and 2 of said zoning map shows the Airspace Obstruction
Zones defined in §
156.20 of this chapter.
      (2)   Page 3 of said zoning map shows Land Use Safety Zones A, B and C as
defined in §
156.21 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.05 CONFLICTS.
   Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, the use of land or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
regulation shall govern and prevail.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   In any case in which the provision of this chapter, although generally
reasonable, are held by a court to interfere with the use or enjoyment of a
particular structure or parcel of land to such an extent, or to be so onerous
in then-application to such a structure or parcel of land, as to constitute a
taking or deprivation of that property in violation of the Constitution of the
state or the Constitution of the United States, such holding shall not affect
the application of this chapter as to other structures and parcels of land and,
to this end, the provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable.
   (B)   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof other than the parts so
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall, upon adoption, be published in the official newspaper of
the city and shall take effect on the date of said publication. Copies thereof
shall be filed with the State Commissioner of Aeronautics and the County
Recorder.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
SAFETY STANDARDS AND PROVISIONS
§ 156.20 AIRSPACE OBSTRUCTION ZONING.
   (A)   Airspace zones. In order to carry out the purpose of this chapter, as
set forth above, the following airspace zones are hereby established: Primary
Zone, Horizontal Zone, Conical Zone, Approach Zone, Precision Instrument
Approach Zone and Transitional Zone and whose locations and dimensions are as
follows.
      (1)   Primary Zone.
         (a)   All that land which lies directly under an imaginary primary
surface longitudinally centered on a runway extending 200 feet beyond each end
of Runways 04-22 and 12-30. The elevation of any point on the primary surface
is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
         (b)   The width of the primary surface is:
            1.   One thousand feet for Runway 12-30; and
            2.   Five hundred feet for Runway 04-22.
      (2)   Horizontal Zone. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary horizontal surface 150 feet above the established airport elevation,
or a height of 1,295 feet above mean sea level, the perimeter of which is
constructed by swinging arcs of specified radii from the center of each end of
the primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines
tangent to those areas. The radius of each arc is:
         (a)   Ten thousand feet for Runway 12-30; and
         (b)   Ten thousand feet for Runway 04-22.
      (3)   Conical Zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
conical surface extending upward and outward from the periphery of the
horizontal zone at a slope of 20 to one (20:1) for a horizontal distance of
4,000 feet as measured radially outward from the periphery of the horizontal
surface;
      (4)   Approach Zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
approach surface longitudinally centered on the extended centerline at each end
of a runway. The inner edge of the approach surface is at the same width and
elevation as, and coincides with, the end of the primary surface.
         (a)   The approach surface inclines upward and outward at a slope of:
            1.   Forty to one (40:1) for Runway 12 approach;
            2.   Forty to one (40:1) for Runway 04 approach; and
            3.   Forty to one (40:1) for Runway 22 approach.
         (b)   The approach surface expands uniformly to a width of the
following at a distance of 10,000 feet, and then continues to the periphery of
the conical surface:
            1.   Four thousand feet for Runway 12; and
            2.   Three thousand five hundred feet for Runway 04-22.
      (5)   Precision Instrument Approach Zone. All that land which lies
directly under an imaginary precision instrument approach surface
longitudinally centered on the extended centerline at the approach end of
Runway 30, a precision instrument runway. The inner edge of the precision
instrument approach is at the same width and elevation as, and coincides with,
the end of the primary surface. The precision instrument approach surface
inclines upward and outward at a slope of 50 to one (50:1) for a horizontal
distance of 10,000 feet expanding uniformly to a width of 4,000 feet, then
continues upward and outward for an additional horizontal distance of 40,000
feet at a slope of 40 to one (40:1), expanding uniformly to an ultimate width
of 16,000 feet; and
      (6)   Transitional Zone. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary surface extending upward and outward at right angles to the runway
centerline and centerline extended at a slope of seven to one (7:1) from the
sides of the approach surfaces until they intersect with the horizontal surface
or the conical surface. Transitional surfaces for those portions of the
precision instrument approach surface which project through and beyond the
limits of the conical surface, extend a distance of 5,000 feet measured
horizontally from the edge of the precision instrument approach surface and at
right angles to the extended precision instrument runway centerline.
   (B)   Height restrictions. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, and
except as necessary and incidental to airport operations, no structure or tree
shall be constructed, altered, maintained or allowed to grow in any airspace
zone created in division (A) above so as to project above any of the imaginary
airspace surfaces described in said division (A) above. Where an area is
covered by more than one height limitation, the more restrictive limitations
shall prevail. If an existing tree grows and penetrates any of the airspace
zones described above, the city will assist in the removal or trimming of the
tree as necessary.
   (C)   Boundary limitations. The airspace obstruction zoning restrictions set
forth in this section shall apply for a distance not to exceed one and one-half
miles beyond the perimeter of the airport boundary and in that portion of an
airport hazard area under the approach zone for a distance not exceeding two
miles from the airport boundary.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.21 LAND USE SAFETY ZONING.
   (A)   Safety zone boundaries. In order to carry out the purposes of this
chapter, as set forth above, and also in order to restrict those uses which may
be hazardous to the operational safety of aircraft operating to and from the
Owatonna Airport, and furthermore, to limit population and building density in
the runway approach area, thereby creating sufficient open space so as to
protect life and property in case of an accident, there are hereby created and
established the following land use safety zones:
      (1)   Safety Zone A. All land in that portion of the approach zones of a
runway, as defined in §
156.20(A) of this chapter, which extends outward from the end of the primary
surface a distance equal to two-thirds of the planned length of the runway,
which distance shall be:
         (a)   Two thousand feet for Runway 04-22; and
         (b)   Three thousand six hundred and sixty-six feet for Runway 12-30.
      (2)   Safety Zone B. All land in that portion of the approach zones of a
runway, as defined in §
156.20(A) of this chapter, which extends outward from Safety Zone A a distance
equal to one-third of the planned length of the runway, which distance shall
be:
         (a)   One thousand feet for Runway 04-22; and
         (b)   One thousand eight hundred and thirty-three feet for Runway 12-
30.
      (3)   Safety Zone C. All that land which is enclosed within the perimeter
of the horizontal zone, as defined in §
156.20(A) of this chapter, and which is not included in Zone A or Zone B.
   (B)   Use restrictions.
      (1)   General. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth
in §
156.20(B) of this chapter, no use shall be made of any land in any of the
safety zones defined in division (A) above which creates or causes interference
with the operations of radio or electronic facilities on the airport, or with
radio or electronic communications between airport and aircraft, makes it
difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and other lights,
results in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport, impairs visibility in
the vicinity of the airport or otherwise endangers the landing, taking off or
maneuvering of aircraft.
      (2)   Zone A. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth
in §
156.20(B) of this chapter and to the general restrictions contained in division
(B)(1) above, areas designated as Zone A shall contain no buildings, temporary
structures, exposed transmission lines or other similar above-ground land use
structural hazards, and shall be restricted to those uses which will not
create, attract or bring together an assembly of persons thereof. Permitted
uses may include, but are not limited to, such uses as: agriculture (seasonal
crops), horticulture, animal husbandry, raising of livestock, wildlife habitat,
light outdoor recreation (non-spectator), cemeteries and auto parking.
      (3)   Zone B. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth
in §
156.20(B) of this chapter and to the general restrictions contained in division
(B)(1) above, areas designated as Zone B shall be restricted in use as follows.
         (a)   Each use shall be on a site whose area shall not be less than
three acres.
         (b)   Each use shall not create, attract or bring together a site
population that would exceed 15 times that of the site acreage.
         (c)   Each site shall have no more than one building plot upon which
any number of structures may be erected.
         (d)   A building plot shall be a single, uniform and non-contrived
area, whose shape is uncomplicated and whose area shall not exceed the
following minimum ratios with respect to the total site area:
 
Site Area at  But Less Than  Ratio of Site    Building Plot  Max. Site
Least (Acres) (Acres)        Area to Building Area (Sq. Ft.) Population (15
                             Plot Area                       Persons per Acres)
3             4              12:1             10,900         45
4             6              10:1             17,400         60
6             10             8:1              32,700         90
10            20             6:1              72,600         150
20            And up         4:1              218,000        300
 
         (e)   The following uses are specifically prohibited in Zone B:
churches, hospitals, schools, theaters, stadium, hotels and motels, trailer
courts, campgrounds and other places of frequent public or semi-public
assembly.
      (4)   Zone C. Zone C is subject only to height restrictions set forth in
§
156.20(B) of this chapter and to the general restrictions contained in division
(B)(1) above.
   (C)   Boundary limitations. The land use safety zoning restrictions set
forth in this section shall apply for a distance not to exceed one mile beyond
the perimeter of the airport boundary and in that portion of an airport hazard
area under the approach zone for a distance not exceeding two miles from the
airport boundary.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.22 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Regulations are not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this chapter
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other changes or
alterations of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of
the effective date of this chapter, or otherwise interfere with the continuance
of any non-conforming use. Nothing herein contained shall require and change in
the construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction
or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of this chapter
and is diligently prosecuted and completed within two years thereof.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.23 HAZARD MARKING AND LIGHTING.
   (A)   Non-conforming uses. The owner of any non-conforming structures or
tree is hereby required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance
thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the
airport the presence of such airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the city.
   (B)   Permits and variances. Any permit or variance granted by the Zoning
Administrator or Board of Adjustment, as the case may be, may, if such action
is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter and be reasonable
in the circumstances, so condition such permit or variance as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question, at his or her own expense, to
install, operate and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be
necessary to indicate to pilots the presence of an airport hazard.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.35 PERMITS.
   (A)   Future uses. Except as specifically provided in divisions (A)(1) and
(A)(2) below, no material change shall made in the use of the land and no
structure shall be erected, altered or otherwise established in any zone hereby
created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and granted by the
Zoning Administrator, hereinafter provided for. Each application for a permit
shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient
particularity to permit it to conform to the regulations herein prescribed. If
such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted. There
shall be no fee provided for an application for a permit.
      (1)   However, no permit for a tree or structure of less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground shall be required in the Horizontal and
Conical Zones; nor shall any permit be required in any Approach and
Transitional Zones beyond a horizontal distance of 4,200 feet from each end of
the runway except when such tree or structure, because of the terrain, land
contour or topographic features, would extend the height limit prescribed for
the respective zone.
      (2)   Nothing contained in division (A)(1) above shall be construed as
permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration or growth of any
structure or tree in excess of any of the height limitations established by
this chapter as set forth in §
156.20 of this chapter and the land use limitations set forth in §
156.21 of this chapter.
   (B)   Existing uses. Before any existing use or structure may be replaced,
substantially altered or repaired or rebuilt within any zone established
herein, a permit must be secured authorizing such replacement, change or
repair. No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or
creation of an airport hazard or permit a non-conforming use, structure or tree
to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date
of this chapter or any amendments thereto, or than it is when the application
for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit
shall be granted.
   (C)   Non-conforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Zoning
Administrator determines that a non-conforming structure or tree has been
abandoned or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no
permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the
applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
Whether application is made for a permit under division (C) or not, the Zoning
Administrator may order the owner of the abandoned or partially destroyed non-
conforming structure, at his or her own expense, to lower, remove, reconstruct
or equip the same in the manner necessary to conform to the provisions of this
chapter. In the event the owner of the non-conforming structure shall neglect
or refuse to comply with such order for ten days after receipt of written
notice of such order, the Zoning Administrator may, by appropriate legal
action, proceed to have the abandoned or partially destroyed non-conforming
structure lowered, removed, reconstructed or equipped and assess the cost and
expense thereof against the land on which the structure is or was located.
Unless such an assessment is paid within ninety days from the service of notice
thereof on the owner of the land, the sum shall bear interest at the rate of 8%
per annum from the date the cost and expense is incurred until paid, and shall
be collected in the same manner as are general taxes.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.36 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure,
or permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this chapter may apply to the Board of
Adjustment, hereinafter provided for, for a variance from such regulations.
Such application shall be by letter and shall be mailed by certified mail to
the Zoning Administrator. Such mailing shall constitute proper application to
the Board of Adjustment. If a person submits an application as herein provided
for variance by certified mail and the Board of Adjustment fails to grant or
deny the variance within four months after the last member receives the
application, the variance shall be deemed to be granted by the Board.
   (B)   When the variance is granted by reason of the failure of the Board to
act on the variance, the person receiving the variance shall notify the Board
by notice to the Zoning Administrator and the Commissioner of Transportation,
both by certified mail, that the variance has been granted. The applicant shall
include a copy of the original application for the variance with this notice to
the Commissioner.
   (C)   The variance shall be effective 60 days after this notice is received
by the Commissioner, subject to any action taken by the Commissioner pursuant
to Section 360.063, Subdivision 6a. Such variance shall be allowed where it is
duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations would
result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and relief granted would
not be contrary to the public interest, but do substantial justice and be in
accordance with the spirit of this chapter; provided, any variance so allowed
may be subject to any reasonable conditions that the Board of Adjustment or
Commissioner may deem necessary to effectuate the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.37 AIRPORT ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the City Zoning Administrator to administer and
enforce the regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and
variances shall be made to the City Zoning Administrator upon a form furnished
by him or her. Permit applications shall be promptly considered and granted or
denied by him or her. Variance applications shall be forthwith transmitted by
the City Zoning Administrator for action by the Board of Adjustment hereinafter
provided for.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.38 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members
appointed by the Airport Zoning Board; provided, however, that, the Owatonna
Airport Zoning Board shall appoint one such member as designated by the Town
Board of Clinton Falls Township, one such member as designated by the Town
Board of Owatonna Township, one such member as designated by the Town Board of
Medford Township and two such members as designated by the City Council of the
City of Owatonna. Each governing body entitled to designate a member to the
Board of Adjustment as herein provided shall submit such designation in writing
within 90 days of written notice to such governing body by the Owatonna Airport
Zoning Board acting by and through the City Zoning Administrator. In the event
a designating governing body shall fail to designate a member within said 90
days, then the Owatonna Airport Zoning Board shall appoint such member. Each
member shall serve for a term of three years and until his or her successor is
duly appointed and qualified. Of the five members first appointed, one shall be
appointed for a term of one year, two for a term of two years and two for a
term of three years. Upon their appointment, the members shall select a
Chairperson to act at the pleasure of the Board. Members shall be removable by
the Airport Zoning Board for cause, upon written charges, after a public
hearing.
   (B)   Powers. The Board of Adjustment shall have and exercise the following
powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of this
chapter;
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be required to
pass; and
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and
procedure in harmony with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the Board
of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other
times as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson or, in his or
her absence, the acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be
public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of it’s examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the
Zoning Administrator and shall be a public record.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and it’s legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming or modifying any order,
requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Administrator or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter or
to effect any variation on this chapter.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.39 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the
Zoning Administrator made in his administration of this chapter may appeal to
the Board of Adjustment. Such appeals may also be made by any governing body of
a municipal, county or airport zoning board, which is of the opinion that a
decision of the Zoning Administrator is an improper application of this chapter
as it concerns such governing body or board.
   (B)   All appeals hereunder must be commenced within 30 days of the Zoning
Administrator’s decision, by filing with the Zoning Administrator a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken. In addition, any person aggrieved, or
any taxpayer affected by any decision of the Zoning Administrator made in his
or her administration of this chapter who desires to appeal such decision shall
submit an application for a variance by certified mail to the members of the
Board of Adjustment in the manner set forth in Minn. Stat. § 360.068, Subd. 2,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance on the action
appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of
Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason
of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed, except by order of the Board of Adjustment on notice to the Zoning
Administrator and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person, by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination, as may be appropriate under the
circumstances, and to that end shall have all the powers of the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.40 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment, or any governing body of a municipal, county or airport zoning
board, which is of the opinion that the decision of the Board of Adjustment is
illegal may present to the District Court of the county a verified petition
setting forth that the decision or action is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to
the Court within 30 days after the decision is filed in the office of the Board
of Adjustment. The petitioner must exhaust the remedies provided in this
chapter before availing himself of the right to petition a court as provided by
this section.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Every person who shall construct, establish, substantially change, alter or
repair any existing structure or use, or permit the growth of any tree without
having complied with the provisions of this chapter or who, having been granted
a permit or variance under the provisions of this chapter, shall construct,
establish, substantially change or substantially alter or repair any existing
growth or structure or permit the growth of any tree, except as permitted by
such permit of variance, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $700 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or
both. Each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. The city acting through the Airport Zoning Administrator may enforce
all penalties as contained herein. The Airport Zoning Administrator may enforce
all provisions of this chapter through such proceedings for injunctive relief
and other relief as may be proper under the laws of Minn. Stat. § 360.073, as
it may be amended from time to time, and other applicable law.
(Ord. 1257, passed 5-15-2001)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Title and application
   
157.002   Rules and definitions
   
157.003   Non-conforming buildings, structures and uses
   
157.004   Non-conforming lots of record
   
157.005   Dwelling unit restrictions
   
157.006   Platted and unplatted property
   
157.007   General district provisions and purposes; establishment of districts
   
157.008   Effective date
District Regulations
   
157.020   Residential districts
   
157.021   Business districts
   
157.022   Industrial districts
   
157.023   I-P Industrial Park District
   
157.024   A-O Agriculture-Open Space District
   
157.025   FP Floodplain District
   
157.026   PUD Planned Unit Development District
   
157.027   MH Mobile Home-Manufactured Housing District
   
157.028   Density and intensity regulations
Special Regulations
   
157.040   Accessory buildings and structures
   
157.041   Permitted yard encroachments
   
157.042   Height limitations not applicable
   
157.043   Refuse
   
157.044   Outside storage
   
157.0445   Garage sales
   
157.045   Land reclamation
   
157.046   Mining
   
157.047   Soil processing
   
157.048   Student housing
   
157.049   Bulk storage (liquid, gas, grain and the like)
   
157.050   Relocated structures
   
157.051   General fencing requirements
   
157.052   Planned unit development
   
157.053   Off-street parking requirements
   
157.054   Off-street loading
   
157.055   Traffic visibility; corner lots
   
157.056   Wind energy conversion systems
   
157.057   Essential services
   
157.058   Solar collection systems
   
157.059   Temporary family health care dwellings opt-out
   
157.060   Accessory dwelling units
Performance Standards
   
157.070   Required fencing, screening and landscaping
   
157.071   Explosives
   
157.072   Radiation and electrical emissions
   
157.073   Lighting and glare
   
157.074   Smoke
   
157.075   Dust and other particulate matter
   
157.076   Odors
   
157.077   Noise
   
157.078   Drainage
   
157.079   Required license obtained
   
157.080   Outside sales or storage
Administration and Enforcement
   
157.095   Administrative Officer
   
157.096   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
157.097   Appeals
   
157.098   Amendments
   
157.099   Conditional use permits
   
157.100   Variances
   
157.101   Public hearings
   
157.102   Administrative fees
 
   
157.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 TITLE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the “Owatonna Zoning Ordinance”,
except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as “this chapter”.
   (B)   Intent and purpose. The intent of this chapter is to protect the
public health, safety and general welfare of the community and its people
through the establishment of minimum regulations governing development and use.
This chapter shall divide the city into use districts and establish regulations
in regard to locations, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of structures and land. Such regulations are established to protect such
use areas; to promote orderly development and redevelopment; to provide
adequate light, air and convenience of access to property; to prevent
congestion in the public right-of-way; to prevent overcrowding of land and
undue concentration of structures by regulating compatibility of different land
uses; to promote the character and preserve and enhance the stability of
properties and areas within the city; to protect against fire, explosion,
noxious fumes and pollution of the environment; to promote a visually pleasing
environment throughout the community; to provide for administration of this
chapter; to provide for amendments; to prescribe penalties for violation of
such regulations; and to define powers and duties of the city staff, the Board
of Adjustment and Appeals, the Planning Commission and the City Council in
relation to this chapter.
   (C)   Relation to Comprehensive Municipal Plan. It is the policy of the city
that the enforcement, amendment, and administration of this chapter be
accomplished with due consideration of the recommendations contained in the
Comprehensive Municipal Plan as developed and amended from time to time by the
Planning Commission and City Council. The Council recognizes the Comprehensive
Municipal Plan as the policy for responsibility to regulate land use and
development in accordance with the policies and purpose herein set forth.
   (D)   Standard; requirement. Where the conditions imposed by any provisions
of this chapter are either more or less restrictive than comparable conditions
imposed by other ordinance, rule or regulation of the city, the ordinance, rule
or regulation which imposes the more restrictive condition, standard or
requirements shall prevail.
   (E)   Minimum requirements. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety and welfare.
   (F)   Conformance.
      (1)   No structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed
or altered, and no structure or land shall be used for any purpose or in any
manner which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Except as herein provided, no building, structure or premises shall
hereafter be used or occupied and no building permit shall be granted that does
not conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Uses not provided for within zoning districts. Whenever in any zoning
district a use is neither specifically permitted nor denied, the use shall be
considered prohibited. In such case the City Council or the Planning
Commission, on their own initiative or upon request, may conduct a study to
determine if the use is acceptable and if so, what zoning district would be
most appropriate and the determination as to conditions and standards relating
to development of the use. The City Council, Planning Commission or property
owner, upon receipt of the staff study, shall, if appropriate, initiate an
amendment to this chapter to provide for the particular use under consideration
or shall find that the use is not compatible for development within the city.
   (H)   Authority. This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted
by the Municipal Planning Act, Minn. Stat. §§ 462.351 to 462.365, as they may
be amended from time to time.
   (I)   Separability. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city
that the several provisions of this chapter are separable in accordance with
the following.
      (1)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision
of this chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other
provisions of this chapter not specifically included in said judgment.
      (2)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property, building
or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other property, building or structure not specifically
included in said judgment.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983)
§ 157.002 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules. The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be
interpreted in accordance with the following rules of construction.
      (1)   The singular number includes the plural, and plural the singular.
      (2)   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses, and the
future the present.
      (3)   The word “shall” is mandatory while the word “may” is permissive.
      (4)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. An uninhabited structure having a roof supported by
walls or columns which is subordinate to and located on the same lot as the
principal use. An ACCESSORY BUILDING shall be considered an integral part of
the principal building by a covered passageway.
      ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A subordinate dwelling unit incorporated within
a single-family structure. Accessory units may not be subdivided or otherwise
segregated in ownership from the primary residence structure. Detached
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS are not permitted.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Anything which is built, constructed, erected or
joined together in some definite manner excluding buildings, which is
subordinate to and located on the same lot as the principal use.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use which is subordinate to and associated with a
principal use and which is located on the same lot as the principal use.
      ADULT DAY-CARE. A service that provides adult day-care for functionally
impaired adults during part of the day (less than 24 hours a day). No overnight
accommodations are provided and adults are delivered and removed daily.
      AGRICULTURE USES. Those uses commonly associated with the growing of
produce on farms. These include: field crop farming, pasture for hay, fruit
growing; tree, plant, shrub or flower nursery without building; truck
gardening; roadside stand for sale in season of products grown on premises; and
livestock raising and feeding, but not including, fur farms, commercial animal
feed lots and kennels. Uses are subject to state pollution control standards.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way less than 30 feet in width which affords
secondary access to abutting property.
      ANIMAL SHELTER. An establishment supported by charitable contributions
that provides a temporary home for dogs, cats, and other domesticated animals
that are offered for adoption. The shelter shall not house more than 50 dogs at
one time and shall not exceed a total of 100 animals at once. Such facility
must located a minimum of 1,000 feet from a residentially zoned property. All
outdoor exercise runs are permitted provided they are enclosed on all sides by
a sight obscuring fence or wall at least six feet in height.
      APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms which is designed for, intended for
or occupied as a residence by a single family or an individual, and is equipped
with cooking facilities. Includes dwelling unit and efficiency apartment.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR-MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning
engines, motor vehicles or trailers, collision service, including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair, overall painting or paint job; vehicle steam
cleaning.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR-MINOR. Minor repairs, incidental body and fender work,
painting and upholstering, replacement of parts and motor services to passenger
automobiles and trucks not exceeding 9,000 pounds gross weight, but not
including any operation specified under “automobile repair-major”.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partially underground but
having less than one-half its floor to ceiling height below the average land
grade.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. Lodging establishments providing short term guest
accommodations within the primary residence of the applicant. Such facility
must be licensed by the State Department of Health. The commercial serving of
food shall be limited to breakfasts served to overnight guests only. In
addition to meeting the parking requirement for a residence, one additional
hard-surfaced, off-street parking space per guest room shall be provided in the
rear yard adequately screened from adjacent residences. Conditional uses issued
for BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS shall be issued specifically to the
applicant and are not transferable with the property. Initial approval shall be
provisional, subject to a one-year review in accordance with the rules and
procedures of §
157.101 of this chapter. At such time, the conditional use may be issued;
issued subject to additional conditions or not issued if evidence is presented
that such use presents a negative impact on the surrounding neighborhood.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where, for compensation by
rearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided to
three or more persons, not of the principal family therein, pursuant to
previous arrangements and not to anyone who may apply, but not including a
building providing these services for more than ten persons.
      BOOK AND VIDEO SALES. The sale of books, magazines and videos.
      BREWER. A person who manufactures malt liquor for sale.
      BREWERY. A facility that manufactures malt liquor for sale.
      BREW PUB. A brewer who also holds one or more retail on-sale li-censes
and who manufactures fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year, at any
one licensed premises, the entire production of which is solely for consumption
on tap on any licensed premises owned by the brewer, or for off-sale from those
licensed premises as permitted in Minn. Stat. § 340A.24, Subd. 2.
      BREWER TAPROOM. A facility on the premises of or adjacent to the premises
owned by a brewer, licensed under Minn. Stat. § 340A.301, Subd. 6(c), (i) or
(j), intended for the on-sale consumption and limited off sale of beer produced
on site by the brewer as authorized by Minn. Stat. § 340A.26.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls used
or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. A distance to be measured from the mean ground level to
the top of a flat roof, to the mean distance of the highest gable on a pitched
or hip roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, to the uppermost point on all
other roof types.
      BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or which occupies time, attention, labor and materials, or
where services are offered for compensation.
      BUSINESS INCUBATOR. A shared-tenant facility that is designed to nurture
small, startup commercial and/or light industrial businesses. Such facilities
can be operated on a profit or not for profit basis and typically provide
tenants with below market rental rates, negotiable lease/space arrangements and
other services to assist new businesses through start up operations.
      CARPORT. A canopy constructed of metal or other materials supported by
posts either ornamental or solid and completely open on three sides.
      CELLAR. The portion of a building having more than one-half of the floor
to ceiling height below the average land grade.
      CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
      CLUB or LODGE. A non-profit association of persons who are bonafide
members paying annual dues, use of premises being restricted to members and
their guests. It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on such premises;
providing, adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are available.
Serving of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests shall be allowed;
providing, such serving is secondary and incidental to the operation of the
dining room for the purpose of serving food and meals and providing further
that such serving of alcoholic beverages is in compliance with the applicable
federal, state and municipal laws.
      COMMERCIAL FUELING STATION. A principal or accessory business that
provides only self-service fueling for automobiles and trucks through a pre-
arranged agreement such as a numbered credit account. There shall be no other
retail sales associated with the business, except by vending machine. There
shall also be no fueling attendants on duty or any such facilities that will
encourage overnight or extended parking.
      CONDITIONAL USE. An activity or use of the land, which because of special
problems of control intrinsic in the use, requires reasonable but special,
unusual and extraordinary limitations for the protection of the public welfare
and the integrity of the municipal land use plan.
      CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit, issued by the City Council in
accordance with procedures specified in this chapter, as a flexibility device
to enable the Council to assign dimensions to a proposed use or conditions
surrounding it after consideration of adjacent uses and their functions and the
special problems which the proposed use presents.
      CONDOMINIUM. A multiple dwelling containing individually owned dwellings
units and jointly owned and shared areas and facilities, which dwelling is
subject to applicable provisions of state statutes.
      CONVENIENCE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which serves food in or
on disposable or edible containers in individual servings for consumption on or
off the premises.
      DAY-CARE HOME. Restricted to a family dwelling in which foster care,
supervision and training for children of school or pre-school age out of their
own home is provided during part of the day (less than 24 hours) with no
overnight accommodations or facilities and children are delivered and removed
daily. The number to be cared for in one day-care home shall not exceed 12, not
including the family’s own children, and all licenses shall be obtained.
      DAY-CARE CENTER (GROUP). A service provided to the public, which children
of school or pre-school age are cared for during established business hours. No
overnight accommodations are provided and children are delivered and removed
daily. At least 50 square feet of fenced play area per pupil shall be provided.
      DECK. An accessory open and uncovered structure that is constructed more
than one foot above the height of the exterior finished grade elevation at any
point along its perimeter which is attached to or abutting the principal use
and is intended for recreational use.
      DETOXIFICATION FACILITY (SUB ACUTE). A short term health care and
evaluation center designed for the safe, supervised withdrawal from alcohol and
drugs, the evaluation of the patient’s involvement and possible dependency on
chemical substances and to refer patient to appropriate programs.
      DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city for which the regulations and
provisions governing the use of buildings and lands are uniform for each class
or use permitted herein.
      DOG KENNEL. Any place where five dogs or more over six months of age are
commercially boarded, bred and/or offered for sale, excluding a veterinary
clinic.
      DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which accommodates the patron's
automobile from which the occupants may receive a service or in which products
purchased from the establishment may be consumed.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, designated exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family and multiple-family
dwellings, but not including hotels, motels and boarding houses.
      DWELLING, MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOMES. A detached residential structure
transportable in one or more sections which in the traveling mode, is eight
body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected
on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis
and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation
when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating,
air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein; except that, the
term includes any structure which meets all the requirements and with respect
to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
Secretary of the State of Minnesota and complies with the standards established
under Minn. Stat. Ch. 327, § 327.31, as it may be amended from time to time.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE (APARTMENT). A building designed with three or more
dwelling units exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living
independently of each other, but sharing hallways and main entrances and exits.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling unit designed exclusively
for occupancy by one family.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling designated exclusively for occupancy by
two families living independently of each other.
      DWELLING UNIT. A residential building or portion thereof intended for
occupancy by a family, but not including hotels, motels, nursing homes,
seasonal cabins, boarding or rooming houses, tourist homes or trailers.
      EARTH SHELTERED BUILDING. A building so constructed so that more than 50%
of the exterior surface area of the building, excluding garages or other
accessory buildings, is covered with earth, and all applicable Building Code
Standards are satisfied. Partially completed buildings shall not be considered
EARTH SHELTERED.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission
or distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems
operated by public utilities, municipal or other governmental agencies or under
franchise from government.
      FAMILY. One or more persons each related to the other by blood, marriage,
adoption or foster care, or a group of not more than five persons not so
related maintaining a common household and using common cooking and kitchen
facilities.
      FOOD VENDING VEHICLE. Every motor vehicle in which foods of any kind are
carried for the purposes of selling, at retail sale, on the city streets or
other public right-of-way.
      GARAGE-PRIVATE. An accessory building or accessory portion of the
principal building which is intended for and used to store the private
passenger vehicles of the family or families resident upon the premises, and in
which no business or industry is carried on.
      GARAGE-PUBLIC. A building or portion of a building, except any herein
defined as a private garage or as a repair garage, used for the storage of
motor vehicles or where any such vehicles are kept for remuneration or hire,
and in which any sale or gasoline, oil and accessories is only incidental to
the principal use.
      GARAGE SALE. A GARAGE SALE shall include rummage sales, basement sales,
yard sales, porch sales and all other periodic sales at a residential location
intended for the limited purpose of isolated or occasional sales for the
selling of used goods or home-crafted items by the residents thereof.
      GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION). The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the
building and the property line, or when the property line is more than five
feet from the building, between the building and a line five feet from the
building.
      GROSS FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several
floors of a building or buildings measured from the exterior walls, but not
including any space where the floor-to-ceiling height is less than six feet.
      HELIPORT. A helicopter landing area and base of operations including such
facilities as maintenance and overhaul, fueling, service, storage, tie-down
areas, hangars, passenger and cargo facilities, and other necessary buildings
and open spaces.
      HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any gainful occupation engaged in by the occupants of a
dwelling at or from the dwelling. Such activity shall be clearly incidental and
secondary to the residential use of the premises. Permissible HOME OCCUPATIONS
shall not include the conducting of a retail business other than by mail,
manufacturing business or a repair shop of any kind on the premises, except
television, shoe and small appliance repair, and no stock in trade shall be
kept or sold, except that which is clearly accessory to the principal use. No
other than persons residing on the premises shall be employed and no mechanical
equipment shall be employed that is not customarily found in the home and no
more than one room may be devoted to home occupation use. Such HOME OCCUPATION
shall not require internal or external alterations to involve construction
features not customarily found in dwellings. The entrance to the space devoted
to such occupations shall be within the dwelling. There shall be no exterior
display, no exterior signs, except as allowed in the sign regulations for the
zoning district in which such home occupation is located. There shall be no
exterior storage of equipment or materials used in the home occupations. No
HOME OCCUPATION shall be permitted which results in or generates more traffic
than one car for off-street parking at any one given point in time. Permissible
HOME OCCUPATIONS include, but are not limited to, the following: beauty shops;
art studio, dressmaking; special offices of a clergy member, lawyer, architect,
engineer, accountant or real estate agent or appraiser, when located in a
dwelling unit occupied by the same; and teaching, with musical, dancing and
other instruction limited to one pupil at a time.
      HOTEL. Any building or portion thereof occupied as the more or less
temporary abiding place of individuals and containing six or more guest rooms,
used, designated or intended to be used, let or hired out to be occupied, or
which are occupied by six or more individuals for compensation, whether the
compensation be paid directly or indirectly.
      INDUSTRIAL SERVICE BUSINESS. Certain business establishments where
providing a service or services to industrial concerns or their employees
accounts for a significant portion of the total operation. Such business must
not in any way restrict or negatively impact on the conduct of existing or
potential industrial operations. In addition to the standards for granting
conditional use permits in §
157.099 of this chapter, review of each proposed use under this section shall
include the assessment of potential impact on industrial operations including,
but not limited to, environmental permitting or licensing and the generation of
additional traffic into the industrial area; and that the proposed use does
legitimately provide a service or services to industrial firms or their
employees at such a significant portion of total operation as to justify the
location of the business in an industrial district as a matter of convenience
and efficient provision of services to industrial clientele and their
employees. Denial of the application for conditional use for INDUSTRIAL SERVICE
BUSINESS may be based entirely on the applicant’s failure to reasonably satisfy
the Planning Commission and City Council as to these standards.
      JUNK YARD. Land or buildings where waste, discarded or salvaged materials
are bought, sold, stored, exchanged, cleaned, packed, disassembled or handled,
including, but not limited to, scrap metal, rags, paper, hides, rubber
products, glass products, lumber products and products resulting from the
wrecking of automobiles or other vehicles.
      LOT (OF RECORD). A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise
legally described, as of the effective date of this chapter, or approved by the
city as a lot subsequent to such date and which is occupied by or intended for
occupancy by one principal building or principal use together with any
accessory buildings and such open spaces as required by this chapter and having
its principal frontage upon a street.
      LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, together with such open spaces as are required under the provisions
of this chapter, having not less than the minimum area required by this chapter
for a building site in the district in which such lot is situated and having
its principal frontage on a street, or a proposed street approved by the
Council.
      LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane within the lot lines.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or
more intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of
a single street, the interior angle of which is 135 degrees or less.
      LOT, DEPTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the front lot line
and the rear lot line measured from a 90-degree angle from the street right-of-
way (chord) within the lot boundaries.
      LOT, FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be for the purposes of complying
with this chapter, that boundary abutting a public right-of-way having the
least width. The owner of a corner lot may select either street line as the
front lot line; providing, the resulting setbacks will be compatible with the
existing or future setbacks of the adjoining properties subject to approval by
the Building Inspector or Zoning Administrator.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot, other than a corner lot, including through lots.
      LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership; except that, where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the LOT LINE shall be deemed to be the street or alley right-
of-way.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot fronting on two substantially parallel streets.
      LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
the building setback line.
      MOBILE HOME PARK, DEPENDENT. An approved mobile home park which has
underground utility service to each site and also restroom and washing
facilities as specified by the state.
      MOBILE HOME PARK, INDEPENDENT. An approved mobile home park which has
underground utility service to each site and only permits independent mobile
homes.
      MOTEL/MOTOR HOTEL. A building or group of detached, semi-detached or
attached buildings containing guest rooms or units, each of which has a
separate entrance directly from the outside of the building, or corridor, which
garage or parking space conveniently located to each unit, and which is
designed, used or intended to be used primarily for the accommodation of
transient guests traveling by automobile.
      MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL (TRUCK TERMINAL). A building in which freight
brought in by motor truck is assembled and sorted for routing in intra-state
and inter-state shipment.
      MOTOR FUEL STATION. A place where gasoline (stored only in underground
tanks) kerosene, motor oil and lubricants are retailed directly to the public
in premises. MOTOR FUEL STATION may include sale of vehicle related minor
accessories and minor auto repair, but not automobile major repair.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE. Any structure or use which on the
effective date of this chapter does not, even though lawfully established,
conform to the applicable conditions if the structure or use was to be erected
under the guidance of this chapter.
      NURSING HOME (REST HOME). A building having accommodations where care is
provided for two or more invalids, infirmed, aged convalescent or physically
disabled persons that are not of the immediate family; but not including
hospitals, clinics, sanitariums or similar institutions.
      OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE. A space accessible from the street, alley or
way, in a building or on the lot, for the use of trucks while loading or
unloading merchandise or materials. Such space shall be of such size as to
accommodate one truck of the type typically used in the particular business.
      OPEN SALES LOT. Any open land used or occupied for the purpose of buying,
selling and/or renting merchandise and for the storing of same prior to sale.
      PARKING RAMP. An accessory structure designed and used for the storage of
motor vehicles at, below and/or above grade.
      PARKING SPACE. An area, enclosed in the main building, in an accessory
building or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one automobile which has
adequate access to a public street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress
for an automobile.
      PATIO. An accessory open and uncovered structure or hard surfacing that
is no more than one foot above the height of the exterior finished grade
elevation at any point along its perimeter which is attached to or abutting the
principal use and is intended for recreational use.
      PERMITTED USE. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts; provided, it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and performance standards (if any) of such districts.
      PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
organization of any kind.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land developed as a unit rather than
as individual development wherein buildings may be located in relationship to
each other rather than to lot lines or zoning district boundaries. The PLANNED
UNIT DEVELOPMENT must be developed in compliance with §
157.052 of this chapter.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either permitted or
conditional.
      PRODUCTION PHASE WECS. Professionally designed wind machines that are
built in significant numbers on a continuing basis after testing. Wind machines
made from professionally designed kits will be considered PRODUCTION PHASE
WECS.
      PUBLIC USES. Uses owned or operated by municipal, school districts,
county, state or other governmental units.
      RECYCLING CENTER. A facility that is not a junkyard, in which recoverable
resources such as newspapers, cardboard, glassware and metal cans are
collected, separated, and processed prior to shipment to others who will use
those materials to manufacture new products. “Processing” is defined as the
preparation of material for efficient shipment by such means as baling,
briquetting, compacting, flattening, grinding, crushing, mechanical sorting,
shredding and cleaning. The facility must meet State Pollution Control Agency
requirements for recycling facilities. In B-2 Districts, outbound truck
shipments may be limited to an average of two per day and there shall be no
shredding, compacting, baling or other processing of ferrous metals other than
food and beverage containers. Under all circumstances, precautions shall be
taken to ensure the containment of recyclable resources while at the center.
      RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. Any facility, public or private, which for gain or
otherwise regularly provides one or more persons with a 24-hour per day
substitute for care, food, lodging, training, education, supervision,
habilitation, rehabilitation and treatment they need, but which for any reason
cannot be furnished in the person’s own home. Institutions under the control of
the Commissioner of Public Welfare, foster homes, residential treatment
centers, maternity shelters, group homes, residential programs or schools for
handicapped children, such facility shall be at least 1,320 feet from an
existing residential facility.
      RESTAURANT. An establishment which serves food in or on non-disposable
dishes to be consumed primarily while seated at tables or booths within the
building.
      RESTRICTED MANUFACTURING. Business engaged in the manufacture from
predominantly previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts,
including fabrication, assembly, packaging and internal storage. Such proposed
use shall be found to be compatible with surrounding land uses and specifically
shall be reviewed for impacts related to sound, vibration, odor, fumes, truck
traffic and chemical and manufacturing processes that could potentially pose a
health hazard or nuisance to the surrounding neighborhood. Such an operation
shall be limited to a building square footage of 15,000 square feet and a
minimum lot size of 40,000 square feet. Outside storage shall be prohibited.
Denial of the application for conditional use may be based entirely on the
applicant’s failure to reasonably satisfy the Planning Commission and City
Council as to compatibility and appropriateness of the business at the proposed
location.
      REVERSE VENDING MACHINE. An automated mechanical device which accepts at
least one or more types of empty beverage containers including, but not limited
to, aluminum cans, glass and plastic bottles and issues a cash refund or a
redeemable credit slip. A REVERSE VENDING MACHINE may sort and process
containers mechanically; provided that, the entire process is enclosed within
the machine. Such devices must be accessory to a principal use. Machines shall
not occupy parking spaces intended for the primary use that would reduce
available parking below that is required by this chapter, nor shall such
machines interfere with pedestrian and vehicular traffic or restrict
visibility. Signage shall be restricted to a location on the machine. Such
machines must be located at least three feet off the lot line.
      SENIOR CITIZEN HOUSING. Multiple dwelling building with open occupancy
generally limited to persons over 60 years of age. Not more than 10% of those
living in SENIOR CITIZEN HOUSING can be under 60. Elevator service must be
provided to each floor. Useable open space which at the minimum is equal to 20%
of the gross lot area is required. Such housing should be readily accessible to
shopping and medical facilities or arrangements for adequate transportation to
and from such facilities should be available to the residents.
      SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a building and street or
lot line. Distances are to be measured from the most outwardly extend portion
of the structure at ground level.
      SHOPPING CENTER. A grouping of retail business and service uses on a
single site with common parking facilities.
      SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED DWELLING. Two single-family dwellings with a zero
lot line on one side sharing a common wall, with the common wall and all
jointly owned or jointly utilized facilities including, but not limited to,
decks, utility lines and driveways being governed under a declaration of
covenants and restrictions approved by the city, and filed with the County
Recorder.
      STORY. The portion of a building included beneath the upper surface of a
floor and upper surface of floor next above; except that, the top-most story
shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the
top-most floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a basement or cellar or unused underfloor space is more than six
feet above grade as defined herein for more than 50% of the total perimeter is
more than 12 feet above grade as defined herein at any point, such basement,
cellar or unused underfloor space shall be considered as a STORY.
      THREE OR FOUR SEASON PORCH. An enclosed, partially transparent, roofed
structure attached to the main floor level of the principal structure. Such
structure is constructed a minimum of 12 inches above the ground in which it is
located and is supported on pier style footings.
      TOWNHOUSES. Structures housing three or more dwelling units of not more
than two stories each and contiguous to each other only by the sharing of one
common wall, such structures to be of the town or row house type as contrasted
to multiple-dwelling apartment structures. No single structure shall contain in
excess of eight dwelling units and each dwelling unit shall have separate and
individual front and rear entrances.
      USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained, and shall include the performance of such activity as defined by
the standards of this chapter or by conditions imposed on particular uses.
      USEABLE OPEN SPACE. A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which
is graded, developed, landscaped and equipped and intended and maintained for
either active or passive recreation or both, available and accessible to and
useable by only persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot
and their guests. Such areas shall be grassed and landscaped or covered only
for a recreational purpose. Roofs, driveways and parking areas shall not
constitute USEABLE OPEN SPACE.
      VARIANCE. The waiving by City Council action of the literal provisions of
this chapter in instances where their strict enforcement would cause undue
hardship because of physical circumstances unique to the individual property
under consideration.
      WAREHOUSING. The storage of materials or equipment within an enclosed
building as a principal use.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). Any device such as a wind charger,
windmill or wind turbine which converts wind energy to a form of useable
energy.
      YARD. An open space on the lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from
its lowest level to the sky. A YARD extends along a lot line at right angles to
such lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the
zoning district in which such lot is located.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between the
side lot lines and lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest line
of the principal building.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between the side line of the lot and the nearest line
of the principal building and extending from the front line of the lot to the
rear yard.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1052, passed 2-4-1992; Ord. 1061, passed 6-
16-1992; Ord. 1087, passed 2-28-1994; Ord. 1090, passed 5-17-1994; Ord. 1113,
passed 5-16-1996; Ord. 1139, passed 6-4-1996; Ord. 1145, passed 8-6-1996; Ord.
1147, passed 8-20-1996; Ord. 1168, passed 8-19-1997; Ord. 1255, passed 5-1-
2001; Ord. 1487, passed 8-1-2012; Ord. 1491, passed 1-8-2013; Ord. 1504, passed
7-2-2013; Ord. 1518, passed 2-17-2015; Ord. 1543, passed 9-20-2016; Ord. 1546,
passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 1578, passed 4-3-2018; Ord. 1596, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 157.003 NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to provide for the regulation on
non-conforming buildings, structures and uses and to specify those
requirements, circumstances and conditions under which non-conforming
buildings, structures and uses will be operated and maintained. This chapter
establishes separate districts, each of which is an appropriate area for the
location of uses which are permitted in that district. It is necessary and
consistent with the establishment of these districts that non-conforming
buildings, structures and uses not be permitted to continue without
restriction. Furthermore, it is the intent of this section that all non-
conforming uses shall be eventually brought into conformity.
   (B)   Any structure or use lawfully existing upon the effective date of this
chapter shall not be enlarged, but may be continued at the size and in the
manner of operation existing upon such date, except as hereinafter specified,
or subsequently amended.
   (C)   Nothing within this chapter shall prevent the placing of a structure
in safe condition when said structure is declared unsafe by the Building
Inspector providing the necessary repairs shall not constitute more than 50% of
fair market value of such structure. Said value shall be determined by the
County Assessor.
   (D)   No non-conforming building, structure or use shall be moved to another
lot or to any other part of the parcel of land upon which the same was
constructed or was conducted at the time of this chapter adoption unless such
movement shall bring the non-conformance into compliance with the requirements
of this chapter.
   (E)   When a lawful non-conforming use of any structure or land in any
district has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be
changed to any non-conforming use.
   (F)   A lawful non-conforming use of a structure or parcel of land may be
changed to lessen the non-conformity of use. Once a non-conforming structure or
parcel of land has been so changed, it shall not thereafter be so altered to
increase the non-conformity.
   (G)   If at any time a non-conforming building, structure or use shall be
destroyed to the extent of more than 50% of its fair market value, said value
to be determined by the County Assessor, then without further action by the
Council, the building and the land on which such building was located or
maintained shall, from and after the date of said destruction, be subject to
all the current regulations specified by these zoning regulations for the
district in which such land and buildings are located, except a single-family
dwelling may be restored or reconstructed to its former extent provided it has
the same footprint, the same square footage and is in the same location as the
original non-conforming dwelling. Any building which is damaged to an extent of
less than 50% of its value may be restored to its former extent. Estimate of
the extent of damage or destruction shall be made by the Building Inspector.
   (H)   Whenever a lawful non-conforming use of a structure or land is
discontinued for a period of six months, following written notice from an
authorized agent of the city, any future use of said structure or land shall be
made to conform with the provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing or
related to a lawful non-conforming use is permitted, including necessary non-
structural repairs and incidental alterations which do not physically extend or
intensify the non-conforming use.
   (J)   Alterations may be made to a building containing lawful non-conforming
residential units when they will improve the livability thereof; provided, they
will not increase the number of dwelling units or size or volume of the
building; except that, existing residential structures with non-conforming side
yard setbacks may be expanded in line with the existing structure; provided
that, there is at least a three-foot side yard setback; at least six feet is
maintained between the proposed addition and any structure on the immediately
adjacent lot; the addition does not increase the non-conforming building line
by more than 75% of the original length of the building; and expansion does not
involve an attached garage.
   (K)   Any proposed structure which will, under this chapter, become non-
conforming but for which a building permit has been lawfully granted prior to
the effective date of this chapter, may be completed in accordance with the
approved plans; provided construction is started within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter, is not abandoned for a period of more than 120
days, and continued to completion within two years. Such structure and use
shall thereafter be a legally non-conforming structure and use.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1061, passed 6-16-1992; Ord. 1168, passed 8-
19-1997; Ord. 1285, passed 7-16-2002) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.004 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   A lot of record existing upon the effective date of this chapter in a
residence district which does not meet the requirements of this chapter as to
area or width may be utilized for single-family detached dwelling purposes or
two family, duplex dwelling purposes; provided, adequate zoning currently
exists; and, provided, the measurements of such area or width are within 75% of
the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983)
§ 157.005 DWELLING UNIT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No cellar, basement (except multiple-family dwellings and dwellings
that are of earth sheltered construction as defined in §
157.002 of this chapter), garage, tent or accessory building shall, at any
time, be used as an independent residence or dwelling unit, temporarily or
permanently.
   (B)   Basements may be used as living quarters or rooms as a portion of
residential dwellings.
   (C)   Tents, play houses or similar structures may be used for play or
recreational purposes.
   (D)   Not withstanding any other provisions of this chapter, in all zoning
districts where single-family residences are permitted, except in the MH Mobile
Home District, the following design criteria shall apply for all single-family
detached dwellings:
      (1)   A minimum width of 24 feet not including any attached garage;
      (2)   A minimum length of 24 feet not including any attached garage;
      (3)   A minimum total square footage of 600 square feet not including
overhangs and other projections;
      (4)   Roof shall have a minimum pitch of 3:12 for at least 60% of the
total roof area;
      (5)   Roof must be covered with shingles, tile, shakes or metal seam and
batten roofing manufactured with a factory-applied finish except a galvanized
finish; and
      (6)   Exterior walls shall be placed upon and secured to a permanent
foundation of concrete, masonry or treated wood construction and shall include
frost footings, all in accordance with the State Building Code.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1255, passed 5-1-2001; Ord. 1304, passed 1-7-
2003) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.006 PLATTED AND UNPLATTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person desiring to improve property shall submit to the Zoning
Administrator a survey of said premises and information on the location and
dimensions of existing and proposed buildings, location of easements crossing
the property, encroachments and any other information which may be necessary to
ensure conformance to city ordinance.
   (B)   All buildings shall be so placed so that they will not obstruct future
streets which may be constructed by the city in conformity with existing
streets and according to the system and standards employed by the city.
   (C)   Except in the case of planned unit development, as provided for in §
157.052 of this chapter, not more than one principal building shall be located
on a lot. The words “principal building” shall be given their common, ordinary
meaning, in case of doubt or on any question of interpretation, the decision of
the Zoning Administrator shall be final, subject to the right of appeal to the
Zoning Board of Appeals and City Council.
   (D)   On a through lot (a lot fronting on two substantially parallel
streets), the rear lot line shall be defined as the arterial street, where
access is prohibited, and the minimum setback shall be 20 feet for applying the
yard and parking regulations of this chapter.
   (E)   Except in the Central Business District (B-3), no building shall be
located closer than 20 feet from any street right-of-way.
   (F)   No lot, yard or other open space shall be reduced in area or dimension
so as to make such lot, yard or open space less than the minimum required by
this chapter, and if the existing yard or other open space as existing is less
than the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced. No required open
space shall be included as part of any open space required for other
structures.
   (G)   Every single- and two-family residential structure hereafter erected
shall be so located on the lot so that at least a two-car garage, either
attached or detached, can be located on said lot.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1145, passed 8-6-1996) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.007 GENERAL DISTRICT PROVISIONS AND PURPOSE; ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The following zoning classifications are hereby established within the city.
   (A)   Residential districts.
      (1)   R-1, Single-Family Residential District. The purpose of the “R-1”
Single-Family District is to provide for low density single-family detached
residential dwelling units and directly related, complementary uses.
      (2)   R-2, Medium Density Single-Family Residential District. The purpose
of the “R-2” Medium Density Single-Family Residential District is to provide
for medium density single-family detached residential dwelling units, and
directly related complementary uses.
      (3)   R-3, Single- and Two-Family Residential District. The purpose of
the “R-3” Single- and Two-Family Residential District is to provide for low and
moderate density one- and two-unit dwellings and directly related,
complementary uses.
      (4)   R-4, Townhouse District. The purpose of Townhouse Residential
District is to provide for townhouses or one- and two-unit dwellings.
      (5)   R-5, Medium Density Residential District. The purpose of the “R-5”
Medium Density Residential District is to provide for medium density housing in
multiple family structures ranging up to and including 12 units and directly
related, complementary uses.
      (6)   R-6, High Density Residential District. The purpose of the “R-6”
High Density Residential District is to provide for high density residential
uses and directly related, complementary uses.
      (7)   R-B, Residential-Business District. The purpose of the “R-B”
Residential Business District is to provide for high density residential use
and for the transition in land use from residential to low intensity business
allowing for the intermixing of such uses.
   (B)   Business Districts.
      (1)   B-1, Neighborhood Business District. The purpose of the “B-1”
Neighborhood Business District is to provide for the establishment of local
centers for convenient, limited office rental or service outlets which deal
directly with the customer for whom the goods for services are furnished. These
centers are to provide services and goods only for the surrounding
neighborhoods and are not intended to draw customers from the entire community.
      (2)   B-2, Community Business District. The purpose of the “B-2”
Community Business District is to provide for medium density retail or service
activities on a community and regional market scale and to provide goods and
services to transient motor vehicle traffic. Such districts should be located
in areas well served by collectors or arterial street facilities.
      (3)   B-3, Central Business District. The purpose of the “B-3” Central
Business District is to provide for the development and redevelopment of high
intensity commercial and service activities, gaining economic advantage from a
concentration of complementary uses and drawing from and serving customers from
the entire market area.
   (C)   Industrial Districts.
      (1)   I-1, Light Industrial District. The purpose of the “I-1” Light
Industrial District is to provide for the establishment of warehousing and
light industrial development.
      (2)   I-2, Heavy Industrial District. The purpose of the “I-2” Heavy
Industrial District is to provide for the establishment of heavy industrial and
manufacturing development and use which, because of the nature of product or
character of activity, requires isolation from residential or commercial use.
   (D)   Special districts.
      (1)   I-P, Industrial Park District. The purpose of the “I-P” Industrial
Park District is to provide for the establishment of industrial development
that is compatible with surrounding or abutting districts and to encourage high
level performance standards. Development in the Industrial Park District is
limited to administrative, wholesaling, manufacturing and related compatible
uses, with suitable open spaces, landscaping and parking areas.
      (2)   A-O, Agriculture-Open Space District. The “A-O” Agriculture-Open
Space District is intended to provide a district which will allow suitable
areas of the city to be retained and utilized in open space and/or agricultural
uses, prevent scattered non-farm uses from developing improperly and secure
economy in government expenditures for public utilities and service.
      (3)   FP, Floodplain District. A district to provide for the protection
and preservation of water channels and those portions of the adjoining
floodplains which are reasonably required to carry and discharge a regional
flood that are subject to inundation by regional floods. It is intended that
this district apply to those areas which, if left unrestricted, could result in
loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce,
utilities and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for
floodplain protection and relief and impairment of the tax base, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare. This district
is furthermore created and applied in compliance with requirements of Minn.
Stat. Ch. 103A, 103F and 462, as they may be amended from time to time. In
addition, Minn. Rules, part 6115.0150 through 6115.0280, as may be amended,
shall be consulted in administering and applying this district.
      (4)   PUD, Planned Unit Development District. The purpose of this
district is to provide for the grouping of land parcels for development as an
integrated, coordinated unit as opposed to traditional parcel by parcel,
piecemeal, sporadic and unplanned approaches to development. This section is
intended to introduce flexibility of site design and architecture for the
conservation of land and open space through clustering of buildings and
activities through conditional use provisions. It is further intended that
planned unit developments are to be characterized by central management,
integrated planning and architecture, joint or common use of parking,
maintenance of open space and other similar facilities and a harmonious
selection and efficient distribution of uses.
      (5)   MH, Mobile Home Park. The purpose of the “MH” Mobile Home Park is
to provide for manufactured housing and mobile homes and directly related uses.
   (E)   Map. The location and boundaries of the districts established by this
chapter are hereby set forth on the Zoning Map entitled “Zoning Map of
Owatonna”, dated 4-19-1983, and amended from time to time thereafter. Said map,
on file with the Zoning Administrator and hereinafter referred to as the
“zoning map”, which map and all of the notations, references and other
information shown thereon shall have the same force and effect as if fully set
forth herein, is hereby made a part of this chapter by reference.
   (F)   Annexed territory. Annexed territory shall be in the A-O District
unless otherwise stipulated in the annexation ordinance or Municipal Board
annexation order.
   (G)   Zoning district boundaries. Zoning district boundary lines of this
chapter follow lot lines, railroad right-of-way lines, the center of
watercourses or the corporate limit lines, all as they exist upon the effective
date of this chapter.
      (1)   Appeals and questions of doubt concerning the exact location of a
zoning district boundary line shall be heard by the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals.
      (2)   When any street, alley or other public right-of-way is vacated by
official action of the city, the zoning district abutting the centerline of
said alley or other public right-of-way shall not be affected by such
proceeding.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1255, passed 5-1-2001)
§ 157.008 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and publication.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
Editor’s note:
   Permitted, accessory and conditional uses for the “R-1”, “R-2”, “R-3”, “R-
4”, “R-5”, “R-6” and “R-B” Districts; B-1, B-2 and B-3 Districts; and I-1 and
I-2 Districts are listed in the tables of §§
157.020,
157.021 and
157.022 of this chapter. The letter “P” indicates a permitted use; “A” an
accessory use; and “C” a conditional use. Procedures and standards for granting
conditional uses are found in §
157.099 of this chapter. All uses are subject to general performance standards
as provided for in §§
157.070 through
157.080 of this chapter. Uses listed in the tables are also subject to
applicable regulations in §§
157.040 through
157.058 of this chapter. Additional regulations and clarification of selected
uses are also found in §
157.002 of this chapter.
§ 157.020 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
Uses R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5 R-6 R-B
Uses                                                                   R- R- R- R- R- R- R-
                                                                       1  2  3  4  5  6  B
3-4 unit multi-family dwelling                                                  P  P  P  P
5-12 unit multi-family dwelling                                                    P  P  P
Accessory dwelling unit                                                P  P  P  P  P  P
Adult day-care                                                         C  C  C  C  C  C  C
Agricultural uses                                                      P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Ambulance service                                                                        C
Bed and breakfast establishments-not to exceed 6 guests and 3 guest
rooms (must provide at least 1 additional off-street parking space for C  C  C  C  P  P  P
each guest room)
Bed and breakfast establishments-not to exceed 10 guests and 5 guest
rooms (must provide additional off-street parking spaces for each                  P  P  P
guest room)
Boarding house (no more than 10 persons)                                           P  P  P
Boarding or renting of rooms to no more than 1 person                  A  A  A  A  A  A  A
Buildings combining residential and non-residential uses permitted or                    C
conditional in R-B District(2)
Cemeteries, mausoleums and crematory                                   C  C  C  C  C  C  C
Club or lodge with food and drink incidental                                             C
Conversion of single-family dwelling to no more than 4 unit multi-           C  P  P  P  P
family dwelling
Day-care center (group) (services more than 12)                        C  C  C  C  C  C  C
Day-care home (services no more than 12)                               P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Essential services                                                     P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Funeral homes, mortuaries                                                                C
Governmental and public utility buildings and structures               C  C  C  C  C  C  C
Group housing-nursing homes (service more than 16)                                    C  C
Home occupations                                                       A  A  A  A  A  A  A
Hospitals, clinics, professional or commercial offices                                   C
Multi-family (over 12 units)                                                          P  P
Non-commercial greenhouses                                             A  A  A  A  A  A  A
Non-commercial recreation facilities associated with residence         A  A  A  A  A  A  A
Off-site parking facilities for adjacent commercial or multi-family                   C  C
residential
Off-street loading                                                                 A  A  A
Private garages, carports and off-street parking (associated with      A  A  A  A  A  A  A
residential uses)
Public or private educational institutions                             C  C  C  C  C  C  C
Public parks and playgrounds                                           P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Recreational buildings, community centers, churches and other          C  C  C  C  C  C  C
religious institutions
Residential facilities (services 1-6)                                  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Residential facilities (services 7-16)                                             C  C  C
Residential PUD (see §                                                C  C  C  C  C  C  C
157.052)
Retail sales associated and incidental to hospitals, clinics,
professional offices or to meet the everyday needs of the building’s                   C
tenants or residents(1)
Senior citizen housing                                                                   C
Single-family attached dwelling                                              P  P  P  P  P
Single-family detached dwelling                                        P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Storage of recreational vehicles and equipment                         A  A  A  A  A  A  A
Tool houses, sheds, storage building (non-commercial associated with   A  A  A  A  A  A  A
residence)
Townhouse                                                                    C  P  P  P  P
Two-family dwelling                                                          P  P  P  P  P
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) Merchandise is sold at retail. The retail activity is located within a structure whose
principal use is not commercial sales. The retail activity shall not occupy more than 15%
of the gross floor area of the building. The retail activity is not located within a
structure whose principal use is residential, except if the retail goods and services
provided are intended to meet the needs of the residents of the building and surrounding
neighborhood. Such use shall be limited to convenience grocery stores, self-service
laundromats, barber shops and beauty shops. No signs or posters of any type advertising
products for sale shall be visible from the outside of the building.
(2) Residential and non-residential uses cannot be on the same floor and shall in no way
conflict with each other.
 
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1061, passed 6-16-1992; Ord. 1113, passed 5-
16-1996; Ord. 1168, passed 8-19-1997; Ord. 1596, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 157.021 BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
Uses B-1(1) B-2 B-3
Uses                                                            B-1(1) B-2 B-3
Adult day-care                                                  C      C   C
Amusement places (dance halls, roller rinks, arcades, theaters,        P   P
health and recreation clubs, bowling alley and the like)
Auto accessory                                                         P   P
Auto repair (major)                                                    C   C
Auto repair (minor)                                                    P   P
Automobile dealerships, motor vehicle and recreation equipment         P   P
and accessory garages
Bakery with baking for retail sales on-site                     P      P   P
Barbershops, beauty parlors                                     P      P   P
Bicycle sales and repair                                        P      P   P
Boat and marine sales                                                  P   C
Book and video sales                                            P      P   P
Brewery                                                                C   C
Brew Pub                                                               C   C
Brew Taproom                                                           C   C
Building materials                                                     P   P
Building, structure or use accessory to principal use           A      A   A
Business incubator                                                     P   P
Camera and photographic supplies                                P      P   P
Car wash                                                        C(3)   C   C
Churches                                                        C      C   C
Clothing sales and tailoring                                    P      P   P
Clubs and lodges                                                C      P   P
Commercial greenhouse                                                  C   C
Commercial PUD (refer to § 157.052)                            C      C   C
Convenience food (on or off-site consumption - such as coffee   P      P   P
shops, delicatessens, doughnut shops and ice cream parlors)
Convenience stores                                              P      P   P
Custom manufacturing (optical, arts, crafts, watches, jewelry,         C   C
dental)
Department, discount and furniture stores                              P   P
Detoxification facility                                                C   C
Drive up or drive through facilities from which business is
transacted directly with customers located in a motor vehicle   C      C   C
during such business transactions
Drug stores                                                     P      P   P
Dry cleaning and laundromats                                    P      P   P
Essential services                                              P      P   P
Financial institutions                                          P      P   P
Florist shop                                                    P      P   P
Food vending vehicle                                                       C
Gas stations (principal or incidental)                          C(4)   C   C
Government and utility offices                                  P      P   P
Grocery, fruit or vegetable stores                                     P   P
Group day-care centers                                          C      C   C
Hardware store                                                  P      P   P
Implement sales/service, feed store                                    C   C
Major appliances, sales and repair                                     P   P
Mini-storage facilities                                                C   C
Motels/hotels                                                          C   P
Multi-family housing                                                   P   P
Off-street loading                                              A      A   A
Off-street parking (not including semi-trailer truck)           A      A   A
Open and outdoor service, sales and rentals as a principal or
accessory use, including sales in or from motorized vehicles,   C      C
trailers or wagons(5)
Paint and wallpaper sales                                       P      P   P
Parking ramp                                                               C
Personal services                                               P      P   P
Plumbing, heating and electrical                                       P   P
Post secondary educational and vocational or career training           C   C
facilities
Printing, newspaper, communications                                    P   P
Professional and commercial offices (medical, dental, lawyer,   P      P   P
real estate, insurance, travel agent, accountant and the like)
Public garages                                                         P   P
Radio/tv station without transmitting tower                            P   P
Recycling center                                                       C
Restaurants, taverns, off-sale liquor                                  P   P
Restricted manufacturing                                               C
Retail sales of art, art supplies, school and office supplies,  P      P   P
and stationery
Retail store 30,000 square feet or greater                             C   C
Reverse vending machines                                        C      C   C
Shopping center over 30,000 square feet                                C   C
Shopping center under 30,000 square feet                        P      P   P
Small appliances, sales and repair                              P      P   P
Taxi or bus terminal                                                   P   P
Variety, notions, handicraft, jewelry, hobby and gift           P      P   P
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) Principal building size shall not exceed 30,000 square feet.
(2) (Deleted)
(3) Limited to self-service mini-car wash, no more than 2 washing bays; and
design of facility shall limit its use to automobiles and small trucks (not to
exceed a gross weight of 9,000 pounds).
(4) Gas sales must be associated with convenience grocery stores and number of
fuel dispensing units does not exceed 2.
(5) Does not constitute more than 30% of the lot area, and not more than 50%
of the gross floor area of the principal use.
 
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1061, passed 6-16-1992; Ord. 1090, passed 5-
17-1994; Ord. 1113, passed 5-16-1996; Ord. 1121, passed 9-5-1995; Ord. 1160,
passed 4-15-1997; Ord. 1168, passed 8-19-1997; Ord. 1286, passed 7-16-2002;
Ord. 1295, passed 10-15-2002; Ord. 1504, passed 7-2-2013; Ord. 1543, passed 9-
20-2016)
§ 157.022 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
Uses I-1 I-2
Uses                                                                    I-1 I-2
Acid manufacture                                                            C
Airports and accessory uses that support airport operations             P
Animal shelters                                                         C   P
Blacksmith, welding or other metal shop                                 P   P
Brewery                                                                 P   P
Brew Pub                                                                P   P
Brewer Taproom                                                          P   P
Bus, railroad, motor freight or trucking terminals and maintenance      P   P
garage
Business incubator                                                      P   P
Commercial and industrial laundry services                              P   P
Commercial building, structure or use accessory to the principal use(1) A   A
Commercial fueling station                                              C   C
Commercial stock yards and slaughtering of animals                          C
Creosote plant                                                              C
Crude oil, gasoline or other liquid storage tanks incidental to the     A   A
principal use
Essential services                                                      P   P
Fertilizer, fuel briquettes, chemical manufacturing                         C
Foundry casting; lightweight, non-ferrous metals or electric foundry    P   P
not causing noxious fumes or odors
Governmental and public utility buildings and structures                P   P
Heliport                                                                C   C
Incineration or reduction of waste material other than customarily          C
incidental to a principal use
Industrial service business                                             C
Junk yard (open storage), similar uses                                      C
Kilns or other heat processes fired by means other than electricity         C
Laboratories                                                            P   P
Machine shops                                                           P   P
Manufacture of dairy products, cold storage, distribution, bottling     P   P
plant
Manufacture of musical instruments, novelties and molded rubber         P   P
Manufacture of pottery, ceramic products using only previously          P   P
pulverized clay and electric or gas kilns
Manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, instruments and the   P   P
like
Manufacture/repair electrical signs, advertising devices and the like   P   P
Manufacture/repair light sheet metal products                           P   P
Manufacturing, assembly or treatment of previously prepared products    P   P
(cloth, leather, paper, plastic, metals, stone, wood and the like)
Manufacturing, compounding, assembly, packaging, treatment or storage
of products including: cement, concrete, stone cutting, brick, glass,
batteries, ceramic products, mill working, metal polishing and plating,     P
paint, vinegar works, rendering of fats and oils, rubber products,
plastic, asphalt and similar uses
Manufacturing, processing, packaging or cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and  P   P
food products
Milling, distillation and similar uses, grain elevators                     C
Motor vehicle and/or major repair                                       P   P
Off-street loading                                                      A   A
Off-street parking (including semi-trailer trucks)                      A   A
Offices associated with principal use                                   A   A
Oil, gasoline, liquid fertilizer, propane or other chemical storage
tanks (principal or accessory use), storage capacity exceeds 12,000     C   C
gallons
Open and outdoor storage                                                C   C
Open or outdoor service sale and rental as an accessory use, and        C   C
including sales in or from motor vehicles, trailers or wagons(1)
Radio and television transmission towers and stations                   P   P
Recycling center                                                        P   P
Refuse and garbage disposal                                                 C
Research laboratories                                                   P   P
Storage, utilization or manufacture of materials or products which          C
could decompose by detonation
Warehouses and wholesaling                                              P   P
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) Limited to 30% of the gross floor area of the principal use.
 
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1052, passed 2-4-1992; Ord. 1087, passed 2-
28-1994; Ord. 1118, passed 8-1-1995; Ord. 1160, passed 4-15-1997; Ord. 1365,
passed 4-19-2005; Ord. 1372, passed 7-5-2005; Ord. 1407, passed 2-6-2007; Ord.
1543, passed 9-20-2016 ; Ord. 1546, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 157.023 IP INDUSTRIAL PARK DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in an “IP” District:
      (1)   Bottling establishments;
      (2)   Building material sales and storage;
      (3)   Broadcasting antennas, television and radio;
      (4)   Camera and photographic supplies manufacturing;
      (5)   Cartage and express facilities;
      (6)   Stationery, bookbinding and other types of manufacturing of paper
and related products, but not processing of raw materials for paper production;
      (7)   Dry cleaning establishments and laundries;
      (8)   Electric light or power generating stations, electrical and
electronic products manufacture, electrical service shops;
      (9)   Engraving, printing and publishing;
      (10)   Jewelry manufacturing;
      (11)   Medical, dental and optical laboratories;
      (12)   Storage or warehousing;
      (13)   Wholesale business-office establishments; hardware manufacture;
      (14)   Any manufacturing, production, processing, cleaning, storage,
servicing, repair and testing of materials, goods or products providing no
noxious or offensive trade or activity shall be carried on, nor shall anything
be done thereon which may be or become an annoyance or a nuisance or constitute
a hazardous or dangerous condition or activity by reason of unsightliness or
the excessive emission of odors, dust, fumes, smoke or noise, vibrations or
otherwise;
      (15)   Business incubator;
      (16)   Post secondary schools;
      (17)   Brewery;
      (18)   Brew pub; and
      (19)   Brewer taproom.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses
in an “IP” District:
      (1)   Buildings and structures for a use accessory to the principal use;
      (2)   Offices accessory to the principal use;
      (3)   Off-street parking as regulated by §
157.053 of this chapter;
      (4)   Off-street loading as regulated by §
157.054 of this chapter; and
      (5)   Signs as regulated by
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Procedures and design standards. All petitions for developing in an
“IP” District shall comply with the provisions of §
157.052 of this chapter, in addition to the following requirements.
      (1)   All petitions for developing an Industrial Park, and for rezoning
to establish or expand an “IP” Industrial Park District, must follow
subdivision platting procedures and a preliminary plat with all supporting data
required must be filed with the city.
      (2)   (a)   Upon finding by the Planning Commission that the proposed
“IP” Industrial Park and preliminary plat constitutes an industrial district of
sustained desirability, will be consistent with long range Comprehensive Plans
for the city and will meet with the specifications of this section, and all
performance standards and landscaping provisions of this chapter, the City
Council may establish an “IP” Industrial Park District on the property included
in the preliminary plat.
         (b)   Any change to the submitted plat will require submittal to and
approval by the Planning Commission and City Council.
      (3)   All public rights-of-way within the “IP” Industrial Park District
shall be designed and constructed in accordance with city standards and shall
be approved by the City Engineer.
   (D)   Building design and construction. In addition to other restrictions of
this chapter and the requirements of the Uniform Building Code, as amended, all
buildings constructed or proposed to be constructed in the “I-P” District shall
conform to the following requirements:
      (1)   All exterior wall finishes on any building shall be of one or more
of the following:
         (a)   Face brick;
         (b)   Natural stone;
         (c)   Professionally designed precast concrete units if the surfaces
have been integrally treated with an applied decorative material or texture;
         (d)   Factory fabricated and finished metal framed panel construction,
if the panel materials be any of those listed in divisions (D)(1)(a), (D)(1)(b)
or (D)(1)(c) above, glass, prefinished metal (other than unpainted galvanized
iron) or plastic, in accordance with the Building Code requirements; and
         (e)   Other materials as may be approved by the Council.
      (2)   All subsequent additions and outbuildings constructed after the
erection of an original building or buildings shall be constructed of materials
comparable to those used in the original construction and shall be designed in
a manner conforming with the original architectural design and general
appearance.
   (E)   Building permit requirements. No development of any lot or combination
of lots in the “IP” District shall be commenced and no building permits will be
issued therefor until all of the following requirements have been met.
      (1)   (a)   A complete site plan and building plans and specifications
shall be submitted as prepared by a registered architect.
         (b)   The architect shall certify that the plans were prepared
specifically for the subject site.
         (c)   The site plan shall include location of buildings, driveways,
driveway intersections with streets, parking areas, loading areas, sidewalks,
curbs and screening as required by this chapter.
      (2)   Site grading plans shall be submitted, indicating existing and
proposed grades and provisions for surface drainage.
      (3)   Proposed design, location, size and lighting of all signs, if any
shall be submitted.
      (4)   Detailed landscaping plans prepared and signed by a landscape
architect shall be submitted.
      (5)   The applicant shall submit any additional plans and specifications
requested by the city to ascertain compliance with this chapter.
      (6)   Performance bond provided for in §
157.099 of this chapter must be on file.
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading areas.
      (1)   Provisions for off-street parking and loading shall comply with §§
157.053 and
157.054 of this chapter.
      (2)   No loading berth shall be constructed at the front of any building.
   (G)   Landscaping and screening.
      (1)   Provisions for landscaping and screening shall comply with §§
157.051 and
157.070 of this chapter.
      (2)   The owner shall have a continuing responsibility to maintain such
landscaping and any required screening in reasonable condition.
      (3)   No fences other than those designed to serve as screening or
decorative effect are permitted in the “IP” District.
   (H)   Storage restriction. No open storage or materials shall be allowed in
the “IP” District, except vehicles and road maintenance equipment. No open
sales lots or salvage yards shall be allowed.
   (I)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in an “I-P” District, subject to additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Lot area: 10,000 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 100 feet; and
      (3)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Front yard: 50 feet;
         (b)   Side yard: 20 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard: 30 feet.
   (J)   Building requirements; height. No structure shall exceed three stories
or 45 feet, whichever is greater, except structures in excess of three stories
or 45 feet may be permitted as a conditional use subject to the requirements
and procedures of §
157.099 of this chapter; and, provided that, for each additional story over
three stories or for each additional ten feet above the 45 feet, front and side
yard setback requirements shall be increased five feet.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1110, passed 5-2-1995; Ord. 1168, passed 8-
19-1997; Ord. 1233, passed 5-16-2000; Ord. 1543, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 157.024 A-O AGRICULTURAL-OPEN SPACE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in an “A-O” District:
      (1)   Agriculture, including farm dwellings and agricultural related
buildings and structures subject to state pollution control standards, but not
including commercial feed lots or other commercial operations;
      (2)   Public parks, recreational areas, wildlife areas and game refugees;
      (3)   Nurseries and tree farms; and
      (4)   Essential services.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses
in an “A-O” District:
      (1)   Operation and storage of such vehicles, equipment and machinery
which are incidental to permitted or conditional uses allowed in this district;
      (2)   The boarding or renting of rooms to not more than two persons;
      (3)   Living quarters of persons employed on the premises; and
      (4)   Home occupations.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses in an “A-O”
District (requires a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in
and regulated by §
157.099 of this chapter):
      (1)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures necessary
for the health, safety and general welfare of the community provided that: when
abutting a residential use in a residential use district, the property is
screened and landscaped in compliance with §
157.051 of this chapter;
      (2)   Commercial outdoor recreational areas including golf courses and
clubhouse, country clubs, swimming pools and similar facilities; provided that:
         (a)   The principal use, function or activity is open, outdoor in
character;
         (b)   Not more than 5% of the land area of the site be covered by
buildings or structures;
         (c)   When abutting a residential use and a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
157.051 of this chapter; and
         (d)   The land area of the property containing such use or activity
meets the minimum established for the districts.
      (3)   Commercial riding stables, dog kennels and similar uses; provided
that:
         (a)   Animal building, holding and exercise areas shall be located a
minimum of 1,000 feet from any residential, commercial or industrial use
district;
         (b)   The land area of the property containing such use or activity
meets the minimum established for the district; and
         (c)   All applicable requirements of the State Pollution Control
Agency are complied with.
      (4)   Recreational, travel vehicle camp sites (not including mobile
homes); provided that:
         (a)   The land area of the property containing such use or activity
meets the minimum established for the district;
         (b)   The site be served by a major or arterial street capable of
accommodating traffic which will be generated;
         (c)   All driveways and parking areas be surfaced;
         (d)   Plans for utilities and waste disposal shall be reviewed by the
City Engineer and shall be subject to his or her approval, and all applicable
requirements of the State Pollution Control Agency are complied with;
         (e)   Not more than 5% of the land area of the site be covered by
buildings or structures;
         (f)   The location of such use be a minimum 100 feet from any abutting
residential use district; and
         (g)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances and shall not impact adjoining or
surrounding residential uses.
   (D)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in an “A-O” District, subject to additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Lot area: 20,000 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 100 feet; and
      (3)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Front yards: not less that 50 feet;
         (b)   Side yards: 30 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yards: 50 feet.
   (E)   Building requirements; height. No structure shall exceed two and one-
half stories or 25 feet, whichever is the lesser; except that, structures in
excess of two and one-half stories or 25 feet are permitted as conditional uses
as regulated by §
157.099 of this chapter.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. passed 5-15-1990)
§ 157.025 FP FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   See
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983)
§ 157.026 PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in a “PUD” District:
all uses allowed §§
157.020,
157.021,
157.022,
157.023,
157.024 and
157.027 of this chapter.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses
in a “PUD” District: all accessory uses allowed in §§
157.020,
157.021,
157.022,
157.023,
157.024 and
157.027 of this chapter.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   The following are conditional uses in a “PUD” District: all
conditional uses allowed in §§
157.020,
157.021,
157.022,
157.023,
157.024 and
157.027 of this chapter.
      (2)   This requires a conditional use permit based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §
157.099 of this chapter.
   (D)   Special procedures. The establishment of a “PUD” Planned Unit
Development District shall be subject to the amendment requirements as outlined
in §
157.098 of this chapter and the procedures and conditions imposed by planned
unit development procedures in §
157.052 of this chapter.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1255, passed 5-1-2001)
§ 157.027 MH MOBILE HOME-MANUFACTURED HOUSING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in an “MH” District:
mobile home park (independent or dependent).
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   No mobile home for residential purposes shall be permitted on
any site within the city unless said site is part of an approved mobile home
court or unless it is located on land purchased by the mobile home owner served
by utilities as required by state law, and such land has been, prior to passage
of this chapter, specially developed and formally platted for the placement of
mobile homes.
         (b)   Mobile homes shall not be used for residential purposes in the
city if they:
            1.   Do not conform to the requirements of Minn. Stat. §§ 327.14 et
seq., 327B.01 et seq. and 327C.01 et seq.;
            2.   Are in an unsanitary conditions or have an exterior in bad
repair;
            3.   Are structurally unsound and do not protect the inhabitants
against all elements; and
            4.   Do not have adequate sewage facilities as required by the City
Council in accordance with State Pollution Control Agency regulations.
         (c)   All land areas shall be:
            1.   Adequately drained;
            2.   Landscaped to control dust;
            3.   Clean and free from refuse, garbage, rubbish or debris;
            4.   No tents shall be used for other than recreational purposes in
a mobile home park;
            5.   There shall be no outdoor camping anywhere in a mobile home
park;
            6.   No public address or loudspeaker system shall be permitted in
such park;
            7.   Dogs and animals shall not run at large within the mobile home
park;
            8.   Access to mobile home parks shall be as approved by the city;
            9.   The operator of every mobile home park shall maintain a
registry of the mobile home park showing:
               a.   The name and address of each resident mobile home owner;
               b.   The make, type and license number of each mobile home and
automobile;
               c.   Forwarding address of all mobile units leaving the park;
and
               d.   Date of arrival and departure of each mobile home.
            10.   All structures (storage, cabana, or other) shall require a
building permit from the City Building Inspector;
            11.   The area beneath a mobile home coach shall be enclosed;
except that, such enclosure must have access for inspection;
            12.   No more than 10% of all trailer sites in a dependent mobile
park shall be occupied by transient (less than seven days’ occupancy) coaches;
            13.   No building, cabana, carport, awning, storage closet,
cupboard or other structure shall be permitted on a transient trailer site
except plumbing and electrical service connections;
            14.   a.   Where the mobile home court is dependent, it shall have
an adequate central community building with the following features:
                  i.   Laundry drying areas and machines;
                  ii.   Laundry washing machines;
                  iii.   Showers; and
                  iv.   Public toilets and lavatories.
               b.   Such buildings shall have central heating and be maintained
in a safe, clean and sanitary condition.
            15.   In parks exceeding 50 lots, an attendant, caretaker or
responsible park employee shall be readily available at all times; and
            16.   A plan for the sheltering or the safe evacuation to a safe
place of shelter of the residents of the park in times of severe weather
conditions shall be developed.
      (2)   Site plan requirements.
         (a)   Legal description and size in acres of the proposed mobile home
court;
         (b)   Location and size of all mobile home sites, dead storage areas,
recreation areas, laundry drying areas, roadways, parking sites and all setback
dimensions (parking spaces, exact mobile home sites and the like);
         (c)   Detailed landscaping plans and specifications;
         (d)   Location and width of sidewalks;
         (e)   Plans for sanitary sewage disposal, surface drainage, water
systems, electrical service and gas service;
         (f)   Location and size of all streets abutting the mobile home park
and all driveways from such streets to the mobile home park;
         (g)   Road construction plans and specifications;
         (h)   Plans for any and all structures;
         (i)   Such other information as required or implied by these mobile
home court standards or requested by public officials;
         (j)   Name and address of developer or developers;
         (k)   Description of method of disposing of garbage and refuse;
         (l)   Detailed description of maintenance procedures and grounds
supervision; and
         (m)   Details as to whether all of the area will be developed at once
or whether it will be developed a portion at a time.
      (3)   Design standards.
         (a)   Site.
            1.   Each mobile home site shall contain at least 4,000 square feet
of land for the exclusive use of the occupant:
               a.   Width: no less than 40 feet; and
               b.   Depth: no less than 100 feet.
            2.   Each mobile home site shall have frontage on an approved
roadway and the corner of each mobile home site shall be marked and each site
shall be numbered.
            3.   The minimum lot area for a mobile home court shall be 48,000
square feet.
         (b)   Setbacks.
            1.   No unit shall be parked closer than five feet to its side lot
lines nor closer than 20 feet to its front lot line, nor closer than ten feet
to its rear lot line.
            2.   No unit, off-street parking space or building shall be located
within 30 feet for the exterior boundary of any mobile home court.
         (c)   Parking.
            1.   Each mobile home site shall have off-street parking space for
two automobiles.
            2.   Each mobile home site shall maintain a hard-surfaced, off-
street parking lot for guests of occupants in the amount of one space for each
five coach sites.
            3.   Access drives off roads to all parking spaces and coach sites
shall be hard surfaced.
         (d)   Utilities.
            1.   All mobile homes shall be connected to a public water and
sanitary sewer system or a private water and sewer system approved by the State
Department of Health.
            2.   All installations for disposal of surface storm water must be
approved by the city.
            3.   All utility connections shall be as approved by the city.
            4.   The source of fuel for cooking, heating or other purposes at
each mobile home site shall be as approved by the city.
            5.   All utilities shall be underground; there shall be no overhead
wires or supporting poles, except those essential for street or other lighting
purposes.
         (e)   Internal roads and streets.
            1.   Roads shall be hard-surfaced as approved by the city.
            2.   All roads shall have a hard-surfaced (mountable, roll type)
curb and gutter.
            3.   All streets shall be developed with a roadbed of not less than
24 feet in width. If parking is permitted on the streets, then the roadbed
shall be at least 36 feet in width.
         (f)   Recreation. All mobile home courts shall have at least 10% of
the land areas developed for recreational use (tennis courts, children’s play
equipment, swimming pool, golf green and the like), developed and maintained at
the owner/operator’s expense.
         (g)   Landscaping.
            1.   Each site shall be properly landscaped with trees, hedges,
grass, fences, windbreaks and the like.
            2.   A compact hedge, redwood fence or landscaped area shall be
installed around each mobile home park and be maintained in first class
condition at all times as approved.
            3.   All areas shall be landscaped in accordance with landscaping
plan approved by the City Council.
         (h)   Lighting.
            1.   Artificial light shall be maintained during all hours of
darkness in all buildings containing public toilets, laundry equipment and the
like.
            2.   The mobile home park grounds shall be lighted as approved by
the city from sunset to sunrise.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses
in an “MH” District:
      (1)   Garages, carports, storage sheds, recreational vehicles and
equipment, home occupations, essential services; and
      (2)   Weather shelter, community center/swimming pools and other
recreational facilities which are operated for the exclusive use by residents
and their guests.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983)
§ 157.028 DENSITY AND INTENSITY REGULATIONS.
See table below.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1061, passed 6-16-1992; Ord. 1083, passed 12-
7-1993; Ord. 1160, passed 4-15-1997; Ord. 1574, passed 2-5-2018; Ord. 1595,
passed 8-20-2019)
   (A)   Residential districts.
                                        Maximum Height
     Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum    (Greater)       Minimum Lot Minimum
Uses Size (sq.   Width       Setback in                 Area per    Useable
     ft.)                    Feet       Front Rear Side Unit        Open Space
                                       Maximum Height
              Minimum  Minimum Minimum (Greater)             Minimum  Minimum
Uses          Lot Size Lot     Setback                       Lot Area Useable
              (sq.     Width   in Feet Front Rear    Side    per Unit Open
              ft.)                                                    Space

Club or lodge
with food,                                           35 ft.
drink,        20,000   100 ft. 30      30    20      or 3
incidental                                           stories
(R-B)
Essential
services,                                                    25 ft.
government,                                                  or 2-1/
public                                 30    30      10(2)   2
utilities (R-                                                stories
1 through R-
B)
Hospitals,                                           35 ft.
clinics (R-B) 20,000   100 ft. 30      30    20      or 3(6)
                                                     stories
Multiple-                                            25 ft.           500 sq.
family (3-             100 ft. 30      30    20      or 2-1/ 4,000    ft. per
4 unit) (R-4)                                        2                unit
                                                     stories
Multiple-                                                             500 sq.
family (over  20,000   100 ft. 30      30    20      3(6)    1,700(5) ft. per
12 units) (R-                                        stories          unit
6)
Multiple-                                            25 ft.           500 sq.
family (to 12 13,000   100 ft. 30      30    20      or 2-1/ 1,700    ft. per
units) (R-5)                                         2                unit
                                                     stories
Nursing
homes, group                                         35 ft.
housing (over 20,000   100 ft. 30      30    20      or 3(6)
16) (R-6 to                                          stories
R-B)
Professional                                         35 ft.
or leased     20,000   100 ft. 30      30    20      or 3(6)
offices (R-B)                                        stories
Recreational,                                Lesser
religious,                                   of 1.5x 35 ft.
institutional                  30      30    height  or 3(6)
(R-1 through                                 or 50   stories
R-B)                                         ft.
Residential                                          25 ft.
facilities                                           or 2-1/
(1-6 served)  9,000    75 ft.  30      30    10(2)   2
(R-1 through                                         stories
R-B)
Residential                                          25 ft.
facilities    7,800    65 ft.  30      30    10(2)   or 2-1/
(1-6 served)                                         2
(R-2)                                                stories
Residential                                          25 ft.
facilities                                           or 2-1/
(7-16 served) 13,000   100 ft. 30      30    20      2
(R-5 through                                         stories
R-B)
Senior                                               35 ft.           20% gross
citizen       20,000   100 ft. 30      30    20      or 3(6) 1,000    lot area
housing (R-B)                                        stories
Single-family                                        25 ft.
attached (R-  5,000    40 ft.  30(3,4) 30    10(2)   or 2-1/ 5,000
3 through R-                                         2
B)                                                   stories
Single-family
converted to  13,000   80 ft.  30      30    10
multi-family
(R-3)
Single-family                                        25 ft.
detached (R-  9,000    75 ft.  30(3,4) 30    10(1,2) or 2-1/ 9,000
1, 3, 4, 5, 6                                        2
and R-B)                                             stories
Single-family                                        25 ft.
detached (R-  7,800    65 ft.  30(3,4) 30    10(1,2) or 2-1/ 7,800
2)                                                   2
                                                     stories
Townhouses                                           25 ft.
(R-3 through  4,000    100 ft. 30      30    20      or 2-1/ 4,000
R-B)                                                 2
                                                     stories
Two-family                                           25 ft.
dwelling (R-  10,000   80 ft.  30(3,4) 30    10(2)   or 2-1/ 5,000
3 through R-                                         2
B)                                                   stories
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) If adjacent to an attached garage only, may be reduced to 5 feet; except
that, setback may be reduced to 3 feet as a conditional use subject to the
requirements and procedures of §
157.099 of this chapter; and, provided that, the following conditions are met:
   1) Reduction in setback will permit the expansion of an existing attached
garage or construction of a new attached garage with a maximum width of 22 ft.
and maximum depth of 30 ft.
   2) Distance between proposed garage addition and a garage on adjacent
property is a minimum of 6 feet and/or 10 feet to living quarters.
   3) Proposed garage is not adjacent to street right-of-way or would extend
into a utility easement.
   4) Proposed garage will not adversely impact neighboring properties as
regards to, but not limited to, drainage, light, visibility, landscaping and
aesthetics.
(2) Side yard abutting a public right-of-way (street) shall be not less than 20
ft. from the right-of-way.
(3) In a block where a lot fronts on a side street next to a lot which has its
side facing the same street, the setback on each lot shall be 20 ft. from the
side street.
(4) Where adjacent structures within the same block have front yard setbacks
different from those required, the front yard minimum setback shall be the
average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one adjacent structure,
the front yard minimum setback shall be the average of the required setback and
the setback of the adjacent structure. In no case shall the minimum front yard
setback exceed 30 ft.
(5) Apartment density bonus: a maximum of 10% reduction in sq. ft. in lot area
per unit for multiple-family dwellings of 10 units or more as required in
division (d) below, based upon the following bonus features and square foot
reduction:
Bonus Feature   Square Foot Reduction Per Unit
a. Type two construction   100 sq. ft.
b. Elevator serving each floor   50 sq. ft.
c. Transit service available within 300 ft. of entrance   50 sq. ft.
d. 2/3 of the required fee-free parking underground or within
the principal structure (not including attached or detached garages)   150 sq.
ft.
e. Indoor recreation and social rooms equal to 25 sq. ft. per unit
or 750 sq. ft. total, whichever is greater   50 sq. ft.
f. Major outdoor recreational facilities such as swimming pools, tennis courts
or similar facilities requiring a substantial investment equaling at minimum 5%
of the construction cost of the principal structure   20 sq. ft.
(6) Structures in excess of 3 stories or 35 feet are permitted as conditional
uses. For each additional story over 3 stories, or for each additional 10 ft.
above 35 ft., front and side yard setback requirements shall be increased 5
feet.
 
   (B)   Business districts.
     Minimum Lot Size Minimum Lot Minimum Setback in Feet(1) Maximum Height
Uses (sq. ft.)        Width       Front Rear Side            (Greater)
                                                                       Minimum         Minimum Setback
                                                                       Lot     Minimum in Feet(1)      Maximum
Uses                                                                   Size    Lot                     Height
                                                                       (sq.    Width   Front Rear Side (Greater)
                                                                       ft.)
Accessory buildings, uses and structures in B-2 and B-3 Districts                                      35 ft. or
(refer to §                                                                                           3 stories
157.040)
Accessory buildings, uses and structures in B-1 District (refer to §                                  25 ft. or
157.040)                                                                                               2 stories
                                                                                                  10   35 ft. or
All other uses, permitted or conditional in the B-2 District           None    100 ft. 30    20   (2)  3 stories
                                                                                                       (3)
                                                                               No            12        75 ft. or
All uses, permitted or conditional in the B-3 District                 None    minimum 0     (5)  0(4) 6 stories
                                                                                                       (3)
All uses, permitted or conditional in the B-1 District                 8,000   75 ft.  30    20   15   25 ft. or
                                                                                                  (2)  2 stories
Motels/hotels                                                          500/
                                                                       unit
                                                                       1,000/                     10   35 ft. or
Multiple-family in B-2 District                                        unit    100 ft. 30    20   (2)  3 stories
                                                                                                       (3)
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) Except in the Central Business District (B-3), no building shall be located closer than 20 ft. from any
street right-of-way.
(2) A side yard that directly abuts a residential district shall be increased 10 additional feet over the
minimum stated.
(3) Structures in excess of 3 stories or 35 feet are permitted as conditional uses. For each additional story
over 3 stories or for each additional 10 ft. above the 35 ft., front and side yard setback requirements shall be
increased 5 ft.
(4) A side yard that directly abuts a residential use or residential district shall be increased 10 additional
feet over the minimums stated above, and shall be screened and landscaped in compliance with §
157.070 of this chapter.
(5) If abutting a residential use or residential district, the rear property line shall be screened and
landscaped in compliance with §
157.070 of this chapter.
 
   (C)   Industrial districts.
 
                                                       Minimum         Minimum Setback
                                                       Lot     Minimum in Feet         Maximum
Uses                                                   Size    Lot                     Height
                                                       (sq.    Width   Front Rear Side (Greater)
                                                       ft.)                            (2)

Accessory buildings, uses and structures (refer to §                                  45 ft. or
157.040)                                                                               3 stories
All uses, permitted or conditional in the I-2 District None    100 ft. 50    50   30   45 ft. or
                                                                                       3 stories
All uses, permitted or conditional in the I-1 District None    100 ft. 50    40   30   45 ft. or
                                                                                       3 stories
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) Except in the Central Business District (B-3), no building shall be located closer than 20
ft. from any street right-of-way.
(2) Structures in excess of 3 stories or 45 ft. are permitted as conditional uses. For each
additional story over 3 stories or for each additional 10 ft. above the 45 ft., front and side
yard setback requirements shall be increased 5 ft., except for public housing for the elderly.
 
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1061, passed 6-16-1992; Ord. 1083, passed 12-
7-1993; Ord. 1160, passed 4-15-1997; Ord. 1574, passed 2-5-2018)
SPECIAL REGULATIONS
§ 157.040 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Residential districts.
      (1)   Location. No accessory building or structure shall be erected or
located in any required yard other than the rear yard, except detached private
garages may be permitted in the side yards; provided that:
         (a)   Such garage shall comply with all other requirements of this
section;
         (b)   The garage shall be at least five feet from side lot lines; and
         (c)   The garage shall not be located more than 20 feet from the
principal structure.
      (2)   Size and density requirements.
         (a)   Maximum density. The total area of all accessory buildings and
structures shall occupy no more than 30% of the rear yard.
         (b)   Maximum number of accessory buildings. No more than two
accessory buildings and no more than one detached private garage shall be
permitted on a single lot, except for multi-family dwellings of four or more
units.
         (c)   Maximum size. No accessory building or buildings shall exceed
1,000 square feet in total gross floor area, except for the following:
            1.   Multi-family dwellings of four or more units;
            2.   An accessory building or buildings may exceed 1,000 square
feet in total gross floor area as a conditional use, subject to the provisions
and procedures of §
157.099 of this chapter and provided the following conditions are met:
               a.   The total gross floor area of all accessory buildings shall
not exceed 1,250 square feet for lots of more than 20,000 square feet but less
than 30,000 square feet in area and 1,500 square feet for lots of 30,000 square
feet or more in area;
               b.   A minimum of 20 feet shall be maintained from side and rear
lot lines for individual buildings with a total gross floor area of 1,000
square feet or more;
               c.   No accessory building shall be used for commercial
purposes; and
               d.   The size, design, construction and location must be such as
to be compatible with the surrounding area.
            3.   The maximum height for an accessory building shall not exceed
15 feet, except detached private garages; provided that:
               a.   A ratio of two and one-half to one (2.5:1) between the
height of the structure and the setback from the side and rear lines shall be
maintained; and
               b.   The maximum height permitted under this section shall be 20
feet.
      (3)   Setback requirements.
         (a)   Setback from lot lines. All accessory buildings or structures
shall be at least three feet from all lot lines or the setback required by
Building Code, whichever is greater, except private garages with vehicular
access doors facing public alleys shall be 20 feet from the alley right-of-way.
         (b)   Setback from buildings.
            1.   Permanent accessory buildings shall be at least three feet
from any other permanent building on the lot; provided, all Building Code
requirements are met.
            2.   Movable accessory buildings or structures can be closer than
three feet from any other building or structure on the lot; provided, all
Building Code requirements are met.
         (c)   Easements. No accessory building or structure shall be located
within a utility easement, except movable accessory buildings or structures
upon approval of the city’s public utilities and issuance of a zoning permit;
provided that:
            1.   The building or structure shall be constructed on skids and
anchored down as required by the Building Department;
            2.   The building or structure shall not exceed 120 square feet in
gross floor area; and
            3.   The building or structure shall be removed by the property
owner if required for the construction, repair or maintenance of a utility.
      (4)   Design requirements. To ensure that the design and appearance of
accessory buildings are appropriate for a residential district, the following
design criteria shall apply for all accessory buildings that are greater than
250 square feet in gross floor area.
         (a)   Roof shall be pitched with eaves.
         (b)   Roof shall be covered with shingles, tile, shakes or metal seam
and batten roofing manufactured with a factory-applied finish, except a
galvanized finish.
         (c)   Exterior walls shall have conventional house siding or siding
that simulates conventional house siding or an exterior that is the same as the
exterior of the principal structure.
      (5)   Use of private garages.
         (a)   No vehicle with a gross capacity of more than 9,000 pounds shall
be stored within a private garage.
         (b)   Private garage space may be rented to non-residents of the
property for private passenger vehicles and/or non-commercial vehicles,
trailers or equipment. Rented private garage space shall be limited to 500
square feet or one- and two-car garages, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial districts.
      (1)   Location. Accessory buildings or structures shall be erected or
located in the rear yard, except accessory buildings or structures may be
erected or located in the side yard; provided, the following conditions are
met:
         (a)   Applicable side yard setbacks are met; and
         (b)   Such accessory building or structure shall be located ten feet
behind the front building line of the principal structure, or maintain a front
yard setback ten feet more than the front yard setback requirement of the
applicable zoning district, whichever provides the greater front yard setback.
      (2)   Size and density requirements. The total gross floor area of all
accessory buildings and structures shall occupy no more than 1,000 square feet
or 50% of the gross floor area of the principal use, whichever is greater,
except accessory buildings and structures may exceed 1,000 square feet or 50%
of the gross floor area of the principal use as a conditional use, subject to
the provisions and procedures of §
157.099 of this chapter; and, provided, the following conditions are met:
         (a)   All applicable setbacks are met;
         (b)   The combined lot coverage of the principal and accessory
buildings or structures shall not exceed 50% of the lot; and
         (c)   The location and appearance of such accessory buildings or
structures shall be compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.
      (3)   Setback requirements.
         (a)   Setback from lot lines. All accessory buildings or structures
shall maintain one-half the side yard setback requirements and one-half the
rear yard setback requirement of the applicable zoning district or the setback
required by Building Code, whichever is greater, except accessory buildings
that are no more than 1,000 square feet in total gross floor area may be three
feet from all lot lines.
         (b)   Setback from buildings.
            1.   Permanent accessory buildings shall be at least three feet
from any other permanent building on the lot; provided, all Building Code
requirements are met.
            2.   Movable accessory buildings or structures can be closer than
three feet from any other building or structure on the lot; provided, all
Building Code requirements are met.
         (c)   Easements. No accessory building or structure shall be located
within a utility easement, except movable accessory buildings or structures
upon approval of the city’s public utilities and issuance of a zoning permit;
provided that:
            1.   The building or structure shall be constructed on skids and
anchored down as required by the Building Department;
            2.   The building or structure shall not exceed 120 square feet in
gross floor area; and
            3.   The building or structure shall be removed by the property
owner if required for the construction, repair or maintenance of a utility.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1116, passed 7-18-1995; Ord. 1145, passed 8-
6-1996; Ord. 1260, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 1304, passed 1-7-2003) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.041 PERMITTED YARD ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The following shall be considered as permitted encroachments on yard
setback requirements; provided that, no portion thereof projects more than four
feet into a required yard setback and shall be three feet from all lot lines:
      (1)   Chimneys and flues;
      (2)   Headers and sills;
      (3)   Pilasters and lintels;
      (4)   Bay windows and window wells;
      (5)   Ornamental features;
      (6)   Steps and stoops; and
      (7)   Air conditioning units or other mechanical appurtenance.
   (B)   The following shall be considered as permitted encroachments on yard
setback requirements; provided that, no portion thereof projects more than four
feet into a required yard setback and that the setback from all lot lines shall
be that which is required by Building Code, but in no case shall be closer than
one foot from all lot lines:
      (1)   Cornices;
      (2)   Eaves; and
      (3)   Gutters.
   (C)   Patios may encroach into the required front yard setback provided that
such patio shall not encroach more than 15 feet into the required front yard
setback or shall be closer than ten feet from the front lot line.
   (D)   Patios may encroach into the required side and rear yard setback;
provided that, such patio be at least three feet from all lot lines.
   (E)   Decks, steps and stoops may encroach into the required front yard
setback; provided that:
      (1)   No portion of the deck, step or stoop shall be closer than ten feet
from the side lot line; and
      (2)   Such deck, step or stoop shall not encroach more than ten feet into
the required front yard setback or shall be closer than 15 feet from the front
lot line.
   (F)   Decks may encroach into the required side and rear yard setback;
provided that:
      (1)   Such deck shall be ten feet from the side lot line;
      (2)   Such deck shall be 20 feet from the rear lot line; and
      (3)   No portion of the step or stoop that is part of the deck shall be
closer than 20 feet from the rear lot line and six feet from the side lot line.
   (G)   Three and four season porches may encroach into the required rear
setback provided that:
      (1)   Such three or four season porch shall be 20 feet from the rear lot
line;
      (2)   Such three or four season porch shall be supported on pier style
footings;
      (3)   Such structure is constructed a minimum of 12 inches above the
ground in which it is located;
      (4)   The area below the structure shall be open air and shall not be
enclosed unless the floor elevation is less than three feet above the ground,
in which case lattice shall be permitted; and
      (5)   Such three or four season porch shall have each wall on the
structure shall contain windows, screens, or other transparent material for
over 50% of the total individual wall area, except the shared wall with the
primary structure. The gable roof area above the wall line shall not be
included in this calculation.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1061, passed 6-16-1992; Ord. 1147, passed 8-
20-1996; Ord. 1160, passed 4-15-1997; Ord. 1518, passed 2-17-2015) Penalty, see
§
157.999
§ 157.042 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS NOT APPLICABLE.
   (A)   The building height limits established in this chapter for districts
shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Belfries;
      (2)   Chimneys or flues;
      (3)   Church spires, not exceeding 20 feet above roof;
      (4)   Cooling towers;
      (5)   Cupolas and domes which do not contain useable space;
      (6)   Elevator penthouses;
      (7)   Flag poles;
      (8)   Monuments;
      (9)   Parapet walls extending not more than three feet above the limiting
height of the building;
      (10)   Water towers;
      (11)   Poles, towers and other structures for essential services; except
that, such structures in excess of 100 feet shall require conditional use
permits as regulated by §
157.099 of this chapter;
      (12)   Necessary mechanical and electrical appurtenances;
      (13)   Television and radio antennas (not to exceed 75 feet in height
above grade); and
      (14)   Wind energy conversion systems.
   (B)   No excluded roof equipment or structural element extending beyond the
limited height of a building may occupy more than 25% of the area of such roof
or exceed ten feet unless otherwise noted.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.043 REFUSE.
   (A)   In all districts, all waste, refuse or garbage shall be kept in an
enclosed building or properly contained in a closed container designed for such
purposes. The owner of vacant land shall be responsible for keeping such land
free of refuse and weeds.
   (B)   Passenger automobiles, station wagons and trucks not currently
licensed by the state or which are, because of mechanical deficiency, incapable
of movement under their own power, parked or stored outside for a period in
excess of 30 days, shall be regulated as provided for in §
93.021 of this code of ordinances. All other materials stored outside in
violation of city ordinances are considered refuse or junk and shall be
disposed of.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.044 OUTSIDE STORAGE.
   (A)   In all residential districts, all personal property shall be stored
within a building or fully screened so as not to be visible from adjoining
properties and public streets, except for the following: laundry drying and
recreational equipment, construction and landscaping materials and equipment
currently (within a period of 12 months) being used on the premises,
agricultural equipment and materials if these are used or intended for use on
the premises, off-street parking or licensed passenger automobiles and pickup
trucks. The exterior storage of wood for use in wood burning stoves,
fireplaces, furnaces and the like shall also be permitted to the extent that
such storage shall be done in an orderly fashion.
   (B)   In non-residential districts, outside storage shall be regulated as
provided for in §§
157.020 through
157.028 and
157.070 through
157.080 of this chapter.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.0445 GARAGE SALES.
   Garage sales shall be limited to a total of ten calendar days of operation
per calendar year at any residential location.
(Ord. 1578, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 157.045 LAND RECLAMATION.
   Under this chapter, LAND RECLAMATION is the reclaiming of land by depositing
of materials so as to elevate the grade. Land reclamation shall be permitted
only by conditional use permit in all districts. Any lot or parcel upon which
400 cubic yards or more of fill is to be deposited shall come under the
controls of land reclamation. The permit shall include as a condition thereof a
finished grade plan which will not adversely affect the adjacent land, and as
conditions thereof shall regulate the type of fill permitted, program for
rodent control, plan for fire control and general maintenance of the site,
controls of vehicular ingress and egress and control of windblown material or
hauling of material to or from the site.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.046 MINING.
   Except for excavation for construction of a building, the extraction of
sand, gravel or other material from the land in the amount of 400 cubic yards
or more and removal thereof from the site without processing shall be defined
as mining. In all districts the conduct of mining shall be permitted only upon
issuance of a conditional use permit. Such permit shall include, as a condition
thereof, a plan for a finished grade which will not adversely affect the
surrounding land or the development of the site on which the mining is being
conducted and the route of trucks moving to and from the site.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.047 SOIL PROCESSING.
   The operation of processing sand, gravel and other material mined from the
land shall be permitted only by conditional use permit. Such conditional use
permit shall include a site plan where the processing is to be done, showing
the location of the plant, disposal of water, route of trucks moving to and
from the site in removing processed material from the site. Such permit shall
be granted for a specified period of time, not to exceed one year. Permit may
be renewed upon application at which time operation will be reviewed and
additional conditions attached if necessary to protect the general welfare.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.048 STUDENT HOUSING.
   Any detached dwelling unit utilized on a rental basis by three or more
single high school or college students shall require a conditional use permit.
All student housing shall comply with all state, city, county or other
regulations affecting the health, safety and convenience of the occupants.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.049 BULK STORAGE (LIQUID, GAS, GRAIN AND THE LIKE).
   Above and below ground storage tanks, bins, elevators and the like shall be
regulated in accordance with applicable city, state and federal regulations,
including the applicable Building Codes, State Fire Code and regulations of the
Pollution Control Agency. All necessary federal, state and local permits and
approvals shall be obtained. The Council may require that all existing above
ground liquid in free state storage tanks having a capacity of 300 gallons or
more be diked, and suitably sealed, to hold a leakage capacity equal to 115% of
tank capacity, and also have State Fire Marshal approval. Any existing storage
tanks either above or below ground that, in the opinion of the Council,
constitutes a hazard to public safety shall be discontinued.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.050 RELOCATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Before any house or other structure is moved onto a vacant lot, a
conditional use permit must be secured. No such structure shall be moved by
other than a licensed and bonded mover, except for accessory buildings less
than 250 square feet, which may be moved by the owner if approved by the City
Building Inspector. Accessory buildings of 500 square feet or less, and less
than 15 feet in height may not require a conditional use permit if, in the
judgment of the Building Inspector, its condition and appearance would be
compatible with the area and intended use. New and sectional dwellings, whether
in whole or in part, may not need a conditional use permit if they comply with
the Building Code or other requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hold public hearing according to the
provisions of §
157.101 of this chapter on each application to move or relocate a structure to
determine its compatibility with the surrounding structures and area of the
proposed site of relocation. The Building Inspector shall report to the
Planning Commission concerning structural soundness of the building;
recommended improvements to both the structure and the site, and restoration of
the original site. The Building Inspector shall also submit for the
Commission’s review and approval a schedule of estimated costs for the above.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall submit to the City Council its
recommendation as to the issuance or denial of the conditional use permit,
together with recommended conditions (if recommendation is for issuance)
including, when applicable, the condition that title to the property and
structure cannot be sold or conveyed until the project has been completed and
approved by the Building Inspector, a date by which the relocation and all
recommended improvements to structure and site and restoration of original site
shall be accomplished; and a signed agreement from the applicant that the
conditions, recommended improvements and completion date are accepted.
   (D)   If the City Council approves the issuance of a conditional use permit,
the applicant shall, before either the conditional use permit or moving permit
is issued, deposit with the City Clerk-Treasurer as a guarantee to the
neighborhood that the recommended improvements will be completed as agreed to
by the applicant, a certified check or cashier’s check made payable to the city
or in cash in an amount equal to 20% of the Building Inspector’s estimate of
all the costs of relocation, improvement to structure, improvement to the
proposed site and restoration of the original site, as prescribed by the
Planning Commission and concurred in by the Council, excepting from those
calculations the charges made by a licensed moving firm. The minimum deposit
shall be $500. When the Building Inspector shall certify that the project has
been completed, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall return to the applicant all the
monies remaining in the deposit.
   (E)   (1)   Unless the City Council grants an extension of time for
completion of the project, 10% of the original amount deposited shall be
forfeited for each day that the project remains incomplete past the agreed upon
completion date. If the entire amount of the guarantee deposit becomes
forfeited, the City Council shall then direct that the Building Inspector hire
a contractor to complete the project as promised.
      (2)   All monies forfeited shall first be applied to the costs incurred
by the city in the completion. Costs incurred beyond the amount of surety,
including but not limited to, administrative and personnel costs of the city,
materials cost and contractor charges and interest and service charges, shall
be expended from the General Fund of the city and made a special assessment
against the property and certified to the County Auditor for collection in one
installment together with interest and costs according to law.
   (F)   Before the Building Inspector shall issue a permit to move a structure
over any public right-of-way, the applicant shall pay the required fee and
complete the application for building moving permit and moving approval form,
all agreeable to the provisions of §§
150.085 through
150.089 of this code of ordinances.
   (G)   These requirements shall not apply to construction sheds or temporary
construction offices located on the lot for 18 months or less during a
construction project.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.051 GENERAL FENCING REQUIREMENTS.
   FENCES are herein defined as an above-grade artificially constructed barrier
of any material or combination of materials erected to enclose or screen areas
of land and may be erected, placed or maintained along or adjacent to a lot
line, in accordance with the requirements as identified below.
   (A)   Permits.
      (1)   Fences do not require zoning permits unless located within a
utility easement. Fences placed within utility easements are subject to removal
if required for the installation or maintenance of a utility.
      (2)   Where permitted, fences in excess of six feet in height as measured
from finished grade may require a building permit.
   (B)   Maintenance and materials.
      (1)   Fences shall be of durable, weather-treated materials and must be
maintained in a respectable condition.
      (2)   Barbed wire or electric fences shall not be permitted, used or
constructed, except in industrial districts, as hereinafter provided, or areas
where the keeping of livestock is permitted.
   (C)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Fences may be constructed up to the lot line; provided that, no
portion of the fence protrudes over the lot line.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the property owner to locate lot lines
before construction of any fence and ensure that the fence is constructed in
the proper location.
   (D)   Height requirements.
      (1)   Residential districts.
         (a)   Front yard. No fence shall exceed three feet in height above
finished grade; except that, open fencing less than 50% opaque may be increased
to four feet.
         (b)   Rear yard and side yards not including any portion of the front
yard. No fence shall exceed seven feet in height.
      (2)   Commercial districts.
         (a)   No fence shall exceed seven feet in height above finished grade.
         (b)   Fences erected along a property line in common with a
residential district shall be subject to the provisions herein described for
residential districts.
      (3)   Industrial districts.
         (a)   No fence shall exceed eight feet in height above finished grade.
         (b)   Fences may utilize barbed wire as a security measure, provided
the barbed wire commences at a point at least seven feet above finished grade
and does not project over lot lines.
         (c)   Fences erected along a property line in common with a
residential district shall be subject to the provisions herein described for
residential districts.
   (E)   Maintaining traffic visibility at corner lots. Except in the Central
Business District, no fence shall be permitted within any yard area on a corner
lot which will impede vision above a height of two and one-half feet as
measured above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets within 20 feet
of the street intersecting right-of-way lines.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1483, passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.052 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   Ownership. In order that the purposes of this chapter section may
be achieved, the property shall be in single ownership or under the management
and supervisory lease or ownership control as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Applicability. This section establishes provisions for the granting
of conditional use permits for planned unit developments in zoning districts
where permitted as conditional uses and which are in compliance with the
permitted and conditional uses allowed in that zoning district. Unless
specifically addressed in this section, the rules, provisions and regulations
of the zoning district and elsewhere in this chapter shall apply to the planned
unit development.
   (B)   Procedures and requirements for establishing a planned unit
development.
      (1)   An application for a conditional use permit shall be filed and
processed based upon procedures established in §
157.099 of this chapter. Any zone changes required in conjunction with the PUD
request must also be filed according to the provisions of §
157.098 of this chapter.
      (2)   Application for a conditional use permit shall be accompanied by a
concept plan to include written statements and any necessary sketch plans drawn
to scale. The concept plan shall include the following:
         (a)   Identification of PUD boundaries;
         (b)   Proposed land uses;
         (c)   Densities (approximate square footage per unit or, when
appropriate, floor area ratios);
         (d)   Generalized site layout;
         (e)   Circulation patterns (vehicular and pedestrian);
         (f)   Open space areas, proposed parks or recreation facilities;
         (g)   Generalized land use of the surrounding area;
         (h)   Building type(s); and
         (i)   Tentative development schedule and/or phasing of development.
      (3)   Public hearing on request for conditional use permit shall be held
as provided for by ordinance. Recommendation and findings of the Planning
Commission shall be submitted for action upon by the City Council. Affirmative
action by the City Council may be a tentative approval.
      (4)   Tentative approval of the conditional use permit shall be subject
to the condition that a preliminary development plan, as outlined in division
(B)(8) below, be submitted for review and action upon by the City Council upon
recommendation of the Planning Commission within three months of the tentative
approval of the concept plan.
         (a)   For the purposes of this division (B)(4), TENTATIVE APPROVAL
shall mean that the Planning Commission and the City Council have approved in
concept the development of the proposed site as a PUD and that based upon the
proposed land uses, densities, site layout and other features of the
development as outlined in the concept plan, the proposed PUD development is an
appropriate and proper use of that property. Tentative approval does not grant
the applicant any right to undertake construction of the development.
         (b)   If the preliminary development plan is not submitted within
three months, the conditional use permit will lapse unless an extension of time
is requested by the applicant and granted by the City Council upon
recommendation of the Planning Commission.
      (5)   At the time of submission of the preliminary development plan, the
application shall make application for subdivision, subject to the
requirements, provisions and procedures of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
      (6)   If the PUD is to be completed in phases as provided for and
approved in the concept plan, application may submit a preliminary development
plan and make application for subdivision for the initial phase. Submission of
preliminary development plans and application for subdivision for subsequent
phases shall be based on the tentative development schedule of the concept
plan.
      (7)   The preliminary development plan shall be in conformance with the
concept plan, and will be based directly on that plan and any conditions or
revisions as required by City Council as part of the tentative approval of the
concept plan. Any modification of the PUD proposal from the concept plan must
be documented as to the changes requested, impact on the overall plan and
reasons for requesting modifications. Any modification of the proposal must be
approved by City Council upon recommendation of the Planning Commission.
      (8)   The preliminary development plan is to include the following.
         (a)   General area-wide development plan (general outline of the site
and surrounding area).
            1.   Uses;
            2.   Zoning;
            3.   Streets;
            4.   Grade or topography; and
            5.   Densities.
         (b)   Specific site plan.
            1.   The entire outline, overall dimensions and area of the tract
described in the application;
            2.   The use, zoning and ownership of all adjacent properties
within 100 feet of the tract boundaries including the location of all
structures thereon and the right-of-way width of all adjacent public roadways;
            3.   The existing and proposed topography of the tract with contour
intervals not greater than two feet;
            4.   The location, general exterior dimensions and approximate
gross floor areas of all proposed buildings;
            5.   The type of each use proposed to occupy each building and the
approximate amount of building floor area devoted to each separate use;
            6.   The proposed location, arrangement and number of automobile
parking stalls;
            7.   The proposed location, arrangement and general dimensions of
all truck loading facilities;
            8.   The location and dimensions of all vehicular entrances, exits
and driveways and their relationship to all existing or proposed public
streets;
            9.   The location and dimensions of all walls, fences and plantings
designed to screen the proposed district from adjacent uses;
            10.   The general drainage system;
            11.   The types of all ground covers;
            12.   Standards for exterior signs, architectural style and other
variables which will be controlled in the design of buildings in the
development site;
            13.   Proposed signage;
            14.   A site plan for traffic engineering analysis, showing
location and design of the buildings, driveways, driveway intersections and
streets, parking areas, loading areas, maneuvering areas and sidewalks;
            15.   A site grading plan and planting plan, including screen walls
and fences, for analysis of adequacy of surface drainage, erosion control,
visual screening and landscaping, including sodding; and
            16.   Proposed covenants, deed restrictions, reservations,
controls, declarations and homeowner’s association by-laws.
         (c)   Development schedule. The applicant shall submit a proposed
schedule of construction. If the construction of the proposed planned unit
development is to be in stages, then the components contained in each stage
must be clearly delineated. The development schedule shall indicate the
starting date and the completion date of the complete development plan.
      (9)   Public hearing will be reopened on the conditional use permit for
PUD for the purpose of reviewing the preliminary development plan.
Recommendations and findings of the hearing shall be submitted for action upon
the conditional use permit by the City Council. When applicable, public hearing
on the preliminary plan shall be held at the same meeting.
      (10)   Upon approval of the conditional use permit, with or without
further conditions or restrictions, the preliminary development plan, together
with such covenants, deed restrictions, reservations, controls or variances as
are a part thereof, shall become a part of the official file of the city.
      (11)   As provided for and regulated in
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances, approval of the final plat must be secured
by the applicant.
      (12)   Upon approval of the final plat, the applicant shall then be
entitled to make application for necessary building permits.
   (C)   Review and evaluation criteria. The evaluation of the proposed plan
and development shall include, but not be limited to, the following criteria.
      (1)   Adequate property control is necessary to protect the individual
owner’s rights and property values. Responsibility for maintenance and upkeep
of land and structures held in common ownership is provided for in a
declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions or equivalent document.
      (2)   The interior circulation plan plus access from and onto public
right-of-way do not create congestion or dangers and is adequate for the safety
of the project residents and the general public.
      (3)   A sufficient amount of usable open space is provided.
      (4)   The arrangement of buildings, structures and accessory uses does
not reasonably disturb the privacy or property values of the surrounding
residential uses.
      (5)   The architectural design of the project is compatible with the
surrounding area.
      (6)   The drainage and utility plans are submitted to the City Engineer
and the final drainage and utility plans shall be subject to his approval.
      (7)   The development schedule ensures a logical development of the site
which will protect the public interest and conserve land.
      (8)   Dwelling unit and accessory use requirements are in compliance with
the district provisions in which the development is planned.
   (D)   General implementation.
      (1)   Compliance with the final development plan and changes.
         (a)   The development of the planned unit development shall be in
compliance with the final development plan.
         (b)   Differences between the actual development and proposed
development shown in the final development plan not permitted under the
foregoing provisions of this section will be permitted only if the final
development plan is changed with the approval of the City Council. Proposed
changes shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission and recommendations
forwarded to the City Council.
      (2)   Building permits. Applications for building permits shall be
reviewed and approved by the Building Inspector after considering conditions
imposed by the City Council. Such applications shall be examined by determine
if they are in compliance with this chapter and the final development plan.
   (E)   General development requirements.
      (1)   General. When applicable, the declaration of covenants, conditions
and restrictions or equivalent document shall provide that in the event the
association or corporation fails to maintain properties in accordance with the
applicable rules and regulations of the city or fails to pay taxes or
assessments on properties as they become due and in the event the said city
incurs any expenses in enforcing its rules and regulations, which said expenses
are not immediately reimbursed by the association or corporation, then the city
shall have the right to assess each property its pro rata share of said
expenses. Such assessments, together with interest thereon and costs of
collection, shall be a lien on each property against which such assessment is
made.
      (2)   Public services. The proposed project shall be served by the city
water and sewer system and fire hydrants shall be installed at such locations
as necessary to provide fire protection.
      (3)   Utility connections.
         (a)   Water connections. Where more than one property is served from
the same service line, a shut-off valve must be located in such a way that each
unit’s service may be shut off by the city, in addition to the normally
supplied shut-off at the street.
         (b)   Sewer connections. Where more than one unit is served by a
sanitary sewer lateral which exceeds 300 feet in length, provisions must be
made for manhole to allow adequate cleaning and maintenance of the lateral. All
maintenance and cleaning shall be the responsibility of the property owner’s
association or owner.
      (4)   Building height. Height limitations shall be the same as imposed in
the respective districts.
      (5)   Roadways.
         (a)   Private roadways within the project shall have an improved
surface of 20 feet or more in width and shall be so designed as to permit the
city fire trucks to provide protection to each building.
         (b)   No portion of the required 20-foot road system may be used in
calculating required off-street parking space or be used for parking.
   (F)   Planned unit development - residential.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the intent of this section of this chapter to
establish provisions for the granting of a conditional use permit for planned
unit development - residential projects which are in compliance with the
permitted and conditional uses allowed in a specific district including
dwellings, offices and institutional uses of one or more buildings in relation
to an overall design, and integrated physical plan and in accordance with the
provisions and procedures as prescribed in this chapter.
      (2)   Minimum project size. The tract of land for which a planned unit
development-residential is proposed and permit requested shall not have less
than three acres of land.
      (3)   Required frontage. The tract of land for which a project is
proposed and permit requested shall not have less than 200 feet of frontage on
the public right-of-way.
      (4)   Yards.
         (a)   The front and side yard restrictions at the periphery of the
planned unit development site at a minimum shall be the same as imposed in the
respective districts.
         (b)   No building shall be nearer than its building height to the rear
or side property line when such line abuts an “R-1” or “R-2” use district.
         (c)   No building shall be located less than 15 feet from the back of
the curb line along those roadways which are part of the private roadway
pattern.
         (d)   No principal building within the project shall be nearer to
another building than one-half the sum of the building heights of the two
buildings.
      (5)   Density bonus. As a consequence of a planned unit development’s
planned and integrated character, the number of dwelling units allowed within
the respective zoning district may be increased by 10%. The building parking
and similar requirements for these extra units shall be observed in compliance
with this chapter.
      (6)   Minor PUDs. The minimum requirements of division (F)(2) and (F)(3)
above may be reduced, if, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, the
City Council determines that the public health, safety and general welfare can
be better served by a smaller development that demonstrates integrated planning
and architecture, joint or common use of parking, conservation of land and open
space through clustering of buildings and activities, and provides a harmonious
selection and efficient distribution of uses. The Zoning Administrator may
waive or reduce procedures and requirements for such minor residential planned
unit developments of less than three acres and/or 200 feet of frontage on the
public right-of-way.
      (7)   Additional requirements - townhouses, multiple-family structures.
         (a)   No single townhouse structure shall contain more than eight
dwelling units.
         (b)   Minimum unit lot frontage for townhouses shall be not less than
20 feet.
         (c)   Dwelling unit and accessory use requirements must comply with
the district provisions in which the development is planned.
         (d)   No building within the project shall be nearer to another
building than one-half the sum of the building heights of the two buildings.
         (e)   Townhouses, cooperatives and condominiums will be subdivided on
an individual unit basis according to the provisions of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
   (G)   Planned unit development - commercial and industrial.
      (1)   Purpose. The intent of this section of this chapter is to establish
provisions for the granting of a conditional use permit to erect planned unit
development - commercial and industrial projects which are in compliance with
the permitted and conditional uses allowed in a specific district in one or
more buildings in relation to an overall design, an integrated physical plan
and in accordance with provisions and procedures in this chapter.
      (2)   Minimum project size. The tract of land for which a planned unit
development - commercial or industrial project is proposed and permit is
requested shall contain not less than five acres for commercial and industrial
projects.
      (3)   Frontage. The tract of land for which a project is proposed and a
permit requested shall not have less than 200 feet of frontage on a public
right-of-way.
      (4)   Yard. No building shall be nearer than 50 feet to the side or rear
property line when such line abuts an “R-1”, “R-2”, “R-3” or “R-4” use
district.
      (5)   Minor PUDs. The minimum requirements of divisions (G)(2) and (G)(3)
above may be reduced, if, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, the
City Council determines that the public health, safety and general welfare can
be better served by a smaller development that demonstrates integrated planning
and architecture, joint or common use of parking, conservation of land and open
space through clustering of buildings and activities and provides a harmonious
selection and efficient distribution of uses. The Zoning Administrator may
waive or reduce procedures and requirements for such minor commercial and
industrial planned unit developments of less than five acres and/or 200 feet of
frontage on the public right-of-way.
   (H)   Planned unit development - manufactured housing.
      (1)   General. Any planned unit development for manufactured housing, as
defined by §
157.002 of this chapter, must be developed in conformance with the rules,
regulations and procedures or this section, with additional regulation as
provided below and subject to all other applicable provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Minimum project size. The tract of land on which a planned unit
development - manufactured housing is proposed and permit requested shall
contain not less than five acres of land.
      (3)   Required frontage. The tract of land for which a project is
proposed and permit requested shall not have less than 200 feet of frontage on
the public right-of-way.
      (4)   Development standards. By definition, a PUD emphasizes a regulatory
process rather than regulations; however, certain minimal standards must be
met.
         (a)   Density. Six thousand square feet lot area per dwelling unit
(the sum of all non-public land within a development, including all land in
common ownership through the homeowner’s association and land held directly by
one individual landowners divided by the number of dwelling units).
         (b)   Building setbacks and distance between structures.
            1.   A 30-foot setback shall be maintained around the perimeter of
a PUD.
            2.   The minimum distance between principal and accessory
structures shall be six feet.
            3.   The minimum distance between principal structures shall be
one-half the sum of the buildings’ heights.
            4.   The minimum distance between accessory structures where at
least one structure is under private ownership shall be six feet.
            5.   There will be no minimum setback between accessory structures
that are in common or limited common ownership.
            6.   A minimum setback of 30 feet shall be maintained off all
roadways and public right-of-way.
         (c)   Height. No structure shall exceed two and one-half stories or 25
feet, whichever is greater.
         (d)   Frost footings. All manufactured housing shall be constructed on
frost footings in compliance with the State Building Code.
         (e)   Landscaping and screening.
            1.   Each lot shall be properly landscaped with at least one tree,
hedges, grass, fences, windbreaks and the like.
            2.   Commonly held open space shall be landscaped in accordance
with a landscaping plan approved by the Planning Commission.
            3.   Boundaries of the development not abutting a public right-of-
way shall be screened in compliance with §
157.020 of this chapter.
         (f)   Parking.
            1.   Two off-street parking spaces per dwelling unit shall be
provided for exclusive use by that unit.
            2.   The Planning Commission may require a hard-surfaced off-street
parking lot for guests of occupants in the amount not to exceed one space per
two units. Such space must be located as to be readily accessible and in close
proximity to the units it is serving. Determination of the need for guest
parking shall be based on project design; how conducive proposed streets are in
accommodating temporary off-street parking; and design of the off-street
parking required for each unit.
            3.   The Planning Commission may require additional off-street
parking for commonly owned facilities such as community centers, weather
shelters, recreation facilities and the like. Determination of the need for as
well as the number of spaces required will be based on the use of the structure
or facility and its location within the PUD.
            4.   Development plans must indicate garage sites for all dwelling
units whether or not garages will be part of the initial development. Such
sites may be entirely situated on private lots or may be provided as a limited
common facility.
         (g)   Weather shelter. When required by state law, a weather shelter
in conformance with state law, shall be built and held in common ownership.
Such shelter shall be of a size to temporarily accommodate a number of persons
totaling no less than three persons per proposed dwelling unit.
      (5)   Additional requirements.
         (a)   In addition to the requirements of division (E)(1) above,
regarding property control, the Planning Commission will review declarations to
ensure that mechanisms for adequate control and maintenance of the development
will be established and that the homeowner’s association will be a responsible
agent in administering and enforcing the declaration and covenants and deed
restrictions included. Specific items to be addressed in the declaration shall
include, but not be limited to:
            1.   Control of physical appearance; control and upkeep of both the
individual units and lots and all common and limited common properties to
include steps, additions to dwelling units, maintenance of grounds and commonly
held facilities and the like;
            2.   Accessory buildings and uses;
            3.   Declarations must specify that all units must be owner-
occupied; provisions for the temporary leasing of units with approval of the
homeowner’s association may be included in the declaration;
            4.   Must specify association’s role regarding maintenance, design
review, enforcement and the like; and
            5.   Type(s) of unit(s) allowed in development.
         (b)   The Planning Commission will review the declaration and any
covenants and deed restrictions included as to their adequacy in ensuring that
a high quality living environment will be maintained.
      (6)   Minor PUDs. The minimum requirements of divisions (H)(2) and (H)(3)
above may be reduced, if, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, the
City Council determines that the public health, safety and general welfare can
be better served by a smaller development that demonstrates integrated planning
and architecture, joint or common use of parking, conservation of land and open
space through clustering of buildings and activities, and provides a harmonious
selection and efficient distribution of uses. The Zoning Administrator may
waive or reduce procedures and requirements for such minor manufactured housing
planned unit developments of less than five acres and/or 200 feet of frontage
on the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1061, passed 6-16-1992; Ord. 1160, passed 4-
15-1997)
§ 157.053 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Site plan drawing necessary. All applications for a building or an
occupancy permit in all zoning districts shall be accompanied by a site plan
drawn to scale and dimensioned indicating the location of off-street parking
and loading spaces in compliance with the requirements set forth in this
section. The Zoning Administrator shall review proposed parking plans for
compliance with ordinance requirements.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Floor area. The term “floor area” for the purpose of calculating
the number of off-street parking spaces required shall be determined on the
basis of the exterior floor area dimensions of the building, structure or use
times the number of floors, minus 10%.
      (2)   Reduction of existing off-street parking space or lot area. Off-
street parking spaces and loading spaces or lot area existing upon the
effective date of this chapter shall not be reduced in number or size unless
said number or size exceeds the requirements set forth herein for a similar new
use.
      (3)   Non-conforming structures. Should a non-conforming structure or use
be damaged or destroyed by fire, it may be re-established if elsewhere
permitted in these zoning regulations; except that, in doing so, all off-street
parking or loading space shall meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Change of use or occupancy of land. No change of use or occupancy
of land already dedicated to a parking area, parking spaces or loading spaces
shall be made, nor shall any sale of land, division or subdivision of land be
made which reduces area necessary for parking, parking stalls or parking
requirements below the minimum prescribed by these zoning regulations.
      (5)   Change of use or occupancy of buildings. No change of use or
occupancy of any building or buildings including additions thereto requiring
more parking area shall be permitted until there is furnished such additional
parking spaces as required by these zoning regulations.
      (6)   Garage requirement. Every single-family dwelling unit hereafter
erected shall be so located on the lot so that at least a two-car garage,
either attached or detached can be located on said lot.
      (7)   Accessory residential use. Off-street parking facilities accessory
to residential use shall be utilized solely for the parking of licensed and
operable passenger automobiles; no more than one truck not to exceed gross
capacity of 9,000 pounds; and recreational vehicles and equipment. Under no
circumstances shall required parking facilities accessory to residential
structures be used for the storage of commercial vehicles or equipment.
      (8)   Use of required parking area. Required accessory off-street parking
spaces in any district shall not be utilized for open storage, sale or rental
of goods, storage of inoperable vehicles as regulated by §
157.044 of this chapter, and/or storage of snow; except that, required parking
areas may be used for certain outdoor sales, promotions, recycling units and
the like if such uses are incidental to the principal use, infrequently held,
last for no more than four days, and do not interfere with traffic flow. In all
residential zoning districts non-profit organizations may engage in the outdoor
sale of Christmas trees in said parking area, provided that such sales do not
exceed 45 days, including time necessary to return sales area to normal
conditions, and that a permit authorizing such sales is obtained from the
Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Calculating space.
      (1)   When determining the number of off-street parking spaces results in
a fraction, each fraction of one-half or more shall constitute another space.
      (2)   In stadiums, sports arenas, churches and other places of public
assembly in which patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews or other similar
seating facilities, each 22 inches of such seating facilities shall be counted
as one seat for the purpose of determining requirements.
      (3)   Should a structure contain two or more types of use, each use shall
be calculated separately for determining the total off-street parking spaces
required.
   (D)   Design standards.
      (1)   Parking space size. Each parking space shall be not less than nine
feet wide and 20 feet in length exclusive of access aisles, and each space
shall be served adequately by access aisles. Parallel parking spaces shall not
be less than 22 feet in length.
      (2)   Within structures. The off-street parking requirements may be
furnished by providing a space so designed within the principal building or one
structure attached thereto; however, unless provisions are made, no building
permit shall be issued to convert said parking structure into a dwelling unit
or living area or other activity until other adequate provisions are made to
comply with the required off-street parking provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Circulation. Except in the case of single-, two-family and
townhouse dwellings, parking areas shall be designed so that circulation
between parking bays or aisles occurs within the designated parking lot and
does not depend upon a public street or alley. Except in the case of single-,
two-family and townhouse dwellings, parking area design which requires backing
into the public street is prohibited.
      (4)   Compliance. Except in the case of single-family, two-family and
townhouse dwellings, parking areas and their aisles shall be developed in
compliance with the following standards:
 
Angles (Degrees) Wall to Wall Minimum (2 rows) Minimum Aisle Width
30               45.6 ft.                      11 ft.
45               52.5 ft.                      13 ft.
60               60.0 ft.                      18 ft.
90               62.0 ft.                      24 ft.
 
      (5)   Grade elevation. The grade elevation of any parking area shall not
exceed 5% without approval of the City Engineer.
      (6)   Accesses. Except for single- and two-family dwellings and
apartments of less than 12 units, all driveway accesses shall be approved by
the City Engineer and City Planner but in no instances shall driveway accesses
be located less than 40 feet from line intersection of two or more street
rights-of-way. Driveways serving single- and two-family residences, townhouses
and apartments of less than 12 units shall be no less than 30 feet. This
distance shall be measured from the intersection of lot lines.
      (7)   Access width. No driveway access shall exceed 24 feet in width in
“R-1”, “R-2”, “R-3”, “MH”, “R-4”, “R-5”, “R-6”, “R-B” and “B-1” Districts;
except that, single-family driveway accesses leading directly to three stall or
larger garages on lots with widths 100 feet or greater are permitted driveway
access widths up to 32 feet upon review and approval of City Engineer and City
Planner. No driveway access shall exceed 36 feet in width in “B-2”, “B-3”, “I-
P”, “I-1” and “I-2” Districts.
      (8)   Side lot line. Driveways shall be a minimum one foot from the side
lot line in residential districts, and three feet from the side yard lot line
in business and industrial districts.
      (9)   Driveway access. All property shall be permitted at least one
driveway access. Multiple driveway accesses may be permitted on lots with
street frontage in excess of 100 feet in width upon approval of the City
Engineer.
      (10)   Length. Driveway accesses on a public street, except for two-
family and townhouse dwellings, shall not be less than 40 feet from one another
when located on the same property.
      (11)   Surfacing. All areas intended to be utilized for parking space and
driveways shall be surfaced with materials suitable to control dust and
drainage. Except in the case of single-family and two-family dwellings,
driveways and parking areas which have access onto a concrete or asphaltic
surfaced street or public right-of-way shall be surfaced with asphalt or
concrete. Plans for surfacing and drainage of driveways and stalls for five or
more vehicles shall be submitted to the City Engineer for his or her review and
the final drainage plan shall be subject to his or her written approval.
      (12)   Striping. In parking areas exceeding 12 spaces, stalls shall be
marked with contrasting paint lines not less than four inches wide.
      (13)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking
area shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining property,
abutting residential uses and public rights-of-way and be in compliance with §
157.073 of this chapter.
      (14)   Signs. No sign shall be so located as to restrict the sign lines
and orderly operation and traffic movement within any parking lot. All signing
must conform to
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
      (15)   Curbing. Except for single- and two-family dwellings and
townhouses, all off-street parking within ten feet of the lot line shall have a
continuous, permanent curb barrier constructed of concrete or asphalt around
the entire parking area except that where parking area abuts alley, vehicles
are parked parallel to alley and access to alley need not be restricted,
required parking setbacks may be indicated by striping. Individual wheelstops
butted together and spiked down shall not constitute permitted curbing under
this provision. Said curbing shall not be closer than five feet from any lot
line; except that, in the B-3 (CBD) Zoning District, said curbing shall not be
closer than three feet from any lot line.
      (16)   Required screening. All open, non-residential off-street parking
areas of five or more spaces shall be screened and landscaped from abutting or
surrounding residential districts in compliance with §
157.070 of this chapter.
      (17)   Landscaping.
         (a)   All parking setback areas with a width of less than five feet
shall consist of grass, plantings, decorative rock, bark chips, asphalt or
concrete.
         (b)   All parking setback areas with a width of five feet or more and
abutting public right-of-way shall have one tree planted for every 40 lineal
feet of setback area in addition to grass, plantings, decorative rock or bark
chips.
            1.   The minimum spacing between trees shall be 20 feet.
            2.   Tree planting requirements may be satisfied by planting trees
in the boulevard upon submission of a plan and approval by the Shade Tree
Commission.
            3.   Alternate landscaping including shrubs may be substituted for
tree planting requirements upon submission of a plan and approval by the
Planning Commission.
         (c)   For commercial off-street parking areas of 200 spaces or more, a
minimum of ten square feet of interior landscaped islands is required for each
space.
            1.   Each interior landscaped island shall have a minimum of one
tree in addition to grass, plantings, decorative rock or bark chips.
            2.   The minimum dimensions of a landscaped interior island shall
be five feet in width by five feet in length.
            3.   Such islands shall be disbursed and placed to assist traffic
flow within the parking area.
         (d)   It is the responsibility of the property owner and/or tenant to
ensure that landscaping and trees are maintained in good condition as to
present a healthy, neat and orderly appearance.
            1.   Trees planted under this chapter must be cultivated nursery
stock with straight trunks not less than six feet high, with a minimum one-inch
caliper.
            2.   Trees and landscaping shall be designed and placed to prevent
damage by vehicles.
            3.   Trees and landscaping shall be replaced if damaged or removed.
   (E)   Maintenance. It shall be the responsibility of the lessee and/or owner
of the principal use, uses or building to maintain in a neat and adequate
manner, the parking space, accessways, striping, landscaping and required
fences.
   (F)   Location. All accessory off-street parking facilities required by this
chapter shall be located and restricted as follows.
      (1)   Required accessory off-street parking shall be on the same lot
under the same ownership as the principal use being served, except as provided
for in divisions (H) and (I) below.
      (2)   Except for single-, two-family and townhouse dwellings, head-in
parking, directly off of adjacent to the public street, with each stall having
its own direct access to the public street, shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Except for single- and two-family housing and townhouses, required
accessory off-street parking shall not be provided in front yards or in side
yards abutting street right-of-way in “R-1”, “R-2”, R-3”, “R-4” and “R-5”
Districts.
      (4)   In the case of single-family, two-family and townhouse dwellings,
parking shall be prohibited in any portion of the front yard, except designated
driveways leading directly into a garage or one open, surfaced space located on
the side of a driveway, away from the principal use.
   (G)   Number of spaces required. The following minimum number of off-street
parking spaces shall be provided and maintained by ownership, easement and/or
lease for and during the life of the respective uses noted shall be determined
by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   Single-family, two-family and townhouse units: two spaces per
unit;
         (b)   Multiple-family dwelling: studio and one bedroom require one
stall per unit and two bedroom and greater require a minimum of two stalls per
unit; and
         (c)   Elderly (senior citizen) housing: reservation of area equal to
one parking space per unit. Initial development is, however, required of only
one-half space per unit and said number of spaces can continue until such time
as the City Council considers a need for additional parking spaces has been
demonstrated.
      (2)   Institutional and cultural.
         (a)   Church, theater, auditorium: at least one parking space for each
four seats based on the design capacity of the main assembly hall. Facilities
as may be provided in conjunction with such buildings or uses shall be subject
to additional requirements which are imposed by this chapter;
         (b)   School elementary and junior high: at least one parking space
for each classroom plus one additional space for each 50-student capacity;
         (c)   School, high school through college and private and day or
church schools: at least one parking space for each seven students based on
design capacity, plus one for each three classrooms;
         (d)   Boarding house, fraternity house, sorority house: at least two
parking spaces for each three persons for whom accommodations are provided for
sleeping;
         (e)   Community centers, physical culture studios, libraries, post
office, private clubs, lodges, museums, art galleries: ten spaces, plus one for
each 150 square feet in excess of 2,000 square feet of floor area in the
principal structure;
         (f)   Baseball fields, stadiums: at least one parking space for each
eight seats of design capacity;
         (g)   Public parks, playgrounds and play field: at least five parking
spaces for each acre of park over one acre; two parking spaces per acre for
playgrounds and ten spaces for each acre of play field. When a public
recreation site has more than one use designation, the areas must be divided
for determining the required parking spaces;
         (h)   Hospitals: two spaces per each bed;
         (i)   Sanitariums, convalescent home, rest home, nursing home or day
nurseries: four spaces, plus one for each three beds for which accommodations
are offered; and
         (j)   Adult day-care: two spaces for every five program participants.
      (3)   Business and commercial.
         (a)   Motels, motor hotels, hotels: one space per each rental unit,
plus one space for each ten units and one space for each employee on any shift;
         (b)   Drive-in establishment and convenience food:
            1.   Drive-in only: at least one parking space for each 15 square
feet of gross floor area, but not less than 15 spaces; and
            2.   Convenience food establishment with indoor seating: parking
shall be provided at a rate of 30% of the buildings designated occupant load.
         (c)   Restaurants, cafés, private clubs serving food and/or drinks,
bars, taverns, nightclubs: parking shall be provided at a rate of 30% of the
buildings designated occupant load;
         (d)   Retail store and service establishment: at least one off-street
parking space for each 300 square feet of floor area;
         (e)   Retail sales and service businesses with 50% or more of gross
floor area devoted to storage, warehouses and/or industry: at least eight
spaces or one space for each 200 square feet devoted to public sales or
service, plus one space for each 500 square feet of storage area; or at least
eight spaces or one space for each employee on the maximum shift, whichever is
appropriate;
         (f)   Bowling alley: at least five parking spaces for each alley, plus
additional spaces as may be required herein for related uses contained within
the principal structure;
         (g)   Skating rink, dance hall or public auction house: 20 off-street
parking spaces, plus one additional off-street parking space for each 200
square feet of floor space over 2,000 square feet;
         (h)   Golf driving range, miniature golf, archery range: ten off-
street parking spaces, plus one for each 1,000 square feet of floor area;
         (i)   Motor fuel station: at least four off-street parking spaces,
plus two off-street parking spaces for each service stall. Those facilities
designed for sale of other items than strictly automotive products, parts or
service shall be required to provide additional parking in compliance with
other applicable sections of this chapter;
         (j)   Fuel pumps associated with other use: two spaces in addition to
those required by other use;
         (k)   Auto repair: eight off-street parking spaces, plus one
additional space for each 800 square feet of floor area over 1,000 square feet;
         (l)   Car wash (in addition to required magazining or stacking space):
            1.   Automatic drive through, serviced: a minimum of ten spaces or
one space for each employee on the maximum shift, whichever is greater;
            2.   Self-service: a minimum of two spaces; and
            3.   Motor fuel station car wash: zero in addition to that required
for the station.
         (m)   Motor bus terminal, taxi terminal: see “auto repair”;
         (n)   Boats and marine sales and repair: see “auto repair”;
         (o)   Building material sales in structure, garden supply store: see
“auto repair”; and
         (p)   Undertaking establishments: at least 20 parking spaces for each
chapel or parlor, plus one parking space for each funeral vehicle maintained on
the premises. Aisle space shall also be provided off the street for making up a
funeral procession.
      (4)   Offices. Office buildings, financial institutions, professional
offices, medical and dental clinics: at least one off-street parking space for
each 300 square feet of floor area.
      (5)   Industrial.
         (a)   Manufacturing, fabricating or processing of a product or
material; warehouse, storage, handling of bulk goods: at least eight spaces,
plus one space for each two employees on each shift based on maximum planned
employment or at a minimum at least eight spaces, plus one space for each 500
square feet of floor area; and
         (b)   Bottling company: eight off-street parking spaces, plus one
additional space for each 800 square feet of floor area over 1,000 square feet.
      (6)   B-3 (Central Business) District. All non-residential uses shall
provide at least one parking space for each 500 square feet of floor area.
         (a)   Parking requirements for non-residential uses in the B-
3 District may be reduced or waived as a conditional use, subject to the
provisions and procedures of §
157.099 of this chapter; and, provided that:
            1.   The applicant demonstrates that proposal will not adversely
affect the existing parking situation in the immediate area;
            2.   Excess parking capacity on and off-street exists and that
long-term parking needs will be accommodated; or
            3.   Time of peak parking demand differs from that of surrounding
businesses and land uses or that parking requirements will be reduced through
an organized carpooling program or other similar efforts.
         (b)   The applicant shall use parking surveys and accepted parking
standards and data as a basis for assessing the parking impact of the proposal.
   (H)   Joint parking facility.
      (1)   The City Council may, after receiving a report and recommendation
from the Planning Commission, approve a conditional use permit for one or more
businesses to provide the required off-street parking facilities by joint use
of one or more sites where the total number of spaces provided are less than
the sum of the total required for each business, should they provide them
separately.
      (2)   When considering a request for such a permit, the Planning
Commission shall not recommend that such permit be granted nor the Council
approve such a permit, except when the following conditions are found to exist:
         (a)   The building or use for which application is being made to
utilize the off-street parking facilities provided by other building or use
shall be located within 300 feet of such parking facilities;
         (b)   The applicant shall show that there is no substantial conflict
in the principal operating hours of the two buildings or uses for which joint
use of off-street parking facilities is proposed; and
         (c)   A properly drawn legal instrument, executed by the parties
concerned for joint use of off-street parking facilities, duly approved as to
form and manner of execution by the City Attorney, shall be filed with the City
Clerk-Treasurer and recorded with the County Auditor.
   (I)   Off-site parking.
      (1)   Any off-site parking which is used to meet the requirements of this
chapter shall be a conditional use as regulated by §
157.099 of this chapter.
         (a)   Such off-site parking shall comply with all parking standards
stated in this chapter.
         (b)   Reasonable access from off-site parking facilities to the use
served shall be provided.
      (2)   Any use which depends on off-site parking to meet the requirements
of this chapter shall maintain the minimum number of required parking spaces or
cease operation and use until such time as there is full compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Wherever required parking facilities are on a lot or parcel of land
other than the principal building which is to be served, a properly drawn legal
instrument, executed by the parties concerned, duly approved as to form and
manner of execution by the City Attorney, shall be filed with the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (4)   Any use which depends upon off-site parking to meet the
requirements of this chapter shall require a certificate of occupancy,
renewable annually, as regulated in §
157.102 of this chapter.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1061, passed 6-16-1992; Ord. 1083, passed 12-
7-1993; Ord. 1113, passed 5-16-1996; Ord. 1132, passed 2-20-1996; Ord. 1156,
passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 1160, passed 4-15-1997; Ord. 1491, passed 1-8-2013; Ord.
1501, passed 6-4-2013; Ord. 1557, passed 3-7-2017) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.054 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Adequate off-street loading space shall be provided in connection with any
structure which requires receipt or distribution of materials by vehicles.
   (A)   Number of loading berths required. The number of required off-street
loading berths shall be as follows:
      (1)   Manufacturing, fabrication, processing, warehousing, storing,
retail sales, schools and hotels.
         (a)   For such a building between 5,000 and 50,000 square feet of
floor area: one loading berth is required;
         (b)   For a building 50,001 to 100,000 square feet in area: two
loading berths are required; and
         (c)   One loading berth shall be provided for each additional 35,000
square feet of floor area or fraction thereof in excess of 100,000 square feet.
      (2)   Manufacturing and retail sales under 5,000 square feet. Adequate
off-street loading and service entrances shall be provided subject to the
approval of the Zoning Administrator;
      (3)   Auditorium, convention hall, exhibition hall, sports arena or
stadium. Ten thousand to 100,000 square feet of floor area, one loading berth;
for each additional 100,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof, one
additional loading berth; and
      (4)   Public or semi-public recreational buildings, community centers,
private and public educational institutions, religious institutions, hospitals,
clinics, professional or commercial offices, nursing homes, or similar group
housing, and senior citizen housing. Adequate off-street loading and service
entrances shall be provided subject to approval of the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   All required loading berths and facilities shall be off-street and
located on the same lots as the building or use to be served.
      (2)   All loading berth curb cuts shall be located at minimum 50 feet
from the intersection of two or more street rights-of-way. This distance shall
be measured from the property line.
      (3)   No loading berth shall be located closer than 50 feet from a
residential district unless within a structure.
      (4)   Loading berths shall not occupy the front yard setback.
      (5)   Loading berths located at the front or at the sides of buildings
abutting street right-of-way shall require a conditional use permit as provided
for in §
157.099 of this chapter, if such loading berth is closer than 200 feet from
street right-of-way.
         (a)   Loading berths shall not conflict with pedestrian movement.
         (b)   Loading berths shall not obstruct the view of the public right-
of-way from off-street access.
         (c)   Loading berths shall comply with all other requirements of this
section.
      (6)   Each loading berth shall be located with appropriate means of
vehicular access to a street or public alley in a manner which will cause the
least interference with traffic.
   (C)   Surfacing. All loading berths and driveways having access onto a
concrete or asphalt surfaced street or public right-of-way shall be surfaced
with asphalt, concrete or a reasonable substitute surface. Drainage of loading
areas is subject to approval of the City Engineer.
   (D)   Accessory use, parking and storage. Any space allocated as a required
loading berth or access drive so as to comply with the terms of these zoning
regulations shall not be used for the storage of goods, inoperable vehicles or
snow, and shall not be included as part of the area used to meet off-street
parking requirements.
   (E)   Screening. Except in the case of multiple dwellings, all loading areas
shall be screened and landscaped from abutting and surrounding residential uses
in compliance with §
157.070 of this chapter.
   (F)   Size. Unless otherwise specified in these zoning regulations, the
first loading berth shall be not less than 55 feet in length and additional
berths required shall be not less than 30 feet in length and all loading berths
shall be not less than ten feet in width and 14 feet in height, exclusive of
aisle and maneuvering space.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1061, passed 6-16-1992; Ord. 1160, passed 4-
15-1997) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.055 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY; CORNER LOTS.
   Except in the Central Business District, no fences, structures, grading or
planting shall be permitted within any yard areas on a corner lot which will
impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet and eight feet above
the centerline grades of the intersecting streets within 20 feet of the street
intersecting right-of-way lines.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.056 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Siting.
      (1)   Production phase wind energy conversion systems shall be a
permitted accessory use within the “B-1”, “B-2”, “B-3”, “I-P”, “I-1”, “I-2” and
“A-O” Zoning Districts; provided that, the proposed lot exceeds 200 feet from
any residential use and/or district, except for any residence situated on that
lot, in which case a six-foot separation between tower and structure must be
maintained; that in all other cases, the WECS cannot be located closer than six
feet from any other principal or accessory structure; WECS must be located in
the rear yard; and the tower must be set back from all property lines a
distance not less than the total height of the WECS.
      (2)   No part of a WECS shall be located within or over drainage, utility
or other established easements.
      (3)   Clearance between WECS and electrical lines shall be in compliance
with the requirements outlined in the most recent edition of the National
Electrical Safety Code.
   (B)   Size regulations.
      (1)   All WECS shall not have rotors that are longer than 35 feet in
diameter.
      (2)   The minimum height of the lowest extent of any WECS rotor shall be
30 feet above the highest structure or tree within 300 feet.
      (3)   All proposed WECS shall comply with Federal Aviation Administration
notification requirements and any other applicable regulations. All proposed
WECS shall be in compliance with any applicable airport zoning.
      (4)   The base of a WECS tower shall be included in calculations of lot
coverage. In the case of a guyed tower, the area covered by the guy wire anchor
points shall also be included in lot coverage calculations.   
(C)   Installation and design.
      (1)   All WECS tower structures shall be designed and constructed to be
in compliance with pertinent provisions of the State Building Code. Indication
of compliance may be obtained from the manufacturer’s engineering staff or by a
state professional engineer or by an individual with technical training on
WECS.
      (2)   All WECS shall be equipped with manual and automatic and overspeed
controls. The conformance of rotor and overspeed control design and fabrication
with good engineering practices shall be certified by the manufacturer’s
engineering staff or by a state professional engineer or by an individual with
technical training on WECS.
      (3)   The compatibility of the tower structure with the rotors and other
components of the WECS shall be certified by the manufacturer’s engineering
staff or by a state professional engineer or by an individual with technical
training on WECS.
      (4)   All electrical components of the WECS shall be in compliance with
the applicable requirements of the National Electrical Code as currently
adopted by the State Building Code Division and shall be inspected by a
qualified electrical inspector. The interconnection between the WECS and the
electric utility shall be in compliance with the most recent edition of the
National Electrical Safety Code. Certification will be supplied in writing that
the WECS will automatically disconnect from the utility when there is no power
input from the utility. This certification can be supplied by the manufacturer
of the WECS.
      (5)   The interconnection of the WECS with the local electrical utility
shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local regulations. Parties
intending to erect a WECS shall notify the city’s public utilities in advance
of their installation plans.
      (6)   At least one sign shall be posted at the base of the WECS tower and
shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Notice of no trespassing; and
         (b)   Warning of high voltage.
   (D)   Supplying energy to two or more structures. A WECS that supplies
energy to two or more structures shall be allowed as long as the proposed WECS
complies with all applicable zoning regulations.
   (E)   Compliance. If a WECS is not maintained in operational condition and
poses a potential safety hazard or is not maintained and operating in
compliance with applicable zoning provisions, local utility regulations and
state and federal laws, the WECS shall be brought into compliance and to safe
operating order within 60 days, the city reserves the right to abate any
hazardous situation and to pass the cost of abatement on to the owner or
operator of the WECS.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1462, passed 12-7-2010) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.057 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   In all residential zoning districts, the following essential services are
permitted uses; except that, the Planning Commission shall be notified in
writing of the project 90 days prior to construction. Notification shall
include the proposed location and site plan. The Planning Commission shall
review the proposal and may submit recommendations to the City Council. This
provision shall apply to water towers, wells and pumphouses, electrical
substations and sanitary sewer lift stations.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. passed 8-20-1985)
§ 157.058 SOLAR COLLECTION SYSTEMS.
   A SOLAR COLLECTION SYSTEM is any device that absorbs and accumulates solar
radiation for use as a source of energy. Regulations for districts are as
follows.
   (A)   Residential districts.
      (1)   Ground mounted and freestanding solar collection systems are
permitted as accessory uses in all residential zoning districts subject to the
following requirements:
         (a)   Must be located in rear yard only;
         (b)   A setback of at least three feet from the side and rear property
line must be maintained but in no case shall system be located within an
easement;
         (c)   Must be located at least three feet from any other principal or
accessory structure;
         (d)   Shall not exceed 15 feet in height when oriented at maximum
tilt;
         (e)   Must be located as to minimize glare directed toward an
adjoining property or street;
         (f)   Total surface area of all ground-mounted and free-standing solar
collectors on the lot shall not exceed 250 square feet;
         (g)   All exterior electrical or other service lines must be buried
below the surface of the ground;
         (h)   Square footage of the solar collection system shall be
considered in determining the maximum amount of accessory buildings and
structures permitted on a lot;
         (i)   Shall comply with All City and State Building and Electrical
Codes;
         (j)   The property owner shall notify the electrical utility where the
solar collector system is connected to the electrical utility system;
         (k)   If the solar collection system ceases to perform its originally
intended function for more than 12 consecutive months, the property owner shall
remove the collector, mount and associated equipment no later than 90 days
after the 12-month period; and
         (l)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to secure
any desired solar easement to protect solar access for the system (as per Minn.
Stat. § 500.30, as it may be amended from time to time).
      (2)   Rooftop and wall mounted solar collection systems are permitted on
principal and accessory buildings in all residential zoning districts subject
to the following requirements:
         (a)   Shall not project beyond the peak of the roof;
         (b)   Shall not be more than five feet above the roof to which it is
attached;
         (c)   Shall comply with all City and State Building and Electrical
Codes;
         (d)   The property owner shall notify the electrical utility where the
solar collector system is connected to the electrical utility system;
         (e)   If the solar collection system ceases to perform its originally
intended function for more than 12 consecutive months, the property owner shall
remove the collector, mount and associated equipment no later than 90 days
after the 12-month period;
         (f)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to secure
any desired solar easement to protect solar access for the system (as per Minn.
Stat. § 500.30, as it may be amended from time to time); and
         (g)   Must be located as to minimize glare directed toward an
adjoining property or street.
   (B)   Business, industrial and agricultural districts.
      (1)   Ground mounted and freestanding solar collection systems are
permitted as accessory uses in all business, industrial and agricultural zoning
districts subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Must be located in rear yard only;
         (b)   A setback of at least three feet from the side and rear property
line must be maintained but in no case shall it be located within an easement;
         (c)   Must be located at least three feet from any other principal or
accessory structure;
         (d)   Not to exceed 25 feet in height when oriented as maximum tilt;
         (e)   Must be located as to minimize glare directed toward an
adjoining property or street;
         (f)   Total surface area of all ground-mounted and freestanding solar
collectors on the lot shall not exceed 1,000 square feet;
         (g)   Square footage shall be considered in determining the maximum
amount of accessory buildings and structures permitted on a lot;
         (h)   Shall comply with all City and State Building and Electrical
Codes;
         (i)   The property owner shall notify the electrical utility where the
solar collector system is connected to the electrical utility system;
         (j)   If the solar collection system ceases to perform its originally
intended function for more than 12 consecutive months, the property owner shall
remove the collector, mount and associated equipment no later than 90 days
after the 12-month period; and
         (k)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to secure
any desired solar easement to protect solar access for the system (as per Minn.
Stat. § 500.30, as it may be amended from time to time).
      (2)   Rooftop and wall mounted solar collection systems are permitted on
principal and accessory buildings in all business, industrial and agricultural
zoning districts subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Shall comply with all Building Code requirements;
         (b)   Shall not exceed the maximum height permitted in the zoning
district in which it is located;
         (c)   Must be located as to minimize glare directed toward an
adjoining property or street;
         (d)   The property owner shall notify the electrical utility where the
solar collection system is connected to the electrical utility system;
         (e)   If the solar collection system ceases to perform its originally
intended function for more than 12 consecutive months, the property owner shall
remove the collector, mount and associated equipment no later than 90 days
after the 12-month period; and
         (f)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to secure
any desired solar easement to protect solar access for the system (as per Minn.
Stat. § 500.30, as it may be amended from time to time).
(Ord. 1480, passed 2-6-2012) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.059 TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTH CARE DWELLINGS OPT-OUT.
   Pursuant to authority granted by Minn. Stat. § 462.3593, Subd. 9, the City
of Owatonna opts-out of the requirements of Minn. Stat. § 462.3593, which
defines and regulates temporary family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 1542, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 157.060 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
   Accessory dwelling units are permitted subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   The accessory dwelling unit shall have a minimum square footage of 300
square feet and shall be limited to a maximum square footage of 30% of the
primary dwelling units total square footage;
   (B)   Both units shall be served by the same mailbox and the same mailing
address;
   (C)   The structure shall have the appearance of a single-family residence
from the street and shall not have more than one front door;
   (D)   Both units shall be served by the same sanitary sewer service, water
service and meter, electric service and meter, and gas service and meter;
   (E)   The owner of said structure shall submit a letter to the City Planner
annually stating that one of the units is owner occupied; and
   (F)   The structure shall be registered with the city's rental registration
program and inspected on a biennial basis or as the program requires.
(Ord. 1596, passed 9-3-2019)
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 157.070 REQUIRED FENCING, SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING.
   The fencing and screening required by this chapter shall be subject to §
157.051 of this chapter and shall consist of either a fence or a green belt
planting strip.
   (A)   A greenbelt planting strip shall consist of evergreen ground cover and
shall be of sufficient width and density to provide an effective screen. This
planting strip shall contain no structures or other use. Such planting strip
shall not be less than eight feet in height. Earth mounding or berms may be
used, but shall not be used to achieve more than three feet of the required
screen. The planting plan and type of shrub shall require the approval of the
Planning Commission, based upon a recommendation of the City Engineer and
Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   A required screening fence shall be constructed of masonry, brick,
wood or steel. Such fence shall provide a solid screening effect and shall not
be less than six feet in height. The design and materials used in constructing
a required screening fence shall be subject to the approval of the Planning
Commission, based upon a recommendation by the City Engineer and Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   Screening will be provided in the following situations.
      (1)   Residential district. Screening from abutting residential uses
shall be provided in the following instances:
         (a)   Public utility buildings and structures: all open, non-
residential off-street parking areas of five or more spaces;
         (b)   Screening from abutting “R-1”, “R-2”, “R-3” and “R-4” Districts
shall be provided in the following instances: professional offices and clinics;
and
         (c)   Side yards and recreation areas shall be screened in the
following instances: nursing homes and group housing (serving over 16).
      (2)   Business districts. Screening from abutting residential districts
shall be provided in the following instances: public utility buildings and
structures, convenience food, car wash, motor fuel station, major auto repair,
tire and battery stores and service, open and outdoor storage, service, sales
and rentals, greenhouses and all open off-street parking areas of five or more
spaces.
      (3)   Industrial districts. Screening from abutting residential districts
and view from a public right-of-way shall be provided in the following
instances: open and outdoor storage, service, sales and/or rentals; and all
open, off-street parking areas of five or more spaces.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.071 EXPLOSIVES.
   No activities involving the storage, utilization or manufacture of materials
or products such as TNT or dynamite which could decompose by detonation shall
be permitted, except such as are specifically licensed by the City Council.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.072 RADIATION AND ELECTRICAL EMISSIONS.
   No activities shall be permitted that emit dangerous radioactivity beyond
enclosed areas. There shall be no electrical disturbance (except from domestic
household appliances) adversely affecting the operation at any point of any
equipment other than that of the creator of such disturbance.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.073 LIGHTING AND GLARE.
   (A)   Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area, sign or
other structure shall be arranged as to deflect light away from any adjoining
residential zone or from the public streets. Direct or sky-reflected glare,
whether from floodlights or from high temperature processes such as combustion
or welding, shall not be directed into any adjoining property. The source of
lights shall be hooded or controlled in the manner so as not to light adjacent
property. Bare incandescent light bulbs shall not be permitted in view of
adjacent property or public right-of-way.
   (B)   (1)   Except for street lighting provided by the city’s public
utilities, any light or combination of lights which cast light on a public
street shall not exceed one foot candle (meter reading) as measured from the
centerline of said street.
      (2)   Any light or combination of lights which cast light on residential
property shall not exceed 0.4 foot candles (meter reading) as measured from
said property.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.074 SMOKE.
   The emission of smoke by any use shall be in compliance with and regulated
by the state Pollution Control Agency rules. See Minn. Rules Chapters 7001,
7002, 7005, 7007, 7008, 7009, 7011, 7017, 7019, 7021, 7023, 7025, 7027 and
7030.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.075 DUST AND OTHER PARTICULATE MATTER.
   The emission of dust, fly ash or other particulate matter by any use shall
be in compliance with and regulated by the state Pollution Control Agency
rules. See Minn. Rules Chapters 7001, 7002, 7005, 7007, 7008, 7009, 7011, 7017,
7019, 7021, 7023, 7025, 7027 and 7030
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.076 ODORS.
   The emission of odor by any use shall be in compliance with and regulated by
applicable state pollution control standards and regulations.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1061, passed 6-16-1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.077 NOISE.
   (A)   Noise generated by any use shall be in compliance with and regulated
by applicable State Pollution Control Agency, Air Quality Division, noise
pollution control rules and any amendments thereof.
   (B)   In instances where it is determined that a proposed land use may
generate a level of noise or vibration that will impact on surrounding land
uses, the Planning Commission and City Council may require that efforts to
reduce the potential noise impact be undertaken. These efforts may include
screening, landscaping, site planning techniques and restrictions on operating
hours.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1061, passed 6-16-1992) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.078 DRAINAGE.
   On request, a drainage plan for the proposed development shall be submitted
to the City Engineer for review and approval.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.079 REQUIRED LICENSE OBTAINED.
   Proof of the issuance of all necessary governmental permits and licenses
must be filed with the city.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.080 OUTSIDE SALES OR STORAGE.
   In the case of outside storage or sales, the area must be grass or surfaced
to control dust.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
157.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 157.095 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   (A)   General enforcement. This chapter shall be administered and enforced
by the Zoning Administrator who shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   Duties of the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall
enforce this chapter through the proper legal channels and, in addition thereto
and in furtherance of said authority, he or she shall:
      (1)   Assist the Building Inspector in determining that all building
permits comply with the terms of this chapter;
      (2)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, all maps, amendments, conditional uses, variances, appeals
and applications therefor;
      (3)   Receive, file, and forward all applications for appeal, variances,
conditional uses and other matters to the designated official bodies;
      (4)   Institute in the name of the city any appropriate actions or
proceedings against a violator as provided by law; and
      (5)   Schedule public hearings for the Planning Commission and Zoning
Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983)
§ 157.096 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Zoning Board of Appeals for the city,
which shall consist of all the members of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Board shall have the power and duty of hearing and deciding,
subject to appeal to the City Council, appeals or requests in the following
cases:
      (1)   Appeals where it is alleged that there is an error in any order
requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative officer in the
enforcement of this chapter; and
      (2)   Requests for variances from provisions of this chapter as provided
for in §
157.100 of this chapter.
   (C)   In granting a variance, the Board and the City Council, on appeal, may
impose conditions to ensure compliance and to protect adjacent properties.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1479, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 157.097 APPEALS.
   (A)   Authority. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals
from and review any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
Enforcement Officer in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   An appeal may be taken to the Zoning Board of Appeals by any person
or by any officer, department, board or commission of the city affected by a
decision of the enforcement officer. Such appeal shall be taken within 45 days
of the action complained of by filing with the enforcement officer and with the
City Clerk-Treasurer a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. A non-
refundable filing fee, established from time to time by the City Council to
cover administrative costs and costs of the hearing, shall accompany the notice
of appeal filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer. The enforcement officer shall
forthwith transmit to the Zoning Board of Appeals all of the papers
constituting the record which the action appealed from was taken.
      (2)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings with furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the enforcement officer certified to the Zoning Board of
Appeals after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her that, by
reasons of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case the
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which
may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals or by a court of record on
application on notice to the enforcement officer and on due cause shown.
      (3)   A public hearing shall be set, advertised and conducted by the
Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with §
157.101 of this chapter.
      (4)   Within 30 days following the close of the public hearing, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall render a decision on the appeal.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983)
§ 157.098 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Authority. This chapter and the zoning district may be amended from
time to time by ordinance duly enacted by the City Council; provided, however,
that, no such amendment shall be enacted, except in accordance with the
procedures of this section, and in compliance with the City Charter.
   (B)   Initiation. Proposed changes or amendments may be initiated by the
City Council, by the Zoning Board of Appeals, by the Planning Commission or by
any one or more owners of real estate in the city so as to effect real estate
of such owner/owners.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   When any proposed change or amendment is initiated by the City
Council or by the Board of Appeals, such body shall transmit its proposal to
the Planning Commission for a public hearing and report thereon.
      (2)   (a)   When any proposed change or amendment is initiated by any
owner of owners of real estate in the city, an application for such amendment,
addressed to the City Council, shall be filed in quintuplicate with the Zoning
Administrator. A non-refundable application fee, established from time to time
by the City Council to cover administrative costs, shall accompany the
application.
         (b)   The application shall be in such form and contain such
information as shall be prescribed from time to time by the Planning
Commission, but shall in all instances, contain the following information:
            1.   The applicant’s name and address;
            2.   The precise wording of any proposed amendment to the text of
this chapter; and
            3.   In the event that the proposed amendment would change the
zoning classification of any property:
               a.   A legal description and street address of the property
proposed to be reclassified;
               b.   The name and address of the owner or owners of the said
property;
               c.   The present zoning classification and existing uses of the
property proposed to be reclassified;
               d.   The area of the property proposed to be reclassified,
stated in square feet or acres, or fraction thereof; and
               e.   A map, drawn to scale, clearly showing the property
proposed to be reclassified and its present zoning classification and existing
uses.
      (3)   A public hearing shall be set, advertised and conducted by the
Planning Commission in accordance with §
157.101 of this chapter.
      (4)   Within 30 days following the conclusion of the public hearing, the
Planning Commission shall transmit to the City Council its recommendation in
the form of a written report. Such report shall be accompanied by findings of
fact specifying the reasons for the recommendation.
      (5)   Within 30 days of the receipt of the report of the Planning
Commission, the City Council shall refuse or, by ordinance, duly enacted adopt
the proposed amendment.
      (6)   A certified copy of the ordinance amendment shall be filed with the
County Auditor.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983)
§ 157.099 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Duplicate submissions. An application for a conditional use permit
shall be submitted in duplicate to the Zoning Administrator. A non-refundable
application fee, as established from time to time by the City Council to cover
administrative costs and costs of hearing, shall accompany each application.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of a conditional use permit is to provide the
city with a reasonable degree of discretion in determining the suitability of
certain designated uses upon the general welfare, public health and safety.
   (C)   Standards for granting conditional use permit. In making this
determination, whether or not the conditional use is to be allowed, the city
shall consider the following.
      (1)   General. If the establishment or operation of the proposed
conditional use will be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety,
morals, comfort or general welfare.
      (2)   Compatibility with surrounding area. The architectural appearance
and functional plan of the building and site shall reflect the building
character of the area and shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings
or area as to cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting
influence within a reasonable distance of the lot. The proposed development
shall be compatible with existing and planned use of the area and conflicts
should not be created between the proposed use and existing and intended future
uses of the surrounding area.
      (3)   Traffic control. The traffic generated by a use shall be
channelized and controlled in a manner that will avoid congestion on public
streets, safety hazards or excessive traffic through residential areas. The
traffic generated shall not raise traffic volumes beyond the capacity of the
surrounding streets. Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a
minimum of conflict with through traffic movements and shall be subject to the
approval of the City Engineer. Vehicular drive up ingress lanes shall be large
enough to accommodate peak auto use on the same lot without requiring the
stopping or waiting of vehicles on public right-of-way. Ingress lanes shall be
from the least heavily traveled street wherever possible.
      (4)   Availability and adequacy of public services. Public services,
including, but not limited to, sewer, water, gas, police and fire protection,
should be available at an adequate level and capable of servicing the proposed
land use. In addition, adequate access, drainage and any other necessary
support facilities shall be provided. The Planning Commission and City Council
may impose any necessary conditions or restrictions upon the proposed land use
to insure that an overloading of city systems does not occur and that
inordinate demand on public services does not jeopardize or limit existing and
projected public service demands.
      (5)   Other factors. All such other or further factors as the city shall
deem a requisite or consideration in determining the effect of such use on the
general welfare, public health and safety.
   (D)   Special circumstances. The Planning Commission may impose conditions
upon the conditional use, if, in its opinion, specific circumstances of a
request justify those additional controls to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the neighborhood and general public.
   (E)   Reconsideration. Whenever an application for a conditional use permit
has been considered and denied by the City Council, a similar application for a
conditional use permit affecting substantially the same property shall not be
considered again by the Planning Commission or City Council for at least six
months from the date of its denial; and a subsequent application affecting
substantially the same property shall likewise not be considered again by the
Planning Commission or City Council for an additional six months from the date
of the second denial unless a decision to reconsider such matter is made by not
less than five-sevenths vote of the City Council.
   (F)   Lapse of conditional use permit by non-use. Whenever, within one year
after granting a conditional use permit, the work has not been substantially
complete, then such permit shall become null and void unless a petition for
extension of time in which to complete the work has been granted by the City
Council. Such extensions shall be requested in writing and filed with the City
Clerk-Treasurer at least 30 days before the expiration of the original
conditional use permit. There shall be no charge for the filing of such
petition. The request for extension shall state facts showing a good faith
attempt to complete the work permitted in the conditional use permit. Such
petition shall be presented to the Planning Commission for a recommendation and
to the City Council for a decision.
   (G)   Procedure.
      (1)   A public hearing shall be set, advertised and conducted by the
Planning Commission in accordance with §
157.101 of this chapter.
      (2)   Within 30 days following the close of the public hearing, the
Planning Commission shall submit its recommendation to the City Council for its
official action.
      (3)   The City Council shall act on the application within 45 days after
receiving the recommendations of the Planning Commission.
   (H)   Performance bond.
      (1)   Except in the case of non-income producing residential property,
upon approval of a conditional use permit, the city shall be provided with a
surety bond, cash escrow, certificate of deposit, securities or cash deposit
prior to the issuing of building permits or initiation of work on the proposed
improvements or development. Said security shall guarantee conformance and
compliance with the conditions of the conditional use permit and the codes of
the city.
      (2)   The security shall be in the amount of the City Engineer’s or City
Building Inspector’s estimated costs of labor and materials for the proposed
improvements or development. Said project can be handled in stages upon the
discretion of the City Engineer and Building Inspector.
      (3)   The city shall hold the security until completion of the proposed
improvements or development and a certificate of occupancy indicating
compliance with the conditional use permit and codes of the city has been
issued by the City Building Inspector.
      (4)   Failure to comply with the conditions of the conditional use permit
and/or the codes of the city shall result in forfeiture of the security.
   (I)   Certified copy. A certified copy of the conditional use permit shall
be filed with the County Recorder.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983)
§ 157.100 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Authority. Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 462.357, Subd. 6, as it may be
amended from time to time, the Board of Zoning Appeals may authorize such
variances from the provisions of this chapter as will not be contrary to the
public interest. Variances may be authorized only in those specific instances
enumerated in this section thereof, and then only when the Zoning Board of
Appeals has made findings of fact as thereinafter required. A variance is a
modification or variation of the provisions of this chapter as applied to a
specific piece of property.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   An application for a variance shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator. A non-refundable application fee, established from time to time
by the City Council to cover administrative costs and costs of the hearing,
shall accompany each application. The application shall contain the following
information, as well as such additional information as may be prescribed by
rule of the Zoning Board of Appeals:
         (a)   The particular requirements of this chapter which prevent the
proposed use or construction;
         (b)   The circumstances unique to the property which prevent
compliance with the said requirements of this chapter;
         (c)   The minimum reduction of the requirements of this chapter which
would be necessary to permit the proposed use or construction; and
         (d)   The practical difficulty that would result if said particular
requirements of this chapter were applied to the subject property.
      (2)   A public hearing shall be set, advertised and conducted by the
Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with §
157.101 of this chapter.
      (3)   (a)   Within 30 days following the close of the public hearing, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall render its decision granting or denying the
variance. Such decision shall be accompanied by findings of fact and shall
refer to any exhibits containing plans and specifications and shall remain a
part of the permanent records of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The findings of
fact shall specify the reason or reasons for granting or denying the variance.
The terms of relief granted shall be specifically set forth in a conclusion or
statement separate from the findings of fact. A decision rendered in accordance
with the terms of this section, which grants a variance, shall be stayed until
the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council. During that time, the
City Council shall have authority to reverse the decision of the Zoning Board
of Appeals.
         (b)   A denial by the Zoning Board of Appeals of a request for
variance may be appealed to the City Council, subject to the procedures
established in §
157.101 of this chapter and payment of the fees established in §
157.102 of this chapter.
         (c)   Upon filing of such application for appeal and payment of the
applicable fees, the Zoning Administrator shall forward to the City Council the
request for hearing of appeal along with the findings of fact of the Zoning
Board of Appeals and transcript of hearing held by the Zoning Board of Appeals
on the matter.
         (d)   The City Council shall set a day and time when the said appeal
will be held and advertise the said hearing and notify parties of interest as
in the original hearing by the Zoning Board of Appeals, and shall conduct the
said hearing.
         (e)   Within 30 days following the close of the public hearing, the
City Council may affirm or reverse the action of the Zoning Board of Appeals or
return the variance request to the Zoning Board of Appeals for further
proceedings.
         (f)   Notwithstanding the above language, deadlines for action by the
Board of Appeals and City Council must meet any applicable requirements as
established in state law.
   (C)   Conditions for permitting a variance.
      (1)   A variance shall be permitted only if it is established that it is
in harmony with the general purposes and intent of this chapter is consistent
with the city’s Comprehensive Plan and that there are practical difficulties in
complying with this chapter. In its consideration of the standards of practical
difficulties, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall require evidence that:
         (a)   The property owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable
manner not permitted by this chapter;
         (b)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances unique to
the property not created by the owner; and
         (c)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
      (2)   A variance may be granted only if the evidence, in the judgment of
the Zoning Board of Appeals, sustains each of the three conditions enumerated
in division (C)(1) above. Variances may. also be permitted if necessary to
provide for adequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems, or for
the construction of earth sheltered buildings, as defined in §
157.002 of this chapter, when the permitting of the variance is in harmony with
the general purpose and intent of this chapter.
      (3)   Economic considerations alone shall not constitute practical
difficulties.
      (4)   Variances shall not be permitted for any use that is not allowed
under this chapter for property in the zone where such property is located.
      (5)   Specific conditions and safeguards may be imposed upon the premises
benefitted by a variance as considered necessary to prevent injurious effects
upon other property in the neighborhood or upon public facilities and services.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards shall be a violation of this
chapter. A condition must be directly related to and must bear a rough
proportionality to the impact created by the variance.
      (6)   No variance permitting the erection or alteration of a building
shall be valid for a period longer than six months, unless a building permit
for such erection or alteration is issued and construction is actually begun
within that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion. The
applicant may petition the Zoning Board of Appeals for extension of time in
which to complete the work. Such extensions shall be requested in writing and
filed with the Zoning Administrator at least 30 days before the expiration of
the original variance. There shall be no charge for the filing of such
petition. Such petition shall be presented to the Zoning Board of Appeals for a
recommendation and to the City Council for final a decision. The extension
shall be valid for an additional six months.
   (D)   Certified copy. A certified copy of the variance shall be filed with
the County Recorder.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1479, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 157.101 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Setting of hearing. For all requests brought before the Zoning Board
of Appeals or the Planning Commission for which a public hearing is required by
this chapter, the body in charge of conducting the hearing shall select a
reasonable time and place for the public hearing on the request. They may
direct the Zoning Administrator to schedule hearings at the next Planning
Commission meeting if an application is received at least 15 days before the
meeting.
   (B)   Notice of hearings.
      (1)   Notice of public hearing shall be given not more than 30 days and
not less than ten days before the hearing by publication at least once in the
official newspaper of the city. Such notice shall include the time and place of
the hearing, a description of the contents of the request to be heard and the
address or location of the property to which the request applies.
      (2)   In addition to the general notice to the public, separate notice by
letter, ten days before the hearing, shall be required for all property owners
residing within 350 feet of the area, where a request concerning property will
be the subject of the hearing. Such notices shall be sent by the Zoning
Administrator and addresses taken from current city records shall be deemed
sufficient for such notification.
      (3)   Where a rezoning request is to be considered, written notice shall
be sent to the school district officials.
   (C)   Conduct of hearing. Any person may appear and testify at a public
hearing, either in person or by a duly authorized agent or attorney.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983)
§ 157.102 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   (A)   To defray administrative costs of processing requests for conditional
uses, amendments, variances, appeals and site plan review for zoning
compliance, a base fee in an amount set forth in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances per application shall be paid by all
applicants. Applications for conditional uses and variances made after the fact
of a construction or commencement of an activity shall pay double the
established fee.
   (B)   In order to defray the additional cost of processing applications
(amendments, conditional uses, variances, appeals) for developments, all
applicants shall pay the total cost of staff and/or consulting time spent
exclusively in producing materials for the applicant’s request, and all
materials for said request.
      (1)   “Materials” shall include, but not be limited to, maps, graphs,
charts, drawings and the like and all printing or reproduction of materials.
      (2)   “Staff and/or consulting time” shall include any time spent in
either researching for or actual production of materials.
      (3)   The hourly rate for “staff and/or consulting time” shall be
established and made available to the applicant by the Zoning Administrator
prior to production of any materials and the applicant shall be given a
reasonable estimate of projected time and/or material costs.
   (C)   Fees shall be payable at the time applications are filed with the
Zoning Administrator and are not refundable. A deposit to cover staff or
consulting time and special materials will be established and required by the
Zoning Administrator at the time the base fee is paid. Where said costs of
staff and/or consulting time exceed the initial deposit, monthly billing
statements shall be forwarded to and subsequently paid in full by the applicant
within 30 days of receipt. No application for zoning or subdivision action or
other city permit shall be granted or approved until all fee statement balances
are paid in full.
   (D)   Fee for certificate of occupancy shall be $10 per application.(Ord.
827, passed 4-19-1983; Ord. 1061, passed 6-16-1992; Ord. 1320, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 827, passed 4-19-1983)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
   Editor’s note:
   Ordinances regarding franchise agreements, rezonings, street vacations and
closings and annexations are on file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to 1992 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
Minn. Stat. Cites Code Section
Minn. Stat. Cites       Code Section
Ch. 13                  33.01,
                        33.02
13.02, Subd. 16         32.003
13.44                   151.05
                        113.011,
                        113.033,
14.58                   113.059,
                        113.081,
                        113.101,
                        113.123
15.73, Subd. 3          94.127
16B.69                  150.999
16B.665                 Ch. 35, App. A
18.77                   93.060
18G.07                  97.23
21.72                   93.060
84.81— 84.915         71.036
84.82                   71.037
88.16                   93.045
88.17                   93.045
89.001                  97.20
89.001, Subd. 16        97.21
89.01                   97.20
89.51 through 89.64     97.20
Ch. 103A                157.007
103B.231                52.29
103B.255                52.29
Ch. 103F                154.001,
                        157.007
Ch. 103G                154.043,
                        154.131
103G.221 et seq.        93.061
Ch. 115                 51.02
115.01, Subd. 8         51.02
115.01, Subd. 22        52.26
115.07                  51.02
Ch. 116                 51.02
120A.05                 122.02
120A.24                 122.02
144.391                 114.01
144.414                 114.03
144.4167                114.06
144.4167, Subd. 4       114.06
144.411–144.417       113.052
145A.05                 132.16
152.001–152.025       115.22
152.027, Subd. 1 and 2  115.22
152.0263, Subd. 5       93.030,
                        122.01
157.15, Subd. 12        113.052
157.16                  113.052
160.22                  97.23
Ch. 168                 34.02,
                        72.06
168.011                 34.02
168.011, Subd. 21       34.02
168.011, Subd. 25(d)    71.004
168.27, Subd. 1(5)      34.02
                        71.021,
Ch. 169                 71.036,
                        121.04
169.01, Subd. 4         71.020
169.01—169.99         10.99
169.19, Subd. 8         71.061
169.222, Subd. 8        71.061
169.345                 Ch. 75, Sch. I
169.69                  93.029
216B.02                 94.127
216B.02, Subd. 4        94.127
216B.02, Subd. 6        94.127
Ch. 216D                94.130,
                        94.139
216D.01—216D.09       94.139,
                        94.148
216D.04, Subd. 3        94.127
237.16                  94.125
                        94.125,
237.162                 94.127,
                        94.141
237.162, Subd. 4        94.127
                        94.125,
237.163                 94.127,
                        94.141
237.163, Subd. 2(b)     94.126
237.163, Subd. 6        94.153
237.79                  94.125
237.81                  94.125
Ch. 238                 94.127
238.086                 94.125
245.462, Subd. 23       122.02
260B.198                132.99
Ch. 270C                34.03
270C.72                 34.11
                        Charter §§
                        5.2,
Ch. 275                 5.6,
                        5.7,
                        5.8
278.01—278.14         111.07
Ch. 289A                34.03,
                        34.10
                        34.02,
                        34.03,
Ch. 297A                34.05,
                        34.10,
                        34.11
297A.99                 34.01
297F.01, Subd. 3        114.02
297F.01, Subd. 13a      114.06
299F.011                150.015,
                        150.019
299F.362                115.22
299F.50                 151.11
300.06                  94.131
303.06                  118.040
Ch. 308A                94.127
309.50—309.61         93.023
325E.025, Subd. 2       35.05
325J.04, Subd. 2        118.049
326.40, Subd. 2         117.23
326.2421                150.022
326B.101—236B.19 4    150.001,
                        150.004
326B.121                150.002,
                        150.003
326B.133                150.002
326B.148                150.003
                        152.02,
327.14 et seq.          152.09,
                        157.027
327.31                  157.002
327B.01 et seq.         157.027
327C.01 et seq.         157.027
Ch. 329                 118.071
331A.01, Subd. 10       Charter §
                        4.7
333.01                  118.040
                        113.001,
                        113.025,
                        113.050,
                        113.051,
Ch. 340A                113.060,
                        113.061,
                        113.070,
                        113.071,
                        115.22
340A.24                 113.063
340A.24, Subd. 2        113.061,
                        157.002
340A.24, Subd. 4        113.063
340A.26                 113.061,
                        157.002
340A.28                 113.063
340A.101                113.121
340A.101, Subd. 7       113.095
340A.101, Subd. 14      113.056
340A.285                113.063
340A.285(a)             113.061
                        113.061,
340A.301, Subd. 6(c)    113.063,
                        157.002
340A.301, Subd. 6(d)    113.063
                        113.061,
340A.301, Subd. 6(i)    113.063,
                        157.002
340A.301, Subd. 6(j)    113.063,
                        157.002
340A.301, Subd. 6(o)    113.061,
                        113.063
340A.409                113.116
340A.412, Subd. 14      113.061
340A.503, Subd. 1(a)(1) 132.19
Ch. 342                 122.01
                        93.030,
342.01                  122.02,
                        122.05
342.01 et seq.          122.05
342.01, Subd. 14        122.02
342.01, Subd. 50        122.02
342.13(c)               122.01
342.17                  122.02
342.22                  122.01,
                        122.03
342.39                  122.02
342.39, Subd. 2         122.05
342.40                  122.02,
                        122.05
342.40, Subds. 3—8    122.05
347.50—347.565        90.14,
                        115.22
347.51                  90.14
347.51, Subd. 2         90.14
347.53                  90.14
347.54                  90.14
347.541, Subd. 4        90.14
                        120.03,
Ch. 349                 120.07,
                        120.99
349.11—349.22         120.03
349.12                  91.25
349.12, Subd. 25(a)     120.11
349.161, Subd. 8(2)  120.09
360.061—360.074       156.01
360.068, Subd. 2        156.39
360.073                 156.99
363A.01 et seq          32.020,
                        32.022
363A.03                 32.020
                        111.07,
364.03, Subd. 2         111.10,
                        118.045
                        111.07,
364.03, Subd. 3         111.10,
                        118.045
364.05, Subd. 3         112.24
364.06                  33.01,
                        33.02
364.09                  33.01,
                        33.02
366.012                 35.05
415.01                  35.05
                        Charter §
415.11                  2.17,
                        32.001
Ch. 420                 32.087
Ch. 429                 94.146
429.011 et seq.         35.05
429.011—429.091       73.02
                        50.49,
429.101                 93.007,
                        94.005,
                        97.30
444.075                 50.33,
                        52.01
444.075, Subd. 3        52.10
444.075, Subd. 3e       35.05
Ch. 453                 94.127
Ch. 453A                94.127
459.14                  73.01
459.14, Subd. 7         73.02
461.12                  114.99
Ch. 462                 94.146,
                        157.007
462.351—462.365       154.001,
                        157.001
462.357                 122.01
462.357, Subd. 1e       122.04
462.357, Subd. 6        157.100
                        155.002,
462.358                 155.003,
                        155.008
462.358, Subd. 2(b)     155.028
462.3593                157.059
462.3593, Subd. 9       157.059
463.17                  93.006
471.195                 33.15,
                        33.24
500.30                  157.058
504B.001, Subd. 12      115.22
Ch. 505                 155.008
505.021, Subd. 5        155.066
505.03                  155.031
505.08                  155.027
Ch. 609                 93.077
609.02, Subd. 3         96.99
609.02, Subd. 4a        96.99
609.033                 117.28,
                        117.48
609.034                 117.28,
                        117.48
609.33                  115.22
609.50                  115.22
609.66–609.67         115.22
609.71                  115.22
609.72                  115.22
609.74—609.745        115.22
609.75—609.763        115.22
609.78                  115.22
609.221—609.224       115.22
609.226                 115.22
609.321—609.325       115.22
609.685—609.6855   114.03
609.705                 115.22
609.713                 115.22
609.715                 115.22
617.23—617.299        115.22
                        111.01,
624.20, Subd. 1(c)      111.02,
                        111.04
624.712—624.719       115.22
626.862                 10.20
631.48                  10.99
5048.205, Subd. 3       115.22
                        
 
REFERENCES TO 1992 CODE
1992 Code 2015 Code
1992 Code 2015 Code
100:00    31.01
100:05    31.02
100:10    31.03
100:15    31.04
100:20    31.05
100:25    31.06
100:30    31.07
100:35    31.08
100:40    31.09
100:45    31.10
100:50    31.11
105:00    33.40
105:05    33.41
105:10    33.42
105:15    33.43
105:20    33.44
105:25    33.45
110:00    32.001
110:05    32.002
115:00    30.01
120:00    33.15
120:05    33.16,
          33.20
120:10    33.17
120:15    33.18
120:20    33.19
120:30    33.20
120:35    33.21
120:40    33.22
120:45    33.23
120:50    33.24
130:00    32.003
130:03    32.004
130:09    32.005
140:00    92.01
140:05    92.02
140:10    92.03
140:15    92.04
140:20    92.05
205:00    91.20
205:05    91.21
205:10    91.22
205:15    91.23
205:20    91.23
205:25    91.24
207:00    91.40
207:05    91.41
207:10    91.42
207:15    91.43
207:20    91.44
207:25    91.45
207:30    91.46
223:00    32.085
223:05    32.086
223:10    32.087
245:00    32.100
245:05    32.101
245:10    32.101
245:15    32.102
250:00    91.01
250:05    91.02
250:10    91.02
250:15    91.02
250:20    91.02
250:25    91.02
250:30    91.03
250:35    91.04
250:40    91.05
250:45    91.99
255:00    32.050
255:05    32.051
255:10    32.052
255:15    32.052
255:20    32.053
260:00    32.065
260:05    32.066
260:10    32.067
260:15    32.068
260:20    32.069
260:25    32.070
260:30    32.071
275:00    50.01
275:10    50.02
275:15    50.99
276:00    50.15
276:03    50.16
276:06    50.17
276:09    50.18
276:12    50.19
276:15    50.20
276:18    50.21
276:21    50.21
276:24    50.21
276:27    50.21
276:30    50.22
276:33    50.23
276:36    50.24
276:39    50.25
276:42    50.26
276:45    50.99
276:48    50.27
276:51    50.28
276:54    50.28
276:55    50.28
276:57    50.29
276:63    50.30
276:66    50.31
276:70    50.32,
          50.99
276:80    50.33
277:00    51.01
277:01    51.02
277:03    51.03
277:05    51.04
277:07    51.05
277:09    51.06
277:11    51.07
277:13    51.35—
          51.40
277:15    51.08
277:17    51.09
277:19    51.10
277:21    51.11
277:23    51.12
277:25    51.13
277:27    51.14
277:29    51.15
277:31    51.16
277:33    51.17
277:35    51.18
277:37    51.19
277:39    51.20
277:41    51.21
277:43    51.99
277:45    51.99
277:47    51.99
278.00    50.45
278.05    50.46
278.10    50.47
278.15    50.48
278.20    50.49
278.25    50.50
278.30    50.99
279:00    32.035
279:05    32.036
279:10    32.037
280:00    52.01
280:05    52.02
280:10    52.03
280:15    52.05
280:20    52.06
280:25    52.07
280:30    52.08
280:35    52.09
280:40    52.10
          150.001—
300       150.004,
          150.999
301:00    150.035
301:05    150.036
301:10    150.037
301:15    150.037
301:20    150.038
301:25    150.039
301:30    150.040
301:35    150.041
301:40    150.042
301:45    150.043
301:50    150.044
301:55    150.046
301:60    150.045
301:65    150.046
301:70    150.047
301:75    150.048
303:00    150.085
303:05    150.086
303:10    150.087
303:15    150.088
303:20    150.089
304:00    150.015
304:05    150.016
304:10    150.017
304:15    150.018
304:20    150.019
304:25    150.999
304:40    150.020
304:45    150.021
304:50    150.022
304:55    150.023
304:60    150.024
315:00    155.001—
          155.007
315:04    155.008
315:06    155.009
315:08    155.025—
          155.027
315:10    155.028
315:12    155.029
315:14    155.030
315:16    155.031
315:18    155.045—
          155.054
315:20    155.065—
          155.074
315:22    155.085—
          155.090
315:24    155.105—
          155.107
315:26    155.010
318       50.65—
          50.68
320:00    152.01
320:05    152.02
320:10    152.03
320:15    152.04
320:20    152.05
320:25    152.06
320:30    152.07
320:35    152.08
320:37    152.99
320:40    152.09
330:00    153.01
330:05    153.02
330:10    153.03
330:12    153.04
330:15    153.05
330:20    153.06
330:25    153.07
330:30    153.08
330:35    153.09
330:40    153.10
330:45    153.11
330:50    153.12
330:55    153.25
330:60    153.26
330:65    153.27
330:70    153.28
330:75    153.28
330:80    153.29
330:90    153.30
330:95    153.45
330:100   153.46
330:105   153.47
330:113   153.48
330:115   153.49
330:120   153.50
330:125   153.99
400:00    110.01
400:03    110.02
400:06    110.03
400:09    110.03
400:12    110.03
400:15    110.03
400:18    110.03
400:21    110.04
400:24    110.05
400:27    110.06
400:30    110.07
400:33    110.08
400:36    110.09
400:39    110.10
400:42    110.11
400:45    110.30—
          110.36
400:48    110.12
400:51    110.13
400:54    110.14
400:57    110.15
400:60    110.16
400:63    110.17
405:00    118.001
405:05    118.002
405:10    118.003
405:15    118.004
406:01    118.090
406:02    118.091
406:03    118.092
406:04    118.093
406:05    118.094
406:06    118.095
406:07    118.096
406:08    118.097
406:09    118.098
406:10    118.099
406.11    118.999
410:00    34.25
410:05    34.26
410:10    34.27
410:15    34.28
410:20    34.29
410:25    34.30
415:00    116.25
415:05    116.26
415:10    116.27
415:15    116.28
415:20    116.29
415:25    116.30
415:30    116.31
415:35    116.32
415:40    116.33
415:45    116.34
420:00    111.01
420:05    111.02
420:10    111.03
420:15    111.04
420:20    111.05
420:25    111.06
420:30    111.07
420:35    111.08
420:40    111.09
420:45    111.10
420:50    111.99
435:00    116.01
435:05    116.02
435:10    116.03
435:20    116.04
435:21    116.05
435:25    116.06
435:30    116.07
435:35    116.02
435:40    116.08
435:55    116.09
435:60    116.10
435:65    116.11
435:70    116.12
436:00    34.01
436:05    34.02
436:10    34.03
436:20    34.04
436:25    34.05
436:30    34.06
436:35    34.07
436:40    34.08
436:45    34.09
436:50    34.10
436:55    34.11
440:00    130.11
450:00    117.01
450:05    117.02
450:10    117.03
450:15    117.04
450:20    117.05
450:22    117.06
450:25    117.07
450:30    117.08
450:35    117.09
455:00    115.20
455:05    115.21
455:10    115.22
455:15    115.23
455:20    115.24
455:25    115.99
457:00    115.01
457:05    115.02
457:10    115.03
457:15    115.04
457:20    115.04
457:25    115.04
457:30    115.05
457:35    115.06
457:40    115.07
457:45    115.08
457:50    115.09
457:55    115.10
457:60    115.11
457:65    115.99
457:70    115.12
457:75    115.13
457:80    115.11
457:85    115.14
460:01    151.01
460:02    151.02
460:03    151.03
460:04    151.04
460:05    151.05,
          151.99
460:06    151.06
460:07    151.07
460:08    151.08
460:09    151.09
460:10    151.10
460:12    151.99
460:13    151.11
476:00    117.20
476:05    117.21
476:10    117.22
476:15    117.23
476:20    117.24
476:25    117.25
476:30    117.26
476:35    117.27
476:40    117.28
477:00    117.40
477:05    117.41
477:10    117.42
477:15    117.43
477:20    117.44
477:25    117.45
477:30    117.46
477:35    117.47
477:40    117.48
478:25    150.999
479:25    150.999
485:00    118.015
485:05    118.016
485:10    118.017
485:15    118.018
485:20    118.019
485:25    118.020
485:30    118.021
485:35    118.999
486:00    118.035
486:01    118.036
486:02    118.037
486:03    118.038
486:04    118.038
486:05    118.039
486:06    118.040
486:07    118.041
486:08    118.042
486:09    118.043
486:10    118.044
486:11    118.045
486:12    118.046
486:13    118.047
486:14    118.048
486:15    118.049
486:16    118.050
486:17    118.050
486:18    118.051
486:19    118.052
486:20    118.053
486:21    118.054
486:22    118.055
486:23    118.056
486:24    118.999
488:00    118.070
488:05    118.070
488:10    118.071
488:15    118.072
488:20    118.073
488:25    118.074
488:30    118.075
488:35    118.076
488:40    118.077
488:45    118.999
491:00    119.01
491:05    119.02
491:10    119.03
491:15    119.04
491:20    119.05
491:23    119.06
491:25    119.07
491:30    119.08
491:35    119.09
491:40    119.10
494:00    117.60
494:05    117.61
494:10    117.62
494:15    117.63
494:20    117.64
496:05    118.115
496:10    118.116
496:15    118.117
496:20    118.117
496:30    118.119
496:35    118.120
496:40    118.121
496:45    118.122
496:50    118.123
496:55    118.124
496:60    118.999
497:20    118.999
499:00    120.01
499:05    120.02
499:10    120.03
499:15    120.04
499:20    120.05
499:25    120.06
499:30    120.07
499:35    120.07
499:40    120.08
499:45    120.09
499:50    120.10
499:55    120.11
499:60    120.99
500:00    35.01
500:05    35.02
500:10    35.03
500:15    35.04
500:20    35.05
510:00    Ch. 35, App. A
510:05    Ch. 35, App. A
510:10    Ch. 35, App. A
510:15    Ch. 35, App. A
510:20    Ch. 35, App. A
510:25    Ch. 35, App. A
520:00    Ch. 35, App. A
520:05    Ch. 35, App. A
520:10    Ch. 35, App. A
520:15    Ch. 35, App. A
520:20    Ch. 35, App. A
520:30    Ch. 35, App. A
520:35    Ch. 35, App. A
520:40    Ch. 35, App. A
520:45    Ch. 35, App. A
540:00    Ch. 35, App. A
540:03    Ch. 35, App. A
540:10    Ch. 35, App. A
540:11    Ch. 35, App. A
540:15    Ch. 35, App. A
540:20    Ch. 35, App. A
540:25    Ch. 35, App. A
540:30    Ch. 35, App. A
550:00    Ch. 35, App. A
600:00    94.040
600:05    94.041
600:10    94.042
600:15    94.043
600:20    94.044
600:25    94.045
600:30    94.999
605:00    94.060
605:05    94.060
605:10    94.060
605:15    94.060
605:20    94.061
605:25    94.061
605:35    94.062
605:40    94.062
605:45    94.062
610:00    94.001
610:05    94.001
610:10    94.999
615:00    94.002
615:05    94.002
620:00    94.095
620:05    94.095
620:10    94.096
620:15    94.097
620:20    94.095
620:25    94.095
620:30    94.098
623:00    94.110
623:05    94.111
623:10    94.112
623:15    94.113
623:20    94.114
625:00    94.075
625:05    93.076
625:10    93.077
625:12    93.078
625:15    93.080
625:18    93.079
625:20    93.081
630:00    94.003
630:05    94.003
630:10    94.999
640:00    94.004
640:05    94.004
640:10    94.004
640:15    94.004
650:00    94.005
650:05    94.005
650:15    94.005
650:20    94.005
660:00    97.01
660:02    97.02
660:10    97.04,
          97.99
660:20    97.03
660:25    97.05
665:00    94.006
665:05    94.006
675:00    94.020
675:05    94.021
675:10    94.022
675:15    94.023
675:20    94.024
675:25    94.025
675:30    94.025
676:00    73.01
676:01    73.02
700:00    72.01
700:05    72.02
700:10    72.03
700:15    72.04
700:20    72.05
          72.06,
700:25    73.03,
          Ch. 75 Sch. I
700:30    72.07
700:35    72.08
700:40    72.09
700:45    72.09
700:50    72.10
700:55    72.99
700:60    72.99
700:70    72.99
702:00    71.001
702:05    71.002
702:10    71.003
702:15    71.004
702:20    71.005
702:25    71.006
702:30    71.007
702:35    71.008
702:40    71.005
702:45    71.005
702:50    71.999
705:00    70.01
705:05    70.02
705:10    70.03
705:15    70.04
705:20    70.05
705:25    70.06
710:00    Ch. 74 Sch. I
710:05    Ch. 74 Sch. I
710:10    Ch. 74 Sch. I
715:00    71.020
715:05    71.021
725:00    71.035
725:05    71.036
725:10    71.037
725:15    71.038
725:20    71.039
725:25    71.040
725:30    71.999
730:00    71.055
730:03    71.056
730:06    71.057
730:09    71.058
730:12    71.059
730:15    71.060
730:21    71.062
730:24    71.063
730:27    71.064
730:30    71.065
730:33    71.066
730:36    71.067
730:39    71.068
730:42    71.069
730:45    71.070
730:48    71.071
730:51    71.072
730:54    71.073
735:00    71.085
735:05    71.086
800:00    113.001
800:65    113.999
801:00    113.002
801:05    113.003
801:10    113.004
801:15    113.005
801:20    113.006
801:25    113.007
801:30    113.008
801:35    113.009
801:40    113.010
801:45    113.011
801:50    113.011
801:55    113.012
801:60    113.013
803:00    113.025
804:00    113.026
804:05    113.027
804:10    113.028
804:15    113.029
804:20    113.030
804:25    113.031
804:30    113.032
804:35    113.033
804:40    113.034
804:45    113.035
805:00    113.050
805:45    113.999
806:00    113.051
806:05    113.052
806:10    113.053
806:15    113.054
806:20    113.055
806:25    113.056
806:30    113.057
806:35    113.058
806:40    113.059
810:00    113.070
810:55    113.999
811:00    113.071
811:05    113.072
811:10    113.073
811:15    113.074
811:20    113.075
811:25    113.076
811:30    113.077
811:35    113.078
811:40    113.079
811:45    113.080
811:50    113.081
815:00    113.095
815:05    113.096
815:10    113.097
815:15    113.098
815:20    113.099
815:25    113.100
815:30    113.101
820:00    113.115
820:05    113.116
820:10    113.117
820:15    113.118
820:20    113.119
820:25    113.120
820:30    113.121,
          113.122
820:35    113.123
900:00    130.01
900:10    130.03
900:15    130.04
905:00    130.05
910:00    131.01—
          131.05
910:05    131.06
920:00    130.06
920:05    130.06
920:10    130.99
940:00    130.07
950:00    130.08
950:05    130.08
950:10    130.08
955:00    130.09
960.00    130.25
960.05    130.26
960.10    130.27
960.15    130.28
960.20    130.29
960.25    130.30
975:00    133.01
975:05    133.02
975:10    133.03
975:15    133.04
975:25    133.99
980:00    130.10
980:05    130.10
980:10    130.99
1000:00   93.001
1005:00   90.25
1005:05   90.26
1005:10   90.27
1005:15   90.28
1005:20   90.29
1005:25   90.30
1005:30   90.31
1005:35   90.32
1010:00   93.040
1010:05   93.041
1010:10   93.042
1010:15   93.043
1010:20   93.044
1010:25   93.045
1015:00   150.060
1015:05   150.060
1015:15   150.061
1015:20   150.062
1015:25   150.063
1015:30   150.999
1015:35   150.064
1015:40   150.065
1015:45   150.066
1015:50   150.067
1015:55   150.068
1020:00   93.020
1020:05   93.999
1025:00   90.01
1025:03   90.02
1025:05   90.03
1025:20   90.04
1025:25   90.05
1025:30   90.06
1025:35   90.07
1025:40   90.08
1025:45   90.08
1025:50   90.08
1025:55   90.08
1025:60   90.08
1025:65   90.08
1025:70   90.09
1025:75   90.10
1025:85   90.11
1025:90   90.12
1025:95   90.13
1025:100  90.99
1035:00   93.021
1035:05   93.021
1035:10   93.021
1035:15   93.021
1040:00   93.022
1040:05   93.022
1040:10   93.022
1040:15   93.022
1045:00   93.023
1045:05   93.999
1045:10   93.999
1045:15   93.023
1050:00   93.024
1050:05   93.024
1050:10   93.024
1050:15   93.999
1052:00   93.025
1052:05   93.025
1052:10   93.025
1052:15   93.999
1055:00   93.026
1055:10   93.026
1055:15   93.999
1060:00   93.027,
          93.999
1060:05   93.999
1065:00   93.060
1065:05   93.061
1065:10   93.062
1065:15   93.063
1065:20   93.999
1067:00   93.064
1067:05   93.064
1067:10   93.064
1067:15   93.064
1070:00   93.028
1070:05   93.028
1070:10   93.028
1080:00   93.029
1080:05   93.999
1082:00   95.01
1082:05   95.02
1082:10   95.03
1082:15   95.04
1082:20   95.05
1082:25   95.06
1082:30   95.06
1082:35   95.99
1085:00   96.01
1085:05   96.02
1085:10   96.03
1085:15   96.04
1085:20   96.99
1085:30   96.99
1090:00   93.001
1090:05   93.002
1090:10   93.003
1090:15   93.004
1090:20   93.005
1090:25   93.006
1090:30   93.007
1090:35   93.999
1092:00   93.075—
          93.077
1092:05   93.078
1092:10   93.079
1092:15   93.080
1092:20   93.081
1095:05   112.01
1095:10   112.02
1095:15   112.03
1095:20   112.04
1095:25   112.05
          112.20—
1095:30   112.27,
          112.99
1100:10   10.99
1100:15   10.99
1100:20   10.99
1100:25   10.99
1100:30   10.99
1100:35   10.99
1100:40   10.99
1100:45   10.99
1100:50   10.99
1100:55   10.99
1400:25   10.05
1400:30   10.05
          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     151.01—
—      - -         151.11,
                     151.99
                     113.050,
700      10-18-1978  113.070,
                     113.999
726      11-20-1979  113.025
727      11-20-1979  113.001,
                     113.999
                     157.001—
                     157.008,
                     157.020—
                     157.028,
                     157.040—
827      4-19-1983   157.057,
                     157.070—
                     157.080,
                     157.095—
                     157.102,
                     157.999
1047     1-7-1992    117.09
1052     2-4-1992    157.002,
                     157.022
                     97.01—
1058     4-7-1992    97.05,
                     97.99
                     157.002,
                     157.003,
                     157.020,
                     157.021,
                     157.028,
1061     6-16-1992   157.041,
                     157.052—
                     157.054,
                     157.076,
                     157.077,
                     157.102
1064     7-21-1992   Charter §
                     9.2
                     32.065—
1065     8-18-1992   32.068,
                     32.071
                     155.001—
                     155.010,
                     155.025—
                     155.031,
                     155.045—
1069     3-2-1993    155.054,
                     155.065—
                     155.074,
                     155.085—
                     155.090,
                     155.105—
                     155.107
1074     8-17-1993   32.003
1079     10-5-1993   150.015
1083     12-7-1993   157.028,
                     157.053
1087     2-28-1994   157.002,
                     157.022
1088     4-19-1994   Ch. 75 Sch. I
1089     4-19-1994   117.02
1090     5-17-1994   157.002,
                     157.021
1097     11-1-1994   153.30
1098     11-1-1994   72.02
1100     12-6-1994   113.054
1110     5-2-1995    157.023
1111     5-2-1995    153.30
1113     5-16-1995   157.002
1116     7-18-1995   157.040
1118     8-1-1995    157.022
1119     8-15-1995   32.001
1121     9-5-1995    157.021
1128     10-3-1995   72.02
1132     2-20-1996   157.053
1134     3-4-1996    153.28
1135     3-19-1996   97.03
                     157.002,
1113     5-16-1996   157.020,
                     157.021,
                     157.053
                     93.001—
1137     5-21-1996   93.007,
                     93.999
1138     5-21-1996   72.99
1139     6-4-1996    157.002
                     157.002,
1145     8-6-1996    157.006,
                     157.040
1147     8-20-1996   157.002,
                     157.041
1156     1-7-1997    157.053
                     157.021,
                     157.022,
1160     4-15-1997   157.028,
                     157.041,
                     157.052—
                     157.054
-        8-19-1997   113.035
                     157.002,
                     157.003,
1168     8-19-1997   157.020,
                     157.021,
                     157.023
1172     10-21-1997  Ch. 35, App. A
                     112.01—
                     112.06,
1173     11-3-1997   112.20—
                     112.27,
                     112.99
1177     12-2-1997   153.31
1183     5-5-1998    93.999
                     52.01—
1187     7-7-1998    52.03,
                     52.05—
                     52.10
1189     8-4-1998    150.015
1192     10-20-1998  72.02,
                     72.99
1194     11-2-1998   153.28
1195     11-17-1998  92.01—
                     92.05
1198     1-5-1999    Ch. 35, App. A
1200     1-5-1999    113.052
1201     1-19-1999   92.04
1204     4-6-1999    153.31
1207     5-4-1999    Ch. 35, App. A
1209     7-6-1999    153.30
                     93.060—
1212     8-3-1999    93.063,
                     93.999
                     120.01—
1216     11-16-1999  120.11,
                     120.99
1217     11-16-1999  153.27—
                     153.29
1220     12-21-1999  91.01
1221     12-21-1999  31.05
1222     12-21-1999  Charter §
                     4.1
1224     1-4-2000    153.25,
                     153.26
1226     4-4-2000    50.21
1227     4-4-2000    Ch. 35, App. A
1230     5-2-2000    Ch. 35, App. A
1231     5-2-2000    32.035—
                     32.037
                     97.01—
1232     5-16-2000   97.05,
                     97.99
1233     5-16-2000   157.023
1234     6-6-2000    32.020—
                     32.022
                     120.01—
1235     6-20-2000   120.11,
                     120.99
                     113.027,
1236     6-20-2000   113.053,
                     113.074
1237     8-1-2000    94.005
1244     10-3-2000   153.31
1246     11-6-2000   Ch. 35, App. A
1248     12-5-2000   51.04,
                     51.20
                     157.002,
1255     5-1-2001    157.005,
                     157.007,
                     157.026
                     156.01—
                     156.07,
                     156.20—
1257     5-15-2001   156.23,
                     156.35—
                     156.40,
                     156.99
1260     7-2-2001    157.040
1262     8-7-2001    133.01
1264     9-4-2001    150.015
1268     9-4-2001    93.021
                     96.01—
1275     3-4-2002    96.04,
                     96.99
1282     6-17-2002   93.025,
                     93.999
1285     7-16-2002   157.003
1286     7-16-2002   157.021
1288     8-6-2002    93.075—
                     93.081
1295     10-15-2002  157.021
1297     11-4-2002   113.052
1303     12-17-2002  Ch. 35, App. A
1304     1-7-2003    157.005,
                     157.040
1309     3-18-2003   10.99
                     111.01—
1310     4-1-2003    111.10,
                     111.99
1311     4-1-2003    Ch. 35, App. A
                     151.01—
1315     5-20-2003   151.11,
                     151.99
                     115.01—
1316     5-20-2003   115.14,
                     115.99
                     115.20—
1317     5-20-2003   115.24,
                     115.99
1318     6-3-2003    Ch. 35, App. A
1319     6-3-2003    Ch. 35, App. A
1320     6-3-2003    157.102
                     150.001—
1322     7-15-2003   150.004,
                     150.999
                     118.035—
1323     7-15-2003   118.056,
                     118.999
1324     7-15-2003   Ch. 35, App. A
1325     8-5-2003    150.015—
                     150.024
                     97.01—
1330     11-5-2003   97.05,
                     97.99
                     93.060—
1331     11-5-2003   93.063,
                     93.999
1332     12-16-2003  Ch. 35, App. A
1333     12-16-2003  Ch. 35, App. A
                     111.01—
1341     5-4-2004    111.10,
                     111.99
1342     5-4-2004    Ch. 35, App. A
1343     5-4-2004    93.045
1344     5-4-2004    Ch. 35, App. A
1349     7-20-2004   72.06
1352     8-3-2004    93.001
1358     11-16-2004  72.99
1361     2-15-2005   91.02
1365     4-19-2005   157.022
1370     6-21-2005   116.25—
                     116.36
1371     6-21-2005   Ch. 35, App. A
1372     7-5-2005    157.022
1375     7-19-2005   116.25—
                     116.36
                     71.001—
1379     8-16-2005   71.008,
                     71.999
1381     9-6-2005    Ch. 35, App. A
                     95.01—
1382     9-6-2005    95.06,
                     95.99
1383     9-6-2005    130.10,
                     130.99
1386     11-1-2005   130.10
1389     12-20-2005  50.33
1390     12-20-2005  Ch. 35, App. A
1391     1-3-2006    113.056
1392     2-7-2006    Ch. 35, App. A
1400     9-19-2006   118.047
1404     11-21-2006  153.29
                     71.035—
1405     1-2-2007    71.040,
                     71.999
1406     1-7-2007    34.01—
                     34.12
1407     2-6-2007    157.022
1408     2-20-2007   72.02
1410     3-6-2007    34.02
1416     5-1-2007    72.02
1417     6-5-2007    119.03
                     117.02,
1421     8-21-2007   117.05,
                     117.06
1427     3-18-2008   Ch. 35, App. A
1429     4-15-2008   50.65—
                     50.68
                     155.028,
                     155.029,
1431     6-3-2008    155.050,
                     155.073,
                     155.088
                     94.041,
1433     8-19-2008   94.044,
                     94.045
1435     11-18-2008  Ch. 35, App. A
1436     11-18-2008  10.99
1437     12-16-2008  72.99
                     94.004,
1440     4-21-2009   94.040,
                     94.999
1441     4-21-2009   97.03
1444     5-5-2009    Charter §
                     8.4
1446     9-15-2009   118.090—
                     118.099
1447     9-15-2009   Ch. 35, App. A
1448     10-6-2009   Ch. 35, App. A
1449     10-20-2009  116.10
                     90.45—
1450     12-1-2009   90.49,
                     90.99
1455     4-6-2010    33.15—
                     33.25
                     132.15—
1456     4-6-2010    132.21,
                     132.99
1457     5-18-2010   153.28
1458     6-15-2010   Charter §
                     4.8
                     93.060—
1459     8-2-2010    93.063,
                     93.999
1462     12-7-2010   157.056
                     118.070—
1463     1-4-2011    118.077,
                     118.999
1465     1-4-2011    33.01—
                     33.03
1467     3-1-2011    93.078,
                     93.079
1468     3-1-2011    97.03
                     112.01—
                     112.06,
1476     8-1-2011    112.20—
                     112.27,
                     112.99
                     154.001—
                     154.014,
                     154.025,
                     154.026,
                     154.040—
                     154.043,
                     154.055—
                     154.059,
                     154.070,
1475     11-1-2011   154.071,
                     154.085—
                     154.087,
                     154.100—
                     154.102,
                     154.115—
                     154.117,
                     154.130—
                     154.133,
                     154.999
1479     2-6-2012    157.096,
                     157.100
1480     2-6-2012    157.058
1483     4-2-2012    157.051
1484     4-2-2012    30.01
                     Charter §§
1485     4-17-2012   4.6,
                     4.7
1487     8-1-2012    157.002
1486     10-16-2012  35.05,
                     Ch. 35, App. A
1491     1-8-2013    157.002,
                     157.053
1492     1-22-2013   91.25
1493     1-22-2013   Ch. 35, App. A
1494     4-16-2013   32.085—
                     32.087
1496     4-16-2013   116.30,
                     116.35
1500     5-21-2013   35.05,
                     Ch. 35, App. A
1501     6-4-2013    157.053
1502     7-2-2013    118.115—
                     118.124
1503     7-2-2013    Ch. 35, App. A
1504     7-2-2013    157.002,
                     157.021
1512     5-20-2014   32.001
1513     6-3-2014    150.015
1518     2-17-2015   157.002,
                     157.041
1519     3-3-2015    52.25—
                     52.33
1520     4-7-2015    Adopting Ordinance
                     90.60—
1521     4-7-2015    90.62,
                     90.99
1523     5-5-2015    32.022
1524     3-3-2015    94.079
1525     5-5-2015    94.060
1526     8-3-2015    132.01
                     52.02,
1527     8-18-2015   52.03,
                     52.05,
                     52.06
1529     11-2-2015   115.22
1531     12-1-2015   Ch. 35, App. A
1532     12-1-2015   94.079
1533     12-1-2015   93.004
1534     12-15-2015  52.03
1536     4-5-2016    Ch. 35, App. A
1538     5-3-2016    94.125—
                     94.153
1540     7-5-2015    32.001
1542     9-6-2016    157.059
                     157.002,
1543     9-20-2016   157.021,
                     157.022,
                     157.023
1544     10-4-2016   32.004
1545     10-18-2016  113.060—
                     113.065
1546     10-18-2016  157.002,
                     157.022
1547     11-15-2016  Ch. 35, App. A
1548     11-15-2016  Ch. 35, App. A,
                     113.065
1550     12-20-2016  Ch. 35, App. A
1552     1-3-2017    32.003
1553     1-3-2017    32.003
1554     1-3-2017    95.06
1555     2-7-2017    Ch. 35, App. A
                     97.01—
                     97.05,
                     97.20—
1556     1-3-2017    97.30,
                     97.45—
                     97.47,
                     97.99
1557     3-7-2017    157.053
1559     4-4-2017    Ch. 35, App. A
1569     6-6-2017    113.079
1571     9-5-2017    32.020
1572     10-17-2017  91.02
1573     12-19-2017  Ch. 35, App. A
1574     2-5-2018    157.028
1575     3-6-2018    94.095
1577     4-3-2018    32.001
1578     4-3-2018    157.002,
                     157.0445
1582     6-5-2018    120.09
1583     6-5-2018    Ch. 35, App. A
1588     12-4-2018   Ch. 35, App. A
1592     8-7-2019    Ch. 35, App. A
                     114.01—
1593     9-17-2019   114.10,
                     114.99 
                     120.01—
1594     8-20-2019   120.11,
                     120.99
1595     8-20-2019   157.028
                     157.002,
1596     9-3-2019    157.020,
                     157.060
1599     12-17-2019  94.005
1602     1-21-2020   Ch. 35, App. A
1605     4-21-2020   Adopting Ordinance
                     72.02,
1612     12-15-2020  72.04,
                     72.99
1613     12-15-2020  Ch. 35, App. A
1614     3-16-2021   Ch. 35, App. A
1615     4-20-2021   Adopting Ordinance
1616     5-4-2021    91.41
1618     5-18-2021   91.02
1619     5-18-2021   113.052
1620     7-6-2021    90.14
1621     8-2-2021    72.02
1623     9-7-2021    32.001
1625     12-21-2021  Ch. 35, App. A
1630     4-5-2022    30.01
1631     4-5-2022    121.01—
                     121.09
1632     4-5-2022    Ch. 35, App. A
1633     5-3-2022    Adopting Ordinance
                     52.26,
                     52.28,
1638     9-20-2022   52.29,
                     52.31,
                     90.11
1640     12-20-2022  Ch. 35, App. A
1644     3-21-2023   Ch. 35, App. A
1652     8-15-2023   93.030
1655     9-19-2023   133.02
1658     10-3-2023   Adopting Ordinance
1659     12-5-2023   Ch. 35, App. A
1662     8-7-2024    91.01
1664     11-19-2024  52.01—
                     52.10
1665     11-19-2024  94.079
                     122.01—
1666     12-3-2024   122.05,
                     122.99
                    
 
 
