RANDOLPH MN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through June 13, 2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of Code
   
10.02   Rules of Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to Future Ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to Other Sections
   
10.08   Reference to Offices
   
10.09   Errors and Omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable Time
   
10.11   Ordinances Repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances Unaffected
   
10.13   Effective Date of Ordinances
   
10.14   Repeal or Modification of Ordinance
   
10.15   Ordinances Which Amend or Supplement Code
   
10.16   Preservation of Penalties, Offenses, Rights and Liabilities
   
10.17   Copies of Code
   
10.18   Interpretation
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.99   General Penalty and Enforcement
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the City, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“City Code,” for which designation “Code of Ordinances,” “Codified Ordinances”
or “Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the Code.
   (B)   All references to Codes, Titles, Chapters, and Sections are to the
components of the Code unless otherwise specified. Sections may be referred to
and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§ 10.01.”
Headings and captions used in this Code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this Code as those governing the interpretation of
State law.
   (B)   Specific Rules of Interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this City shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by Assistants. When a statute, Code provision or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy may do as the
principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by
an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; Singular and Plural; Tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this Code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General Rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Randolph as
presently established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal
actions at a future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used
to refer to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This City Code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. The county or counties in which the City is located.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this City unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, co- partnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   STATE. The State of Minnesota.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this Code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this Code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This Code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this Code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this Code.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this Code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.13 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.14 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this Code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
Code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this Code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This Code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this Code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this Code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this Code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.17 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this Code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk
for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.18 INTERPRETATION.
   References in this Code to Minnesota Statutes are to the most current
Minnesota Statutes and Laws of Minnesota, unless otherwise provided in this
Code. References in this Code to rules and regulations of State agencies, codes
and ordinances of other municipalities are those documents in effect upon the
adoption of this Code, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any Licensed Peace Officer or other person authorized by the City
shall have the authority to enforce any provision of this Code.
   (B)   Any City official or employee designated by this Code or the City
Council who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this Code may, with
the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident
of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this Code.
   (C)   Inspection of Buildings and Premises.
      (1)   General Rule. For the purpose of safeguarding the health and safety
of the general public and of the occupants of all buildings or to determine
compliance with the Code, an order or a permit or license, it is the duty of
any authorized officer to conduct inspections to determine the condition of the
buildings and premises located within the City. For the purpose of making the
inspection, the authorized officer is authorized to enter, examine and survey
the building or premises at all reasonable times.
      (2)   Notice. Prior to making the inspection, the authorized officer will
inform the occupants of the building or premises to be inspected of the date
and time of the inspection by personal service or regular mail postmarked not
less than 72 hours prior to the time the inspection is made.
      (3)   Access. After the written notice has been given, the owner,
occupant or operator of the building must give the authorized officer free
access to the building and its premises, for the purpose of inspection,
examination or survey, provided that the inspection, examination or survey must
not have for its purpose the harassment of the owner or occupant and the
inspection, examination or survey is made so as to cause the least amount of
inconvenience to the owner or occupant.
      (4)   Emergency Access. The authorized officer must be allowed immediate
entry:
         (a)    At any time when in the opinion of the authorized officer an
actual emergency tending to create an immediate danger to public health and
safety exists; or
         (b)    At any time when the inspection, examination or survey may be
requested by the owner or occupant.
   (D)   Application for search warrant. Upon a refusal of any owner or
occupant to permit an authorized officer access to a dwelling, dwelling unit or
premises to make an inspection, and upon a belief of probable cause that the
dwelling, dwelling unit or premises does not conform to the requirements of
this Code, the authorized officer may make application to the appropriate court
for an order or warrant directing the inspection and search of the dwelling,
dwelling unit or premises for its conformity to the requirements of this Code,
and any evidence or information from the inspection or search may be used in
any court proceedings.
   (E)   Interference with Official Duties. It is unlawful for any person to
prevent, delay or interfere with representatives of the City while they are
engaged in the performance of his or her duties.
   (F)   Reinspection Fees. The City may charge a reinspection fee for
violations of any ordinance related to buildings and premises. Failure to pay
the reinspection fee may result in it being assessed against the property as
provided in Minn. Stat. § 429.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
Code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this Code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 631.48, in either the case of a misdemeanor
or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of prosecution may be added. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs
or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the City to perform any
official duty imposed by this Code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this Code,
the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   ABANDONED PROPERTY
      
34.   FEES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   City Council Meetings
   
30.02   Presiding Officer
   
30.03   Minutes
   
30.04   Order of Business
   
30.05   Voting
   
30.06   Ordinance, Resolutions, Motions, Petitions and Communications
   
30.07   Suspension or Amendment of Rules
   
30.08   Compensation of Mayor and Council Members
   
30.09   Compensation of Employees
   
30.10   Quorum for Conducting Business
   
30.11   Fees and Charges
   
30.12   Application of State Laws
   
30.13   Criminal History Background Information
CHAPTER 31: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
31.01   Establishment of the Planning Commission
   
31.02   Composition
   
31.03   Organization, Meetings, Minutes and Expenditures
   
31.04   Powers and Duties; Comprehensive Plan
Park and Recreation Board
   
31.20   Park and Recreation Board
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Policy and Purpose
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Establishment of Emergency Management Organization
   
32.04   Powers and Duties of Director
   
32.05   Local Emergencies
   
32.06   Emergency Regulations
   
32.07   Emergency Management a Government Function
CHAPTER 33: ABANDONED PROPERTY
Section
   
33.01   Disposition of Abandoned Property
CHAPTER 34: FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Purpose, Scope
   
34.02   Fee Schedule
   
34.03   Complete Applications
   
34.04   Payment of Fees and Escrows
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held
at least once each month, at a date, time and place as established by the City
Council. Any regular meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next
following business day at the same time and place. All meetings, including
special and adjourned meetings, shall be held in the City Hall unless the City
Council decides otherwise at a prior meeting, or meeting in the City Hall is
impossible.
   (B)   Special Meetings. The Mayor or any two members of the City Council may
call a special meeting of the City Council. Pursuant to Minn. Stat. Ch. 13D,
written notice of any special meeting shall be posted giving the date, time,
place and purpose of the meeting at least three days before the meeting.
Written notice shall be mailed at least three days before the meeting to anyone
who has filed a written request for notice of special meetings. In calculating
the three days, if the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday,
the next regular business day shall be counted as the third day.
   (C)   Emergency Meetings. An emergency meeting is a special meeting that is
called because of circumstances that in the judgment of the public body,
require immediate consideration of the public body. Notice shall be given to
each member of the public body by any method. The public body shall make a good
faith effort to notify each news medium that has filed a written request for
notice. Notice shall include the subject of the meeting. Posted or published
notice is not required.
   (D)   Initial Meeting. At the first regular City Council meeting in January
of each year, the City Council shall:
      (1)    Designate the Depositories of City funds;
      (2)    Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)    Choose one of the Council Members as Acting Mayor, who shall
perform the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor
from the City or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a
successor has been appointed and qualifies;
      (4)    Appoint officers and employees and members of departments, boards,
commissions and committees as may be necessary;
      (5)    Establish and appoint Council Members to those City Council
committees as are deemed appropriate for the efficient and orderly management
of the City.
   (E)   Public Meetings. All City Council meetings, including special,
emergency and adjourned meetings and meetings of City Council committees, as
well as meetings of City Commissions and Boards, shall be conducted in
accordance with the Minnesota Open Meeting Law, Minn. Stat. Ch. 13D.
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who Presides. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City
Council. In the absence of the Mayor, the Acting Mayor shall preside. In the
absence of both, the City Clerk shall call the meeting to order and shall
preside until the Council Members present at the meeting choose one of their
members to act temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce any
rules of procedure adopted by the City Council, and determine without debate,
subject to the final decision of the City Council on appeal, all questions of
procedure and order.
   (C)   Appeal Procedure. Any member may appeal to the City Council a ruling
of the presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once
solely on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain the
ruling, but no other Council Member shall participate in the discussion. The
appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present, including the presiding officer.
§ 30.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Generally. Minutes of each City Council meeting shall be kept by the
City Clerk or, in the City Clerk’s absence, by the City Treasurer. In the
absence of both, the presiding officer shall appoint a secretary pro tem.
Ordinances, resolutions and claims need not be recorded in full in the minutes
if they appear in other permanent records of the City Clerk and can be
accurately identified from the description given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to writing, and
shall be signed by the City Clerk. At the next regular City Council meeting
following the delivery, approval of the minutes shall be considered by the City
Council.
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order Established. Each meeting of the City Council shall convene at
the time and place appointed therefor. City Council business shall be conducted
in the following order unless varied by the presiding officer or by-laws or
other procedures adopted by Council resolution:
      (1)   Call to order.
      (2)   Roll call.
      (3)   Adopt agenda.
      (4)   Citizen Comments/Open Forum.
      (5)   Approval of Minutes.
      (6)   Approval of Treasurer’s Report.
      (7)   Approval to Pay Bills.
      (8)   Old Business.
      (9)   New Business.
      (10)   Adjourn.
§ 30.05 VOTING.
   The votes of the Council Members on any question may be taken in any manner
which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes of the
Council Members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote
of each Council Member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except
for payments of judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statute.
§ 30.06 ORDINANCE, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   Signing and Publication Proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed by the
City Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk, and
filed by the City Clerk in the ordinance or resolution book. Proof of
publication of every ordinance shall be attached and filed with the ordinance.
§ 30.07 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended only by a two-thirds vote of the members
present and voting.
§ 30.08 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   Pursuant to the authority granted in Minn. Stat. § 415.11, beginning January
1, 2023, the salary of the Mayor shall be $2,646.00 per year, the salary of
each City Council member including the City Clerk as a voting member of the
Council shall be $1,323.00 per year.
§ 30.09 COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES.
   Employees including the City Clerk and Treasurer, or any other employees
authorized by the City Council shall be compensated at a rate as established by
the City Council.
§ 30.10 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire City Council,
including the Mayor. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the City Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the members present shall adjourn or recess
the City Council by a majority vote of those present.
§ 30.11 FEES AND CHARGES.
   The fees and charges authorized by this Code are contained in
Chapter 34.
§ 30.12 APPLICATION OF STATE LAWS.
   The provisions of the Government Data Practices Act, Minn. Stat. Ch. 13, the
Open Meeting Law, Minn. Stat. § 13D, and the laws relating to Gifts to Local
Officials, Minn. Stat. § 471.895, apply to the City Council and all boards and
commissions of this City and their members.
§ 30.13 CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND INFORMATION.
   (A)   Applicants for City Employment.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota’s Computerized
Criminal History information for specified non-criminal purposes of employment
background checks for the positions described in division (2) below.
      (2)   Criminal History Employment Background Investigations. Pursuant to
Minn. Stat. § 364.021, with the exception of the applicants for employment
listed in Minn. Stat. § 364.09, the City shall not inquire into or consider the
criminal record or history of an applicant for public employment until the
applicant has been selected for an interview by the City or, if there is not an
interview, before a conditional offer of employment is made to the applicant.
         (a)    The City Police Department or County Sheriff’s Department is
hereby required, as the exclusive entity within the City to do a criminal
history background investigation for all applicants for regular part-time or
full-time positions that work with children or vulnerable adults, unless the
City’s hiring authority concludes that a background investigation is not
needed:
         (b)    In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen employment applicants, the Police Department or County
Sheriff’s Department is authorized to access data maintained in the Minnesota
Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions Computerized Criminal History information
system in accordance with BCA policy. Any data that is accessed and acquired
shall be maintained at the Police Department or County Sheriff’s Department
under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or his or her
designee. The data may be released by the Police Department or County Sheriff’s
Department to the hiring authority, including the City Council, the City Clerk
or other City staff involved in the hiring process.
      (3)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Police Department or County Sheriff’s Department by written
consent to undertake the investigation. The written consent must fully comply
with the provisions of Minn. Stat. § 13, regarding the collection, maintenance
and use of the information. Except for the positions set forth in Minn. Stat. §
364.09, the City will not reject an applicant for employment on the basis of
the applicant’s prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the
position of employment sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross
misdemeanor, or misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the City rejects the
applicant’s request on this basis, the City shall notify the applicant in
writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial.
         (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
Minn. Stat. § 364.06.
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment.
         (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
   (B)   Applicants for City Licenses.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota’s Computerized
Criminal History information for specified non-criminal purposes of licensing
background checks.
      (2)   Criminal History License Background Investigations. The Police
Department or County Sheriff’s Department is hereby required, as the exclusive
entity within the City, to do a criminal history background investigation on
the applicants and their employees for the following licenses or permits within
the City:
         (a)   Liquor,
Chapter 112
         (b)   Tobacco,
Chapter 113 
         (c)   Peddlers,
Chapter 114 
         (d)   Gambling,
Chapter 115
      (3)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen license or permit applicants, the Police Department or Sheriff
Department is authorized to access data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of
Criminal Apprehensions Computerized Criminal History information system in
accordance with BCA policy. Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be
maintained at the Police Department or Sheriff’s Department under the care and
custody of the chief law enforcement official or his or her designee. The
Computerized Criminal History data may be released by the Police Department to
the licensing authority, including the City Council, the City Clerk or other
City staff involved in the license approval process.
      (4)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Police Department or Sheriff’s Department by written consent to
undertake the investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the
provisions of Minn. Stat. § 13 regarding the collection, maintenance and use of
the information. Except for the positions set forth in Minn. Stat. § 364.09,
the City will not reject an applicant for a license on the basis of the
applicant’s prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the
license sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or
misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the City rejects the applicant’s request
on this basis, the City shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial.
         (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
Minn. Stat. § 364.06.
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license.
         (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
CHAPTER 31: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The City hereby establishes a Planning Commission, which shall be the City
planning agency authorized by Minn. Stat. § 462.354 Subd. 1.
§ 31.02 COMPOSITION.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members from the resident
population of the City, appointed by the City Council. The City Council shall
be the Planning Commission whose terms shall be coterminous with their terms on
the City Council.
§ 31.03 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS, MINUTES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be the Chairperson, the Acting Mayor shall be the
Vice-Chairperson and the City Clerk shall be the Secretary. The Planning
Commission may create and fill other offices as it may determine is necessary.
   (B)   The City Council shall conduct the activities of the Planning
Commission at regular City Council meetings as needed. Special meetings may be
called at any time by the Chairperson, or in the case of the Chairperson’s
absence, by the Vice-Chairperson.
   (C)   Written minutes of meetings shall be kept and filed with the City
Clerk.
   (D)   No expenditures by the Planning Commission shall be made unless and
until authorized for the purpose by the City Council.
§ 31.04 POWERS AND DUTIES; COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   Generally. The Planning Commission shall have the powers and duties
given to city planning agencies generally by law, including the authority to
conduct public hearings. For all actions contained in (B) – (K), when
considering land use applications described herein, the City Council shall be
deemed to be acting as the Planning Commission and need not separately convene
as the Planning Commission, nor shall the City Council be required to refer
matters to the City Council. The provisions requiring the Planning Commission
to make recommendations to the City Council only apply when the Planning
Commission is not the City Council. The City Council, acting as the Planning
Commission, may hold the public hearing and take action on all planning
applications.
   (B)   Comprehensive Plan. It shall be the purpose of the Planning Commission
to prepare and adopt a comprehensive plan for the physical development of the
City, including proposed public buildings, street arrangements and
improvements, efficient design of major thoroughfares for moving of traffic,
parking facilities, public utilities services, parks and playgrounds, a general
land use plan and other matters relating to the physical development of the
City. This plan may be prepared in sections, each of which shall relate to a
comprehensive plan program. After the City Council has adopted the
comprehensive plan, the Planning Commission shall periodically, but at least
every ten years, update the comprehensive plan and any ordinances or programs
implementing the plan. Upon the adoption of a comprehensive plan or any section
thereof, the Planning Commission shall recommend to the City Council reasonable
and practical means for putting into effect the plan or section thereof in
order that it will serve as a pattern and guide for the orderly physical
development of the City and as a basis for judging the timely disbursements of
funds to implement the objective. Means of effectuating the plan shall, among
other things, consist of a zoning ordinance, subdivision regulations, capital
improvement programming and technical review, and recommendations of matters
referred to the Planning Commission by the City Council.
   (C)   Zoning Ordinance. Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 462.357, Subd. 4, the
Planning Commission shall review all proposed amendments to the zoning
ordinance, conduct public hearings as directed by the City Council or City
policy, and make recommendations to the City Council concerning zoning
ordinance amendments and their relation to the city comprehensive plan and
other land use controls. The Planning Commission shall report recommendations
to the City Council for action.
   (D)   Conditional Permits. The Planning Commission may make recommendations
on all requests for a conditional use permit under the terms of the zoning
ordinance and may conduct public hearings as directed by the City Council or
City policy. The Planning Commission shall report its recommendations to the
City Council for action.
   (E)   Interim Use Permits. The Planning Commission may make recommendations
on all requests for an interim use permit under the terms of the zoning
ordinance and conduct public hearings as directed by the City Council or City
policy. The Planning Commission shall report its recommendations to the City
Council for action.
   (F)   Subdivision Regulations. The Planning Commission may make
recommendations in relation to the subdividing of land as prescribed by the
ordinance and may conduct public hearings as directed by the City Council or
City policy. The Planning Commission shall report its recommendations to the
City Council for action.
   (G)   Variances. The Planning Commission may make recommendations on all
requests for any variances under the terms of the zoning ordinance and conduct
public hearings as directed by the City Council or City policy. The Planning
Commission shall report its recommendations to the City Council, which shall
have the powers of a Board of Appeals and Adjustments as provided for in Minn.
Stat. § 462.357, Subd. 6 for its decision.
   (H)   Official Map. Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 462.359 Subd. 2, after
adoption of a major thoroughfare plan and community facilities plan (which may
be contained in the City comprehensive plan or adopted separately), the
Planning Commission, for the purpose of carrying out the policies of the major
thoroughfare plan and community facilities plan, may prepare and recommend to
the governing body a proposed official map covering the entire municipality or
any portion thereof. The official map or maps shall be prepared in sufficient
detail to permit establishment of the future acquisition lines on the ground.
In unplatted areas, a minimum of a centerline survey shall have been made prior
to the preparation of the final draft of the official map. The accuracy of the
future acquisition lines shown on the official map shall be attested to by a
licensed surveyor.
   (I)   Purchase and Sale of Real Property. Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 462.356,
Subd. 2, after adoption of a comprehensive plan, if any, the Planning
Commission shall review all proposed acquisitions or disposals of publicly
owned interests in real property within the City by the municipality, or any
special district or any agency thereof, or any other political subdivision
having jurisdiction within the city, and make findings as to the compliance of
the proposed acquisition or disposal of real property with the comprehensive
municipal plan. The City Council may by resolution adopted by two-thirds vote
dispense with the requirements of this section when in its judgement it finds
that the proposed acquisition or disposal of real property has no relationship
to the comprehensive municipal plan.
   (J)   Capital Improvements. Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 462.356, Subd. 2,
after adoption of a comprehensive plan, if any, the Planning Commission shall
review all proposed capital improvements within the City by the municipality,
or any special district or any agency thereof, or any other political
subdivision having jurisdiction within the municipality, and make findings, as
to the compliance of the proposed capital improvement with the comprehensive
municipal plan. The City Council may by resolution adopted by two-thirds vote
dispense with the requirements of this section when in its judgment it finds
that the proposed acquisition or disposal of real property has no relationship
to the comprehensive municipal plan.
   (K)   Comprehensive Plan Amendments. Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 462.355,
Subds. 2 and 3, after adoption of a comprehensive plan, the Planning Commission
shall review all proposed amendments to the comprehensive plan, hold at least
one public hearing, and make recommendations to the City Council on
comprehensive plan amendments and their relation to the City comprehensive plan
and other land use controls. The Planning Commission shall report its
recommendations to the City Council for action.
PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 31.20 PARK AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of two members from the resident population of
the City, be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council. The
appointees shall be appointed to serve staggered terms of three years, except
as noted below, commencing on the first day of January in the year of
appointment. Upon expiration of a term, the appointee shall continue until
reappointed or a successor is appointed. Absences from any three meetings in a
year, unless excused in advance by the Chair, constitutes a vacancy. In the
event of any vacancy, the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall
appoint a person to complete the unexpired term.
   (B)   Organization, Meetings, Minutes of Meetings.
      (1)   At the first regular meeting in January, the Board shall elect a
Chairperson and a Vice- Chairperson from among its appointed members, each for
a term of one year. The Board may create and fill other offices as it may
determine.
      (2)   The Board shall hold at least one meeting each year at the time and
place as they may fix by resolution. Special meetings may be called at any time
by the Chairperson, or in the case of the Chairperson’s absence, by the Vice-
Chairperson.
      (3)   Written minutes of meetings shall be kept and filed with the City
Clerk.
      (4)   No expenditures by the Board shall be made unless and until
authorized for the purpose by the City Council.
   (C)   The Board will consult with the City Council and the Planning
Commission and shall be advisory to the City Council in matters relating to
park lands, park facilities, park and recreation programs and finances. The
Board may meet with various groups on matters relating to park and recreation
activities.
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 32.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to ensure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this City, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a City emergency management organization responsible for
City planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this City and other
political subdivisions of this State and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of Minn. Stat. § 12.25, which requires
that each political subdivision of the State shall establish a local
organization for emergency management.
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. Emergency
management includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in City-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from City
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
City- level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides City liaison and coordination with Federal, State, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements
§ 32.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the City government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall be paid his or her necessary expenses.
The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration and operation of the emergency preparedness organization,
subject to the direction and control of the Council. The emergency management
organization shall conform to and be consistent with, where applicable, all
State and Federal requirements, including the National Incident Management
System framework found at 44 CFR part 201.
§ 32.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the City on any regional or State
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the State for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the City as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with State and Federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the City and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all City agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the City to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner. The Director shall coordinate the emergency
management activities of the City to the end that they shall be consistent and
fully integrated with the emergency plans of the Federal government and the
State, and correlated with emergency plans of the county and other political
subdivisions within the State.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the City to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all City
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the City’s emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the City and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular City department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the State emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the City and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by Minn. Stat. § 12.25.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 32.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
§ 32.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk. A copy shall be
kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours. Notice
of the existence of these regulations and their availability for inspection at
the City Clerk’s Office shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the City
Hall or other headquarters of the City or at other places in the affected area
as the Council shall designate in the resolution. By resolution, the Council
may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the City is, under the provisions of
Minn. Stat. § 12.37, and notwithstanding any statutory or Charter provision to
the contrary, empowered, through its Council, acting within or without the
corporate limits of the City, to enter into contracts and incur obligations
necessary to combat the disaster by protecting the health and safety of persons
and property and providing emergency assistance to the victims of a disaster.
The City may exercise these powers in the light of the exigencies of the
disaster without compliance with the time-consuming procedures and formalities
prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of public work, entering into
contracts, incurring obligations, employment of temporary workers, entering
rental equipment agreements, purchase of supplies and materials, limitations
upon tax levies, and the appropriation and expenditure of public funds,
including, but not limited to, publication of resolutions, publication of calls
for bids, provisions of personnel laws and rules, provisions relating to low
bids, and requirement for bids.
§ 32.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he would otherwise
be entitled under this resolution or under the worker’s compensation law, or
under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
CHAPTER 33: ABANDONED PROPERTY
§ 33.01 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Procedure. Except for abandoned and junked vehicles, all property
lawfully coming into possession of the City shall be disposed of as provided in
this section which is adopted pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 471.195. Abandoned and
junked vehicles shall be disposed of according to the procedures of Section
92.18 of this Code.
   (B)   Storage. The department of the City acquiring possession of the
property shall arrange for its storage. If City facilities are unavailable or
inadequate, the department may arrange for storage at a privately-owned
facility.
   (C)   Claim by Owner. The owner may claim the property by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the City any storage or maintenance
costs incurred by it. A receipt for the property shall be obtained upon release
to the owner.
   (D)   Disposition of Property. Property held by the city and not claimed by
the true owner within 60 days of collection will be deemed abandoned. The City
may dispose of abandoned property in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Sell the property at a public sale following ten days published
notice in the city’s official newspaper. Any property not purchased at a public
sale may then be disposed of by the City in any reasonable manner; or
      (2)   Return the property or funds to its finder; or
      (3)   Convert usable property to City use; or
      (4)   Donate the property to a tax-exempt, non-profit organization; or
      (5)   Scrap unusable property or property of little or no value.
   (E)   Disposition of Proceeds. The proceeds of the sale shall be placed in
the general fund of the City. If the former owner makes application and
furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the sale, the
former owner shall be paid the proceeds of the sale of the property less the
costs of storage and the proportionate part of the cost of published notice and
other costs of the sale.
CHAPTER 34: FEES
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 PURPOSE, SCOPE.
   The purpose of this Chapter is to establish the official fee structure for
the City of Randolph for application fees, including the reimbursement of
administrative expenses, operating expenses, and out of pocket expenses for
services (including, but not limited to attorneys’ fees, engineers’ fees,
planners’ fees and other consultants fees incurred by the City in processing
the applicant’s request) whether or not included in separate ordinances. When a
fee structure is conflicting in one or more ordinances, the most recently
adopted fee schedule shall prevail.
§ 34.02 FEE SCHEDULE.
   PLANNING APPLICATIONS
 Non-refundable Fee Escrow Code Section Reference
                 Non-refundable Fee Escrow Code Section Reference
Variance         $500               $1200  152.56
Conditional Use  $500               $1200  152.54
Permit
Interim Use      $500               $1200  152.55
Permit
Comprehensive    $500               $1200  Minn. Stat. § 462.355 subds. 2 and
Plan Amendment                             3
Zoning Ordinance $500               $1200  152.58
Amendment
Minor
Subdivision/     $500               $1200  153.04
Cluster
Preliminary Plat $500               $2000  153.03
Final Plat       $500               $2000  153.03
Environmental                      $5000   
Reviews
Special Planning
Commission/      $500 per meeting          
City Council
Meetings
 
OTHER FEES
 Non-refundable Fee Code Section Reference
                                                                                Non-       Code
                                                                                refundable Section
                                                                                Fee        Reference
                                                                                Fee issued
                                                                                and
                                                                                collected
Fire permit fee                                                                 by         132.05
                                                                                Randolph-
                                                                                Hampton
                                                                                Fire
                                                                                District
Heavy load Permit                                                               $67/trip   70.02(D)
Document Recording fee                                                          $100 per    
                                                                                document
Document Search                                                                 $30 per     
                                                                                hour
Document Reproduction                                                           $30 per     
                                                                                hour
Additional inspections                                                          $30/       10.20 (F)
                                                                                inspection
                                                                                $60/hour
After Hours                                                                     with 1      
                                                                                hour
                                                                                minimum
Small wireless facility permit                                                  $500       131.03 -
                                                                                           131.04
Working without a Permit Inspection                                             Double     131.12 (B)
                                                                                Permit fee
Dangerous Dog Registration                                                      $500       91.11 (D)
Potentially Dangerous Dog Registration                                          $100       91.11 (D)
Tobacco license violation – 1st violation                                     $300       113.12 –
                                                                                           113.13
Tobacco license violation – 2nd violation                                     $600       113.12 –
                                                                                           113.13
Tobacco license violation – 3rd and subsequent violations within 36 months of $1,000     113.12 –
initial violation                                                                          113.13
 
BUILDING PERMITS
Work Valuation Permit Fee
Work Valuation        Permit Fee
$0 - $500             $29.50
$501 - $2000          $28 for the first $500 + $3.70/additional $100
$2001 - $25,000       $83.50 for the first $2000 + $16.55/additional $1000
$25,001 - $50,000     $464.15 for the first $25,000 + $12/additional $1000
$50,001 - $100,000    $764.15 for the first $50,000 + $8.45/additional $1000
$100,001 - $500,000   $1,186.65 for the first $100,000 + $6.75/additional $1000
$500,001 - $1,000,000 $3,886.65 for the first $500,000 + $5.50/additional $1000
$1,000,001 and higher $6,636.65 for the first $1,000,000 + $4.50/additional
                      $1000
Plan Review Fee       65% of permit
 
BUILDING REPAIR/MAINTENANCE/OTHER
 
Roofing                      $126 + State Surcharge
Siding                       $126 + State Surcharge
Windows                      $126 + State Surcharge
Above Ground Pool >5000 gal. $10 + State Surcharge
In-ground Pool               Valuation table above + State Surcharge
 
STATE SURCHARGE
Work Valuation Surcharge
Work Valuation          Surcharge
$1,000,000 or less      (.0005) X the valuation
$1,000,000 - $2,000,000 (.0004) X the valuation + $500
$2,000,000 - $3,000,000 (.0003) X the valuation + $900
$3,000,000 - $4,000,000 (.0002) X the valuation + $1200
$4,000,000 - $5,000,000 (.0001) X the valuation + $1400
$5,000,000 and higher   (.00005) X the valuation + $1500
Flat Fee                The greater of $5 or (.0005) X Permit Fee
 
PLUMBING PERMITS
 
Permit Fee      The greater of 1% of work valuation or $75
Water Heater    $75 + State Surcharge
Plan Review Fee 65% of permit fee
State Surcharge The greater of $5 or (.0005) X Permit Fee
 
MECHANICAL PERMITS
 
Permit Fee      The greater of 1% of work valuation or $75
Plan Review Fee 65% of permit fee
State Surcharge The greater of $5 or (.0005) X Permit Fee
 
DEMOLITION PERMITS
 
Permit Fee      The greater of 1% of work valuation or $75
Plan Review Fee 65% of permit fee
State Surcharge The greater of $5 or (.0005) X Permit Fee
 
SIGN PERMITS
 
                          Fee                           Code Section Reference
Temporary Sign Permit Fee $10 + State Surcharge         152.43(B)
Permanent Sign Permit Fee Valuation table above + State 152.43(B)
                          Surcharge
 
FENCE PERMITS
 
                           Fee                         Code Section Reference
Fences/Walls in excess of 6 Valuation table above +     152.45,
feet                        State Surcharge             152.53
Fences/Walls 6 feet or less No Fee & No permit required 152.45 (A)
 
EXCAVATION PERMITS
 
                          Non-refundable Fee            Code Section Reference
Excavation/Grading Permit $300                          150.01,
                                                        131.03
Repair and general work   $250                           
Hole excavation           $65                            
Directional boring        $250                           
                          $250 plus $1/lineal foot over
Trench plow               100 lineal feet and $0.25/     
                          lineal foot over 5000 lineal
                          feet
 
OBSTRUCTION PERMITS
 Non-refundable Fee Code Section Reference
                     Non-refundable Fee             Code Section Reference
Obstruction Permits  $250/incident                  131.03
Delay Permit         $200 plus $100/week pro- rated 131.03(C)
Permit Extension     $50 plus $25/week pro-rated    131.03(B),
                                                    131.08(C)
Degradation Fee      $300 plus actual costs if City 131.07 (F)
                     repairs
Unauthorized Work    Double Permit Fee (unless work 131.12
                     deemed an emergency)
Road Closure         $250/incident                   
Local Utility Bond   $1500 minimum                   
Large Utility Bond   $500,000 minimum                
Large Utility Escrow 1% of contract value in City    
 
WATER FEES
 Fee Code Section Reference
                          Fee                            Code Section Reference
Water Access Charge (WAC) $5200                          52.33
Water Meter               $200                           52.35
                          First 1,000 gallons: $0.01451/
Water rate for quarterly  gallon                         52.50,
billing                   Excess gallons over 1,000:     52.53
                          $0.00439/gallon
Water tower Repair Fund   $20.00/quarter                  
Water Meter Maintenance   $2.50/quarter                  52.33 (B)
State Surcharge           $2.43/quarter                   
                          $25 permit fee
Use of water from hydrant $75 Installation of meter fee  52.08
permit                    $ 0.015/gallon, with minimum
                          fee of $15
Disconnection permit fee  $25                            52.29
 
LICENSE FEES
 Fee Code Section Reference
                       Fee                   Code Section Reference
                       On sale: $1,300/year  112.23,
                                             112.22 (E)
                       Off sale:$100/year    112.23,
                                             112.22 (D) – cannot exceed $240
                       Sunday sales: $200    112.23,
                                            112.22 (F) – cannot exceed $200
                      Combination on sale/  112.23,
                      off sale: $1,300/year 112.22 (G)
                      Temporary On sale:    112.23,
Liquor licenses        $50/day               112.22 (H)
                       Wine, on sale: $650/  112.23,
                       year                  112.22 (I)
                       Brew Pub On Sale:     112.23,
                       $650/year             112.22 (N)
                       Brewer Taproom On     112.23,
                       Sale: $650/year       112.22 (Q)
Tobacco license        $50/year              113.06
Bowling, Billiards and $25/year per table    111.01
Pool license
Amusement Devices      $25/year per device   111.03
license
Peddler or Transient   $100/year per person  114.03
Merchant license
Gambling permit/       $0                    115.08
license
Special event permit   $0                    116.03
Background fee or      $0 except gambling    30.13
investigation          premises $100
 
§ 34.03 COMPLETE APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for zoning actions and construction permits shall not be
considered complete until all fees and escrows required in this Ordinance have
been received by the City. No permits will be issued until the fees are paid.
Outstanding debts from previous zoning actions and construction permits must
also be paid in full by an applicant or owner before a new application or
permit request for the same property upon which such prior fees were incurred
will be considered complete.
§ 34.04 PAYMENT OF FEES AND ESCROWS.
   (A)   All applications for any permit or approval shall be signed by the
applicant(s) and all owners of the property to which the request applies. The
applicant(s) and owner(s) shall be deemed jointly and severally liable for the
payment of all fees and escrows required by this chapter. The escrows set forth
in this chapter are minimum estimates only, and actual costs may exceed the
escrow amounts. In the event the City’s administrative expenses, operating
expenses, and out of pocket expenses incurred in processing the applicants’ and
owners’ request exceed the escrow amount deposited, the applicant(s) and
property owner(s) shall remain liable for the difference between the amount of
such costs incurred by the City and the amount of the escrow posted with the
City, regardless of whether the applicants’ and/or property owners’ request is
granted or denied.
   (B)   The owner of any property who commences work on property without first
obtaining a building permit or license where required shall pay twice the
normal permit or license fee set forth in this chapter as well as all
applicable State Surcharges.
   (C)   In the event the applicant or property owner does not reimburse the
City within ten days of billing for the difference between the amount of escrow
deposited and the actual costs the City incurred in processing the applicant
(s)/owners(s) request, the City shall be authorized to certify said
unreimbursed costs to the County Auditor for payment with the owner’s property
taxes pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 366.012. All unused escrow funds will be
returned to the applicant upon completion of processing of the application in
question.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
51.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
52.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
53.   STORM WATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
      
54.   RATES AND CHARGES
CHAPTER 51: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Control of Sewers; Administration of Chapter
   
51.03   Building Sewers; General Requirements
   
51.04   Tampering with Wastewater Facilities
   
51.05   Cost of Repairing or Restoring Sewers
General Regulations
   
51.15   Deposits of Unsanitary Manner Prohibited
   
51.16   Discharge of Wastewater or Other Polluted Waters
   
51.17   Restrictions on Wastewater Disposal Facilities
   
51.18   Installation of Service Connection to Public Sewer
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
51.35   Public Sewer Not Available
   
51.36   Permits
   
51.37   Type, Capacities, Location and Layout
   
51.38   Direct Connection Required
   
51.39   Operation and Maintenance by Owner
   
51.40   Application of Subchapter
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.55   Restrictions on New Connections
   
51.56   Building Sewer Permits
   
51.57   Costs and Expenses
   
51.58   Separate Building Sewers Required
   
51.59   Old Building Sewers; Restrictions on Use
   
51.60   Conformance to State Building and Plumbing Code Requirements
   
51.61   Elevation Below Basement Floor
   
51.62   Surface Runoff or Groundwater Connections Prohibited
   
51.63   Excavations
   
51.64   Licenses
Use of Public Services
   
51.80   Discharges of Unpolluted Water
   
51.81   Discharges of Waters or Wastes
   
51.82   Limited Discharges
   
51.83   Discharges Hazardous to Life or Constitute Public Nuisances
   
51.84   Increasing Use of Process Water
   
51.85   Pretreatment or Flow-Equalizing Facilities
   
51.86   Grease, Oil and Sand Interceptors
   
51.87   Industrial Wastes; Installations
   
51.88   Industrial Wastes; Requirements
   
51.89   Measurements, Tests and Analyses of Waters and Wastes
   
51.90   Protection from Accidental Discharge of Prohibited Materials
   
51.91   Permitting Substance or Matter to Flow or Pass into Public Sewers
   
51.92   Repairing Service Connection
   
51.93   Catch Basin or Waste Traps Required for Motor Vehicle Washing or
Servicing Facilities
   
51.94   Special Agreement and Arrangement
   
51.99   Penalty
User Rate Schedule for Charges
   
51.110   Charges Generally
   
51.111   Purpose
   
51.112   Definitions
   
51.113   Establishment of a Sewer Service Charge System
   
51.114   Determination of Sewer Service Charges
   
51.115   Sewer Service Fund
   
51.116   Administration
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
51.130   Authorized Employees Permitted to Enter All Properties
   
51.131   Authorized Employees Obtaining Information for Industrial Processes
   
51.132   Authorized Employees to Observe Safety Rules
   
51.133   Authorized Employees Permitted to Enter All Property with Easements
CHAPTER 52: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   General Operation
   
52.02   Use of Water Service
   
52.03   Use to Circumvent Chapter Prohibited
   
52.04   Damage to Water System
   
52.05   Connections Beyond City Boundaries
   
52.06   Connection to System Required; Use of Private Wells
   
52.07   Use of Water for Air Conditioning; Permits
   
52.08   Use of Water from Fire Hydrants; Temporary Connections
   
52.09   Water Deficiency, Shut Off and Use Restrictions
Water Regulations
   
52.25   Supply from One Service
   
52.26   Tapping of Mains Restricted
   
52.27   Repairs
   
52.28   Abandoned or Unused Services
   
52.29   Disconnection Permit
   
52.30   Service Pipes
   
52.31   Excavation and Construction Requirements
   
52.32   Connection to Other Water Supplies Restricted
   
52.33   Water Connections; Applications and Charges
   
52.34   Location of Curb Stop Box
   
52.35   Water Meters
Rates and Charges
   
52.50   Water Unit
   
52.51   Rates, Fees and Charges Generally
   
52.52   Water Service Billing; Change of Address
   
52.53   Water Rates
   
52.54   Payment of Charges; Late Payment; Collection
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.70   Supervision by Utilities Superintendent; Licensing
   
52.71   Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
52.72   Discontinuance of Service
   
52.73   Authorized Employees to Turn Water On and Off
   
52.74   Liability for Expense, Loss or Damage
Cross-Reference:
   Assessable Current Services, see § 92.01
CHAPTER 53: STORM WATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
Section
   
53.01   Storm Water Drainage Utility Established
   
53.02   Definition
   
53.03   Determination of Storm Water Drainage Fees
   
53.04   Credits
   
53.05   Exemptions
   
53.06   Fee Payment Procedures
CHAPTER 54: RATES AND CHARGES
Section
   
54.01   Generally
   
54.02   Collection of Charges
   
54.03   Disconnection for Late Payment
   
54.04   Cold Weather Rule
   
54.05   Delinquent Charges
CHAPTER 51: SEWER REGULATIONS
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, being 33 USC 1251 et seq., as amended.
   ADMINISTRATION COSTS. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of
the wastewater treatment works such as billing and associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. This City or its representative thereof.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD5). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° C, expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning three
feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct the facilities.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid and solid wastes resulting from industrial
or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the development,
recovery and processing of natural resources, as distinct from residential or
domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
   (A)   Entities that discharge into a publicly owned wastewater treatment
works liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in industrial or
manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural resources.
These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, latest
edition, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented under one
of the following divisions:
      Division A.   Agriculture, forestry and fishing
      Division B.   Mining
      Division D.   Manufacturing
      Division E.   Transportation, communications, electric, gas, sanitary
sewers
      Division I.   Services
For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be considered to have
the following characteristics: BOD5 - less than 287 mg/l; Suspended solids -
less than 287 mg/l.
   (B)   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the City's wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the City's NPDES or SDS permit. The term
includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the City in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under Section 45 of the Act (33 USC 1345) or
any regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 USC 6901
et seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 USC 7401 et seq.), the Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 USC 2601 et seq.), or more stringent State criteria applicable to the
method of disposal or use employed by the City.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by those treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of those treatment facilities, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the
Act (33 USC 1317(b)).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Sections 402
and 45 of the Act (33 USC 1342 and 33 USC 1345).
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 287 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 287 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the design or
useful life, whichever is longer of the treatment works, and at the level of
performance for which the treatment works were constructed. The term includes
replacement.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than ½-inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which the works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is wastewater.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water, which
may more specifically be defined as follows:
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (3)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (4)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (5)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters
which are not admitted intentionally.
      (6)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, subsurface water, street wash
water, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service, and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users of the City's wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditure of
the sewer service fund will be for operation, maintenance and replacement costs
and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
treatment.
   SLUG. Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including but not
limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to Minn. Stat.
§ 115.07, for a disposal system as defined by Minn. Stat. § 115.01 Subd. 5.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse effects as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of
the Act (33 USC 1317(a)). A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to
any pollutant identified pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act (33 USC 1317
(a)).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the City's wastewater disposal system.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on a user of a treatment works for the user's
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT. The person appointed by the City Council to
supervise the sewer and water systems of the City.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
City for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from that treatment.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
§ 51.02 CONTROL OF SEWERS; ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or other official designated by the City
Council shall have control and general supervision of all public sewers and
service connections in the City, and shall be responsible for administering the
provisions of this chapter to the end that a proper and efficient public sewer
is maintained.
§ 51.03 BUILDING SEWERS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Building sewer construction shall meet the pertinent requirements of the
Minnesota State Building Code, which is those chapters of Minn. Rules
referenced in Minn. Rules part 1300.0050, and the Minnesota Plumbing Code,
Minn. Rules Ch. 4714. The applicant shall notify the City Clerk when the
building sewer and connection is ready for inspection. The connection shall be
made under the supervision of the Building Official or the Building Official's
representative, if the City has adopted the State Building Code. If the City
has not adopted the State Building Code, the Utilities Superintendent shall
perform the inspection. If the City does not have a Utilities Superintendent,
an installer licensed under §
51.64 shall certify that the building sewer and connection comply with the
State Building Code. No backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected and approved, or until the certification has been received.
§ 51.04 TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities.
§ 51.05 COST OF REPAIRING OR RESTORING SEWERS.
   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the City may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes by that person, and may collect the
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the City.
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 51.15 DEPOSITS OF UNSANITARY MANNER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
City, or in any area under the City's jurisdiction, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
§ 51.16 DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER OR OTHER POLLUTED WATERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the City's NPDES/SDS
permit.
§ 51.17 RESTRICTIONS ON WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
§ 51.18 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   Any new building that has public sewer service available to the property
must connect to the public sewer system upon construction.
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 51.35 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
51.18, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter, County ordinance,
Minn. Rules Ch. 7080, Design Standards for Individual Subsurface Sewage
Treatment Systems, and applicable statutes.
§ 51.36 PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. Prior to commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from
the County.
   (B)   Inspections. A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall
not become effective until the requirements of the County permit and ordinance
have been satisfied.
§ 51.37 TYPE, CAPACITIES, LOCATION AND LAYOUT.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all requirements of County ordinance and Minn. Rules
Ch. 7080, Individual Subsurface Sewage Treatment Systems Program and Minn.
Stat. § 155.55. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to
any natural outlet.
§ 51.38 DIRECT CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time a private wastewater disposal system is deemed:
      (1)   to not be protective of ground water in accordance with Minn. Rules
part 7080.1500 subp. 4(B), a direct connection shall be made to the public
sewer within ten months in compliance with this chapter, pursuant to City Code
§ 51.018, or
      (2)   to be an imminent threat to public health or safety in accordance
with Minn. Rules part 7080.1500 subp. 4(A), a direct connection shall be made
to the public sewer within 30 days in compliance with this chapter, pursuant to
City Code §
51.18.
   (B)    Within 365 days of the occurrence of part (A)(1) or (A)(2) above, any
septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal systems shall
be cleaned of sludge. The bottom shall be broken to permit drainage, and the
tank or pit filled or may be removed.
§ 51.39 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE BY OWNER.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the City.
§ 51.40 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or the
Minnesota Department of Health.
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.55 RESTRICTIONS ON NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any new connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited unless
sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities, including but
not limited to capacity for flow, BOD5 and suspended solids, as determined by
the Utilities Superintendent or authorized representative thereof.
§ 51.56 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections
with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the City and paying the
fee as established in
Chapter 34 of this Code.
   (B)   Applications. Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or
authorized agent and the party employed to do the work, and shall state the
location, name of owner, street number of the building to be connected and how
occupied. No person shall extend any private building drain beyond the limits
of the building or property for which the service connection permit has been
given.
   (C)   Classes. There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: one for
residential and commercial service, and one for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or any other information considered
pertinent in the judgement of the City. The industry, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity. Industrial waste producers will be
required to treat BOD5 to residential standards prior to discharging to the
sewer system.
   (D)   Inspection and connection. The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the City when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and inspection shall be made
under the supervision of the Utilities Superintendent or authorized
representative thereof.
§ 51.57 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City
from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer. The property owner shall own the service
connection from the building to the sewer main, including the sanitary sewer
wye and all connections to the wye.
§ 51.58 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWERS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered one building sewer. The City does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
connection.
§ 51.59 OLD BUILDING SEWERS; RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Utilities Superintendent or
their authorized representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
§ 51.60 CONFORMANCE TO STATE BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of building
sewers and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements
of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the City. Cast iron pipe shall be used for a building sewer laid
within 50 feet of any well, per Minnesota Public Health department
requirements.
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the City. All connections shall be made
gastight and watertight, and verified by proper testing to prevent the
inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the City prior to installation.
§ 51.61 ELEVATION BELOW BASEMENT FLOOR.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
§ 51.62 SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge water or cause to be discharged any
unpolluted waters such as storm water, ground water, roof run off, subsurface
drainage such as that from floor drains, sump pumps, cisterns, field tile or
any other recognizable source or any type of private, commercial or industrial
cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation having a roof drain system, surface
drain system, footing tile, swimming pool, ground water drain system or sump
pump now connected and/or discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall
disconnect and/or remove the same. Any disconnects or opening into the sanitary
sewer shall be closed or repaired in an effective, workmanlike manner, as
approved by the public works supervisor.
   (C)   Dwellings and other buildings and structures which require because of
the infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces and the like, a sump
pump system to discharge excess water shall have a permanently installed
discharge line which shall not at any time discharge water into the sanitary
sewer system. A permanent installation shall be one which provides for year
around discharge capability to either the outside of the dwelling, building or
structure, or is connected to the city storm sewer. It shall consist of a rigid
discharge line, without valves or quick connections for altering the path of
discharge, and if connected to the city storm sewer shall include a check
valve.
   (D)   Powers and Authority of Inspectors. Duly authorized employees or
representatives of the City, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to determine the
nature of discharge into any public sewer or natural outlet in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. In lieu of having the City inspect their
property, any person or entity may furnish a certificate from a licensed
plumber certifying that their property is in compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   Any person refusing to allow their property to be inspected or
refusing to furnish a plumber’s certificate within 14 days of the date the duly
authorized City employees or representatives are denied admittance to their
property shall be subject to the surcharge hereafter provided for.
   (F)   At any future time, if the City has reason to suspect that an illegal
connection may exist in a premises, the owner, by written notice shall comply
with the provisions of (C) above.
   (G)   A surcharge of $10 per month may be imposed and added to every sewer
billing mailed to property owners who are not in compliance with this chapter.
The surcharge shall be added every month until the property is in compliance.
The City Council may grant waivers from the surcharges where strict enforcement
may cause undue hardship unique to the property or where the property owner was
scheduled for disconnection but cannot do so due to circumstances, such as
availability of the plumber or inclement weather.
§ 51.63 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City.
§ 51.64 LICENSES.
   No person shall make a service connection with any public sewer unless
licensed as a plumber by the State of Minnesota, or a person in the ditch
installing the pipe who has a card showing that they have completed a program
of training that incorporates the Plumbing Code installation requirements,
issued by either the Associated Builders and Contractors, Laborers-Employers
Cooperation Educational Trust, or Minnesota Utility Contractors Association.
USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 51.80 DISCHARGES OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any water such as
stormwater, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or non-contact cooling
water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
those sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the City and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or
natural outlet on approval of the City and upon approval and the issuance of a
discharge permit by the MPCA.
§ 51.81 DISCHARGES OF WATERS OR WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include but are not limited to gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene,
toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides.
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as but not limited to grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure,
bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings,
grass clippings, moist towelettes, baby wipes, rags, spent grains, spent hops,
waste paper, wood, plastic, asphalt residues, residues from refining or
processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing
wastes.
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system.
§ 51.82 LIMITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, water or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works, treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and soil, vegetation and ground water, or will not otherwise endanger lives,
limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The Utilities Superintendent
may set limitations lower than limitations established in the regulations below
if, in his or her opinion, the more severe limitations are necessary to meet
the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
wastes, the Utilities Superintendent will give consideration to factors as the
quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, the City's NPDES/SDS permit, capacity of the sewage treatment plant,
degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Utilities Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 14°F (40°C) or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment works resulting in interference therein.
      (2)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 10 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 10 mg/l, whether emulsified or not.
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined in §
51.01.
      (4)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in §
51.01 of this chapter. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers
from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food on the premises or when served by caterers.
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process such as but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      (7)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage or ground
water.
      (8)   Wastewater containing inert suspended-solids such as but not
limited to fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or of dissolved
solids such as but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate, in
quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal system.
      (9)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of half-life or concentration as
may exceed limits established by the Utilities Superintendent in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to the
degree that any material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater
treatment works is detrimental to treatment process, adversely impacts land
application, adversely effects receiving waters, or is in violation of
standards pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act (33 USC 1317(b)): Arsenic,
Cadmium, Copper, Cyanide, Lead, Mercury, Nickel, Silver, total Chromium, Zinc
and Phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by the City's wastewater
treatment system.
      (11)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or ordinance of
any regulatory agency, or State or Federal regulatory body.
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
the materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of §
51.94.
§ 51.83 DISCHARGES HAZARDOUS TO LIFE OR CONSTITUTE PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
51.82, or which in the judgement of the Utilities Superintendent may have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment facilities, processes, or
equipment, receiving waters or soil, vegetation, and ground water, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the City
may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act (33 USC 1317(b)) and
all amendments thereof;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating and
disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
   (B)   If the City permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment shall
be made at the owner's expense and shall be subject to the review and approval
of the City pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
§ 51.84 INCREASING USE OF PROCESS WATER.
   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in §§
51.81 and
51.82, or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any
State requirements.
§ 51.85 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation at the expense of the owner.
§ 51.86 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Utilities Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
§
51.82(B)(2), any flammable wastes as specified in §
51.81(A), sand or other harmful ingredients; except that interceptors shall not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by
appropriate means and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the Utilities Superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collecting materials not performed by the owner's personnel must
be performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
§ 51.87 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; INSTALLATIONS.
   Where required by the City, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure, or control
manhole, with necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes. The structure
shall be accessible and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance
with plans approved by the City. The structure shall be installed by the owner
at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be safe and
accessible at all times.
§ 51.88 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes may, at the discretion of the City, be required to provide laboratory
measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate compliance
with this chapter and any special condition for discharge established by the
City or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number,
type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses to be performed by the
owner shall be as stipulated by the City. The industry must supply a complete
analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that
compliance with Federal, State and local standards are being met. The owner
shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the City at
times and in the manner as prescribed by the City. The owner shall bear the
expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by the City. At
those times as deemed necessary, the City reserves the right to take
measurements and supplies for analysis by an independent laboratory.
§ 51.89 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES OF WATERS AND WASTES.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Utilities
Superintendent.
§ 51.90 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE OF PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   Where required by the City, the owner of any property serviced by a sanitary
sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where necessary,
facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner's expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Utilities Superintendent for review and approval prior to
construction of the facility. Review and approval of the plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the
user's facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users
shall notify the Utilities Superintendent immediately upon having a slug or
accidental discharge of substances of wastewater in violation of this chapter
to enable countermeasures to be taken by the Utilities Superintendent to
minimize damage to the wastewater treatment works. The notification will not
relieve any user of any liability for any expense, loss or damage to the
wastewater treatment system or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on
the city on account thereof under any State and Federal law. Employers shall
ensure that all employees who may cause or discover a discharge are advised of
the emergency notification procedure.
§ 51.91 PERMITTING SUBSTANCE OR MATTER TO FLOW OR PASS INTO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person having charge of any building or other premises which drains into
the public sewer shall permit any substance or matter which may form a deposit
or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30 days after
receipt of written notice from the City, the owner shall install a suitable and
sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if one already exists, shall clean
out, repair or alter the same, and perform other work as the Utilities
Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner's refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair, or alter the same
after the period of 30 days, the Utilities Superintendent may cause the work to
be completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
§ 51.92 REPAIRING SERVICE CONNECTION.
   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or out
of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause the work to be done as the
Utilities Superintendent may direct. Each day after 30 days that a person
neglects or fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this
section, and the Utilities Superintendent may then cause the work to be done,
and recover from the owner or agent the expense thereof by an action in the
name of the City.
§ 51.93 CATCH BASIN OR WASTE TRAPS REQUIRED FOR MOTOR VEHICLE WASHING OR
SERVICING FACILITIES.
   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing facility
shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times a catch basin
or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil, dirt or any
mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
§ 51.94 SPECIAL AGREEMENT AND ARRANGEMENT.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the City and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the City for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern; provided, that National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
and the City's NPDES/SDS Permit limitations are not violated.
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Notice
      (1)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this Chapter
shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall
become liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
City by reason of that violation.
   (B)   Assessment
      (1)   Every sewer service charge levied by and pursuant to this Chapter
is made a lien upon the lot or premises served, and all charges which are on
October 31 of each year past due and delinquent shall be certified to the
County Auditor for collection. Nothing in this Chapter shall be held or
construed as in any way stopping or interfering with the right of the City to
levy as taxes or assessments against any premises affected any delinquent or
past due sewer service charges.
      (2)   As an alternative to levying a lien, the City may, at its
discretion, file suit in a civil action to collect amounts as are delinquent
and due against the occupant, owner or user of the real estate, and shall
collect as well, all attorney's fees incurred by the City in filing the civil
action. Attorney’s fees shall be fixed by order of the court.
      (3)   In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and chargeable
to recording notices of the lien or filing a civil action, the owner or user of
the real estate being serviced by the treatment works shall be liable for
interest upon all unpaid balances at the rate of 8% per annum.
USER RATE SCHEDULE FOR CHARGES
§ 51.110 CHARGES GENERALLY.
   Each user of sewer service shall pay the charges applicable to the type of
service, and in accordance with the provisions set forth in this subchapter.
§ 51.111 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the subchapter is to provide for sewer service charges to
recover costs associated with operation, maintenance and replacement to ensure
effective functioning of the City's wastewater treatment system, and local
capital costs incurred in the construction of the City's wastewater treatment
system.
§ 51.112 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, definitions found in Section
51.01 of this Code shall be used, except for the following:
   USERS. Those residential, commercial, governmental, institutional and
industrial establishments which are connected to the public sewer collection
system.
§ 51.113 ESTABLISHMENT OF A SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The City hereby establishes a Sewer Service Charge System whereby all
revenue collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities will be
used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance and
replacement and for debt service on capital expenditure incurred in
constructing the wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation, maintenance,
and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the users proportionate
contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
   (C)   Each user shall pay debt service charges to retire local capital costs
as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be determined and fixed in a “Sewer Service Charge System”
developed according to the provisions of this subchapter. The Sewer Service
Charge System shall be the system enacted prior to the adoption of this Code.
Chapter 34 of this Code may be amended to include subsequent changes in sewer
service rates and charges.
   (E)    Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a separate
fund known as the “Sewer Service Fund.” Income from revenues collected will be
expended to off-set the cost of operation, maintenance and equipment
replacement for the facility and to retire the debt for capital expenditure.
   (F)    Sewer service charges and the sewer service fund will be
administrated in accordance with the provisions of §
51.116.
   (G)   A connection fee shall be charged to each user connecting a new
service to the Sanitary Sewer System. The connection fee shall be due and
payable within 90 days of the date the connection is completed.
   (H)   A sewer availability charge may be charged.
§ 51.114 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be established. Charges made for service rendered shall conform
to Minn. Stat. § 444.075 Subd. 3a. All accounts shall be carried in the name of
the owner who personally, or by his or her authorized agent, applied for such
service. The property owner shall be liable for all sewer services supplied to
the property, whether he or she is occupying the property or not.
§ 51.115 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   The City hereby establishes a “Sewer Service Fund” as an income fund
to receive all revenues generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement and
construction of the wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special
charges, fees and assessments intended to retire construction debt. The City
also establishes the following accounts as income and expenditure accounts
within the sewer service fund:
      (1)   Operation and Maintenance Account.
      (2)   Equipment Replacement Account.
      (3)   Debt Retirement Account.
   (B)   All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the City
Treasurer separate and apart from all other funds of the City. Funds received
by the sewer service fund shall be transferred to the “Operation and
Maintenance Account,” the “Equipment Replacement Account,” and the “Debt
Retirement Account” in accordance with state and federal regulations and the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient to
ensure adequate replacement throughout the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the wastewater facility shall be held separate and
apart in the “Equipment Replacement Account” and dedicated to affecting
replacement costs. Interest income generated by the “Equipment Replacement
Account” shall remain in the “Equipment Replacement Account.”
   (D)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient for
operation and maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the “Operation
and Maintenance Account.”
§ 51.116 ADMINISTRATION.
   The sewer service charge system and sewer service fund shall be
administrated according to the following provisions:
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall maintain a proper system of accounts suitable
for determining the operation and maintenance, equipment replacement and debt
retirement costs of the treatment works, and shall furnish the City Council
with a report of those costs annually in December. The City Council shall
annually determine whether or not sufficient revenue is being generated for the
effective operation, maintenance, replacement and management of the treatment
works, and whether sufficient revenue is being generated for debt retirement.
The Council will also determine whether the user charges are distributed
proportionately to each user in accordance with §
51.113(B). The City shall thereafter, but not later than the end of the year,
reassess and as necessary revise the Sewer Service Charge System then in use to
ensure the proportionality of the user charges and to ensure the sufficiency of
funds to maintain the capacity and performance to which the facilities were
constructed, and to retire the construction debt.
   (B)   In accordance with Federal and State requirements, each user will be
notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the
sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance and replacement.
   (C)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the City Treasurer
shall be responsible for maintaining all records necessary to document
compliance with the Sewer Service Charge System adopted.
   (D)   Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered on a monthly, bi-
monthly or quarterly basis as designated by Council, succeeding the period for
which the service was rendered and shall be due within 30 days. Any bill not
paid in full 30 days after the due date will be considered delinquent. At that
time the City shall notify the delinquent owner/occupant in writing regarding
the delinquent bill and subsequent penalty. The penalty shall be computed at
10% of the original bill and shall be increased the same 10% for every quarter
the bill is outstanding. Disconnection of services for late payment shall
follow the procedures established in
Chapter 54.
   (E)    The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
their premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the City only
upon the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefore to the
City.
   (F)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxics or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the discharger of the wastes,
at no expense to the City.
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 51.130 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES PERMITTED TO ENTER ALL PROPERTIES.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the City,
bearing proper credentials and identification, are authorized, with the
permission of the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
property within the City, to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observations, measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to the
discharges to the City's sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
property within the City does not permit the entrance to the property, the City
shall obtain an administrative search warrant as provided for in §
10.20 before entering the property, except in emergency situations.
§ 51.131 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES OBTAINING INFORMATION FOR INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees or agents of
the City are authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes
which have a direct bearing on the type and source of discharge to the
wastewater collection system. An industry may withhold information considered
confidential; however, the industry must establish that the revelation to the
public of the information in question might result in an advantage to
competitors.
§ 51.132 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES TO OBSERVE SAFETY RULES.
   While performing necessary work on private properties, the Utilities
Superintendent or duly authorized employees or agents of the City shall observe
all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
property owner shall be held harmless for injury or death to the City employees
and the City shall indemnify the property owner against loss or damage to its
property by City employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
51.87.
§ 51.133 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES PERMITTED TO ENTER ALL PROPERTY WITH EASEMENTS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees or agents of
the City bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of but not limited to inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater
facilities lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
the easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
CHAPTER 52: WATER REGULATIONS
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 GENERAL OPERATION.
   The City does hereby make provision for the establishment of a municipal
water system (hereinafter called the water system) to be operated as a public
utility.
§ 52.02 USE OF WATER SERVICE.
   No person other than a City employee or duly authorized agent shall uncover
or make or use any water service installation connected to the City water
system except in the manner provided by this chapter. No person shall make or
use any installation contrary to the regulatory provisions of this chapter.
§ 52.03 USE TO CIRCUMVENT CHAPTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit water from the water system to be used for any
purpose to circumvent this chapter.
§ 52.04 DAMAGE TO WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall remove or damage any structure,
appurtenance, or part of the water system or fill or partially fill any
excavation or move any gate valve used in the water system.
   (B)   No person shall make any connection of an electrical welder to the
City water main, appurtenance or service or use an electric welder for the
purpose of thawing frozen water mains, appurtenances or services.
§ 52.05 CONNECTIONS BEYOND CITY BOUNDARIES.
   Where water mains of the City are in any street or alley adjacent to or
outside the corporate limits of the City, the City Council may issue permits to
the owners or occupants of properties adjacent or accessible to the water main
to make proper water service pipe connections with the water mains of the City
and to be supplied with water in conformity with the applicable provisions of
this chapter and subject to any contract for the supply of water between the
City and any other city. The water meter pit will be in the City limits. The
City will own and maintain the water meter. The user will pay for the original
meter and the connection fee.
§ 52.06 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED; USE OF PRIVATE WELLS.
   (A)   Except where municipal water is not available, it shall be unlawful to
construct, reconstruct, or repair any private water system which is designed or
intended to provide water for human consumption. Private wells, to provide
water for other than human consumption, may be constructed, maintained and
continued in use after connection is made to the water system; provided, there
is no means of cross-connection between the private well and municipal water
supply at any time. Hose bibbs that will enable the cross-connection of the two
systems are prohibited on internal piping of the well system supply. Where both
private and City systems are in use, outside hose bibbs shall not be installed
on both systems.
   (B)   All new homes or buildings shall connect to the municipal water system
if water is available to the property. At the time as municipal water becomes
available to existing homes or buildings, a direct connection shall be made to
the public system within a period of time as determined by the City Council. If
the connection is not made pursuant to this chapter, a charge as established
Chapter 34 of this Code shall be made.
   (C)   Where new homes or buildings do not have water available to the
property, the City shall determine whether and under what conditions the
municipal water system will be extended to serve the property.
   (D)   If the well is not to be used after the time a municipal water
connection is made:
      (1)   The well pump and tank shall be disconnected from all internal
piping;
      (2)   The casing shall be filled with sandy soil from the bottom to a
point eight feet from the top;
      (3)   The remaining eight feet shall be filled with concrete to the floor
level and the well casing cut off as close to the floor level as possible;
      (4)   Within 30 days after the municipal water connection is made, the
owner or occupant must advise the City Utilities Superintendent that the well
has been sealed.
      (5)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, all well abandonment shall be done
in accordance with Minn. Stat. §§ 103I.301 to 103I.345 and Minn. Rules Ch.
4725, Wells and Borings. All well sealing shall be performed by a professional
licensed well driller trained in well abandonment.
§ 52.07 USE OF WATER FOR AIR CONDITIONING; PERMITS.
   (A)   All air conditioning systems which are connected directly or
indirectly with the public water system must be equipped with water conserving
and water regulating devices and a backflow device as approved by the City
Engineer or City Utilities Superintendent.
§ 52.08 USE OF WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS; TEMPORARY CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Use of Fire Hydrants. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person,
unless authorized by the Utilities Superintendent, shall operate fire hydrants
or interfere in any way with the water system without first obtaining a permit
to do so from the City as follows:
      (1)   A permit to use a fire hydrant shall be issued for each individual
job or contract and for a minimum of 30 days and for the additional 30 day
period as the City shall determine. The permit shall state the location of the
hydrant and shall be for the use of that hydrant and none other.
      (2)   The user shall make an advance cash deposit to guarantee payment
for water used and to cover breakage and damage to the hydrant and meter, which
shall be refunded upon expiration of the permit, less applicable charges for
use.
      (3)   The user shall relinquish the use of the hydrant to authorized City
employees in emergency situations.
      (4)   The user shall pay a use charge as established
Chapter 34 of this Code for each day including Sundays and legal holidays, and
a fee as established by
Chapter 34 of this Code for each 1,000 gallons of water used.
      (5)   Connections to a public water supply to fill tankers must follow
backflow prevention standards. The connection will have a reduced pressure zone
backflow device.
   (B)   Temporary Connection to Fire Hydrants. An owner of a private water
system may make a temporary above ground connection to a fire hydrant, subject
to the time periods, conditions, and payment specified in
Chapter 34 of this Code. In addition, the method of connection to the private
system shall conform to all existing requirements of this chapter and City
ordinance and the type of meter used shall meet the approval of the Utilities
Superintendent.
§ 52.09 WATER DEFICIENCY, SHUT OFF AND USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The City shall not be liable for any deficiency or failure in the
supply of water to consumers, whether occasioned by shutting the water off for
the purpose of making repairs or connections or from any other cause
whatsoever. In case of fire, or alarm of fire, or in making repairs of
construction of new works, water may be shut off without notice at any time and
kept off as long as necessary. In addition, the City Council shall have the
right to impose reasonable restrictions on the use of the City water system in
emergency situations. For non-payment of charges, water service may be
discontinued according to the procedures established in
Chapter 54 of this Code.
   (B)   Restricted Hours. Whenever the Council determines that a shortage of
water supply threatens the City, it may, by resolution, limit the times and
hours during which City water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car
washing, air condition, or other specified uses. After publication of the
resolution, no person shall use, or permit water to be used, in violation of
the resolution, and any customer who does so shall be charged a fee set by
resolution of the Council for each day of violation and the charge shall be
added to his next water bill. If the emergency requires immediate compliance
with terms of the resolution, the Council may provide for the delivery of a
copy of the resolution to the premises of each customer, and any customer who
has received such notice and thereafter uses or permits water to be used in
violation of the resolution shall be subject to the charge provided above.
Continued violation shall be cause for discontinuance of water service.
WATER REGULATIONS
§ 52.25 SUPPLY FROM ONE SERVICE.
   No more than one housing unit or building shall be supplied from one service
connection except by permission of City Council. Each unit served shall have a
separate water meter.
§ 52.26 TAPPING OF MAINS RESTRICTED.
   No person, except persons authorized by the City Council, shall tap any
distributing main or pipe of the water supply system or insert stopcocks or
ferrules therein.
§ 52.27 REPAIRS.
   (A)   Determination of Need for Repairs. Based on the information supplied
by the property owner or available to the City, the City may make a
determination whether a problem exists in that portion of the service which is
the City's responsibility. If the problem appears to exist in the areas for
which the City has no responsibility, the private owners will be responsible
for correction of the problem. The property owner shall own the service
connection from the building to the water main, including all connections to
the water main.
   (B)   Thawing of Water Services. The City may attempt to thaw water services
on request of the resident. If the problem is found within that portion of the
service for which the private owner is responsible, the private owner
thereafter will be responsible for thawing the service and correction of the
problem.
   (C)   Excavation or Repair of Water Service.
      (1)   The City may arrange for the investigative digging up and repair of
any water service where the problem apparently exists within that area for
which the City has responsibility.
      (2)   Unless it is clearly evident, however, that the problem is the
responsibility of the City, the excavation and repair may not be made until the
property owner requests the City in writing to excavate or repair the service
and agrees to pay the cost.
      (3)   The owner further agrees to waive public hearing and be specially
assessed the cost of the excavation and repair if the problem is found to be
other than the City's responsibility. The City may make the determination for
responsibility of the cost of investigation or repair.
      (4)   The matter of whether the dig up is done by City forces or
contracted would depend on the urgency or need of repair and the availability
of City forces to do the work.
   (D)   Failure to Repair. In case of failure upon the part of any consumer or
owner to repair any leak occurring in his or her service pipe within 24 hours
after verbal or written notice thereof, the water may be turned off by the City
and may not be turned on until the leak has been repaired and a fee pursuant to
Chapter 34 of this Code has been paid to the City.
§ 52.28 ABANDONED OR UNUSED SERVICES.
   (A)   If the premises served by water have been abandoned, or if the service
has not been used for one year, then the service may be shut off at the curb
stop box by the City and the water meter will be removed.
   (B)   When new buildings are erected on the site of old ones, and it is
desired to increase or change the old water service, no connections with the
mains may be made until all the old service has been removed and the main taps
plugged or yoked connections installed by the City at the owner's expense.
§ 52.29 DISCONNECTION PERMIT.
   A permit must be obtained to disconnect from the existing water service
leads at the curb stop box. The fee for the permit shall be set pursuant to
Chapter 34 of this Code.
§ 52.30 SERVICE PIPES.
   Every service pipe shall be laid so as to allow at least one foot of extra
length in order to prevent rupture by settlement. The service pipe must be
placed no less than seven feet below the ground and in a manner as to prevent
rupture by freezing. Service pipes must extend from the curb stop box to the
inside of the building, or if not taken into the building, then to the hydrant
or fixtures which it is intended to supply. All tubing and pipes shall conform
to the Minnesota Plumbing Code. All underground joints are to be mechanical,
except joints under floors shall be soldered in accordance with the Minnesota
Plumbing Code, unless otherwise approved by the Utilities Superintendent.
Joints of copper tubing shall be kept to a minimum, and all joints shall
conform to the Minnesota Plumbing Code. All joints and connections shall be
left uncovered until inspected by the Utilities Superintendent and must comply
to the Minnesota Plumbing Code and tested at normal water line pressure. Unions
must conform to the Minnesota Plumbing Code. Connections with the mains for
domestic supply shall be at least one inch up to the curb stop box.
§ 52.31 EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No excavation shall be made until a permit for the connection has been
issued by the City.
   (B)   No water service pipe or water connection shall be installed in the
same trench or closer than ten feet horizontally to a sewer trench or drain
laid, or to be laid, either in the street or in private property, except that
the water pipe on private property may be in a common trench with a sewer drain
which is of a material that is in conformance with the current Minnesota
Plumbing Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 4714.
   (C)   Where it is desired to lay the water service pipe and the building
sewer pipe in the same trench, or in separate trenches less than ten feet
apart, the water service pipe shall be above the sewer pipe unless approved by
the City Engineer. It shall be placed at least one foot above the sewer and on
a solid shelf excavated at one side of the trench. The sewer pipe shall be of a
material that is in conformance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code with tested
watertight joints. The water service pipe shall be watertight and corrosion
resistant. Copper pipe and ductile or cast iron water pipe with specially
protected joints is acceptable for this construction. Cast iron pipe shall
conform to the American Water Works Association specifications for this pipe.
Bell joint clamps with rubber gaskets are provisionally acceptable as extra
protection for the joints on cast iron water pipe. In all cases, precautions
shall be taken to assure a firm foundation for the pipes. The intervening space
between the pipes shall be backfilled with compacted earth.
   (D)   In case the installation is on a surfaced street, the following shall
apply: All backfill materials shall be mechanically compacted in 12 inch layers
to the density of the adjacent material in the roadway area and to the existing
street grades in accordance with the City of Randolph Standards. Complete
surface restoration shall be made.
§ 52.32 CONNECTION TO OTHER WATER SUPPLIES RESTRICTED.
   No water pipe of the water system shall be connected with any pump, well,
tank, or piping that is connected with any other source of water supply except
to service municipal systems.
§ 52.33 WATER CONNECTIONS; APPLICATIONS AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Connection Applications.
      (1)   All applications for service installations and for water service
shall be made to the City Clerk. All applications for service installations and
water service shall be made by the owner or agent of the property to be served
and shall state the size and location of service connection required. The
applicant shall, at the time of making application, pay to the City the amount
of fees as established by
Chapter 34 of this Code, or deposit required for the installation of the
service connection as hereinafter provided. Applications for services larger
than one inch shall be accompanied by two sets of plans or sketches indicating
preferred location of service pipe and size of service based on building
demand.
      (2)   The size of the water service connections and meter shall be
subject to approval of the City Engineer. Water meter sizing for a domestic
connection shall be five-eighths inch by one inch. The standard service line
size will be one inch. If the homeowner requests a larger service line the
extra cost of the water meter will be charged to the connection owner. The
future replacement of the water meter will be billed at the difference between
the standard meter cost and meter need to accommodate the larger line at the
time of replacement.
      (3)   Water billing shall start at the time of installation of the water
meter, or in the event the meter is not installed, seven days after completion
of outside piping, and shall be calculated upon the minimum quarterly rate,
prorated on a semi-monthly basis.
   (B)   Connection Charges.
      (1)   A permit must be obtained to connect to the existing water service
leads at the curb stop box. The fee for the permit shall be set pursuant to
Chapter 34 of this Code. The City shall install or have installed all service
connections from the water main to the curb stop box including the stop box.
Payment for service connections must be made before the work is started and
should be based upon one and one-half times the estimate of costs provided by
the City Engineer. Any excess deposit shall be returned to the applicant.
      (2)   Additional charges shall be paid at the time of making application
for tapping and making connections with the water main to where a curb stop box
and service lead is not previously installed. The charge shall include the
tapping of the water main, corporation cocks, the installation of a service
line, the installation of a curb stop box, cost of restoring disturbed areas
and all other costs related to the installation.
      (3)   There shall be a connection charge pursuant to
Chapter 34 of this Code levied by the City to contribute to the payment of the
costs of the Public Water System Facilities. The City Council shall set by
resolution the charges to be made for nonresidential installations.
      (4)   When water services have been stopped because of a violation of
this chapter, the City shall collect the fee established pursuant to
Chapter 34 of this Code before service is recommenced.
      (5)   If a person desires to connect to the system and service a parcel
that has not been assessed for the cost of water main and lateral construction,
then before a permit is granted, the City shall collect an amount from the
applicant that is established pursuant to
Chapter 34 of this Code.
§ 52.34 LOCATION OF CURB STOP BOX.
   Curb stop boxes will be installed on the right-of-way line or easement
limits at a location as determined by the City Engineer to be best suitable to
the property and shall be left in a vertical position when backfilling is
completed. Curb stop boxes will be installed at an approximate depth of seven
feet below the finished ground elevation and the top of the curb stop box shall
be adjusted to be flush with the finished ground elevation. Curb stop boxes
must be firmly supported by a masonry block. No person shall erect any fence or
plant any tree or other landscaping that would obstruct, or place a structure
on, park a motor vehicle on, or otherwise obstruct the use of the curb stop
box, or cause damage to the same.
§ 52.35 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Generally. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person, unless
otherwise authorized by the City Council shall use water from the water system
or permit water to be drawn therefrom unless the same be metered by passing
through a meter supplied or approved by the City. No person not authorized by
the City Council or Utilities Superintendent shall connect, disconnect, take
apart, or in any manner change or cause to be changed or interfere with any
meter or the action thereof, or break any meter or valve seal.
      (1)   A charge established pursuant to
Chapter 34 of this Code shall be paid by customers to the City for water meters
including installations and check valves and payment for same shall be made at
the time of water service application. This payment shall be made only once,
subject to the following:
         (a)   Where a consumer has need for a larger line in addition to his
or her domestic line, as in the case of a commercial consumer who needs a one
inch line for normal use and a six inch or larger line for a fire sprinkler
system, he or she will be permitted to run one line into the premises and “Y”
off into two lines at the building. When this is done, the meter will be
attached to the small or domestic line and a check valve as well as one-inch
detection meter shall be put on the large line.
      (2)   The City shall maintain and repair all meters when rendered
unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall replace them if
necessary. When replacement, repair, or adjustment of any meter is rendered by
the act, neglect (including damage from freezing or hot water backup) or
carelessness of the owner or occupant of the premises, any expense caused the
City thereby shall be charged against and collected from the water consumer.
      (3)   A consumer may, by written request, have his or her meter tested.
In case a test should show an error of over five percent of the water consumed,
a correctly registering meter will be installed, and the bill will be adjusted
accordingly and the testing deposit refunded. This adjustment shall not extend
back more than one billing period from the date of the written request.
      (4)   All water meters and remote readers shall be and remain the
property of the City.
      (5)   Authorized City employees shall have free access at reasonable
hours of the day to all parts of every building and premises connected with the
water system for reading of meters and inspections.
   However, City employees may not enter private property without obtaining the
permission of the owner to do so or have obtained a search warrant issued by a
court of competent jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20.
      (6)   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to notify the City
to request a final reading at the time of the customer's billing change.
   (B)   Water Meter Setting. All water meters hereafter installed shall be in
accordance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code and any standards established by
resolution of the City Council.
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.50 WATER UNIT.
   A water unit (hereinafter called unit) shall be one residential equivalent
connection based on usage of 100,00 gallons per year or portion thereof.
§ 52.51 RATES, FEES AND CHARGES GENERALLY.
   The City Council shall establish a schedule of all water rates, fees and
charges for permits or services in
Chapter 34 of this Code. In accordance with Minn. Stat. § 444.075 Subd. 3,
charges made for services rendered shall be as nearly as possible proportionate
to the cost of furnishing the service.
§ 52.52 WATER SERVICE BILLING; CHANGE OF ADDRESS.
   All bills and notices shall be mailed or delivered to the address where
service is provided. If nonresident owners or agents desire personal notice
sent to a different address, they shall so note on the water service
application. Any change or error in address shall be promptly reported to the
City Clerk. All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who
personally or by his or her authorized agent, applied for the service. The
owner shall be liable for water services supplied to the property whether he or
she is occupying the property or not.
§ 52.53 WATER RATES.
   (A)   The rate due and payable by each user within the City for water taken
from the water system shall be established pursuant to
Chapter 34 of this Code.
   (B)   In case the meter is found to have stopped, or to be operating in a
faulty manner, the amount of water used will be estimated in accordance with
the amount used previously in comparable periods of the year.
   (C)   Rates due and payable by each water user located beyond the
territorial boundaries of the City may be determined by special contract.
   (D)   The minimum rates established pursuant to
Chapter 34 of this Code shall begin to accrue after connection of the service
pipe with the curb stop box.
   (E)   A meter shall be installed on the water valve in the house and a
remote register outside regardless of whether inside piping is connected.
   (F)   In the event a water customer elects to discontinue the use of the
municipal water, the regular or minimum charge shall continue until the date as
service is disconnected at the curb box.
§ 52.54 PAYMENT OF CHARGES; LATE PAYMENT; COLLECTION.
   (A)   Any prepayment or overpayment of charges may be retained by the City
and applied on subsequent charges.
   (B)   If a service charge is not paid when due, then a penalty of ten
percent shall be added thereto.
   (C)   In the event a user fails to pay his or her water user fee within a
reasonable time following discontinuance of service (a time period not to
exceed 90 days), the fee shall be certified by the City Clerk and forwarded to
the County Auditor for collection as provided for in
Chapter 54.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.70 SUPERVISION BY UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT; LICENSING.
   (A)   All piping connections from the curb stop box to house supply piping
shall be made under the supervision of a licensed plumber subject to inspection
by the Utilities Superintendent. The piping connection made to the curb stop
box on the house side shall be inspected by the Utilities Superintendent. The
water meter installation shall be inspected, tested and the meter sealed by the
Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of
altering, repairing, installing or constructing municipal water connections
within the City unless they are a master plumber licensed by the State under
the provisions of Minn. Stat. § 326B.46 or a person in the ditch installing the
pipe who has a card showing that they have completed a program of training that
incorporates the Plumbing Code installation requirements, issued by either the
Associated Builders and Contractors, Laborers-Employers Cooperation Educational
Trust, or Minnesota Utility Contractors Association.
§ 52.71 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Utilities Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city, upon proper identification, are authorized, with the permission of the
licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property within the
city, to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspections, observation
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. If the licensee,
owner, resident or other person in control of property within the city does not
permit the entrance to the property, the city shall obtain an administrative
search warrant as provided for in §
10.20 before entering the property, except in emergency situations.
§ 52.72 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Water service may be shut off at any connection as provided for in
Chapter 54 of this Code.
§ 52.73 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES TO TURN WATER ON AND OFF.
   No person, except an authorized City employee or authorized agent of the
City, shall turn on or off any water supply at the curb stop box or watermain
gate valve.
§ 52.74 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE, LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the City by
reason of the violation.
CHAPTER 53: STORM WATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
§ 53.01 STORM WATER DRAINAGE UTILITY ESTABLISHED.
   The Council may, by resolution adopted by a majority of its members, resolve
that the City storm sewer system be operated as a public utility pursuant to
Minn. Stat. § 444.075, from which revenues will be derived subject to the
provisions of this chapter and State statutes. The storm water drainage utility
will be under the administration of the City Clerk.
§ 53.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT FACTOR (REF). One REF is defined as the ratio of the
average volume of runoff generated by one acre of a given land use to the
average volume of runoff generated by one acre of typical single-family
residential land during a standard one-year rainfall event.
§ 53.03 DETERMINATION OF STORM WATER DRAINAGE FEES.
   (A)   Storm water drainage fees for parcels of land shall be determined by
multiplying the REF for a parcel's land use by the parcel's acreage and then
multiplying the resulting product by the storm water drainage rate. The REF
values for various land used are as shown in the following table.
Classification Land Use REF
Classification Land Use                                             REF
1              Cemeteries, golf courses                             .25
2              Parks with parking facilities                        .75
3              Single-family and duplex residential                 1
4              Public and private schools                           1.25
5              Multiple-family residential, churches and government 2.5
               buildings
6              Commercial, industrial, warehouse                    5
7              Vacant land                                          As assigned
                                                                   
 
   (B)   For the purpose of calculating storm water drainage fees, all
developed single-family and duplex parcels shall be considered to have an
acreage of one-third acre. The storm water drainage rate shall be as set in
Chapter 34 of this Code.
   (C)   Other uses not listed shall be classified by the City Engineer by
assigning them to the most similar class from the standpoint of probably
hydrologic response.
§ 53.04 CREDITS.
   The Council may adopt policies, recommended by the City Engineer, by
resolution for adjustment of the storm water drainage fee for parcels based
upon hydrologic data to be supplied by the property owner, which data
demonstrates a hydrologic response substantially different from the standards.
The adjustment of storm water drainage fees shall not be made retroactively.
§ 53.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following land uses are exempt from storm water drainage fees:
   (A)   Public rights-of-way;
   (B)   Vacant, unimproved land with ground cover; and
   (C)   Wetlands and public waters as defined by state law.
§ 53.06 FEE PAYMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Statements for storm water drainage fees shall be computed monthly and
shall appear as part of the monthly utility bill from the City utilities.
   (B)   If a property owner or person responsible for paying the storm water
drainage fee questions the correctness of the fee, the person may have the
determination of the charge recomputed by written request to the City Engineer.
   (C)   Each monthly billing for storm water drainage fees not paid when due
shall incur a penalty charge of ten percent of the amount past due.
   (A)   Any past due storm water drainage fees in excess of 90 days past due
on October 1 of any year may be certified to the County Auditor for collection
with real estate taxes in the following year, pursuant to Minn. Stat. §
444.075, Subd. 3e. In addition, the City shall also have the right to bring
civil action or to take other legal remedies to collect unpaid fees.
CHAPTER 54: RATES AND CHARGES
§ 54.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The monthly charge for water and sewer services shall be as
established in
Chapter 34 of this Code.
   (B)   Accounts. All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who
personally, or by his or her authorized agent, applied for such service. The
owner shall be liable for water and sewer services supplied to the property,
whether he or she is occupying the property or not, and any unpaid charges
shall be a lien upon the property.
§ 54.02 COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   The charges fixed herein for water and sewer services shall be entered in
their respective amounts on the utility bill. The City may discontinue all
utility services, including water and sewer, for failing to pay any assessed
charges and until the charges have been paid in full under conditions and
procedures detailed in § §
54.03.
§ 54.03 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   Discontinuance of Service: The City reserves the right to discontinue
service to any customer of the water and sanitary sewer system without notice
when necessary for repairs, additional connection or reconnection, for
nonpayment of charges or bills, or for disregard of any rules or regulations in
connection with the use or operation of such system. Whenever any service has
been discontinued for nonpayment of the charges or bills, for disregard of any
rules or regulations, or for any other purpose, it shall not be resumed except
upon payment of the charges or bills accrued, together with interest thereon,
or upon compliance with the rules and regulations previously violated and
payment to the City of a restoration fee established in the City’s fee
ordinance.
   (B)   Delinquent Bills; Lien: In the event a water or sewer bill is unpaid
at the end of the calendar quarter or the billing period under which the
billing is sent out, the billing shall be considered delinquent, the service
may be discontinued as provided in subsection (A) of this Section, and the City
Council may cause the charges noted in such billing to become a lien against
the property served by certifying to the County Auditor the amount of such
delinquent bill in accordance with the Statutes of the State. 
   (C)   Any customer disputing the correctness of a bill shall have a right to
a hearing at which time they may present orally or in writing their complaint
and contentions to the City Council. The City Council shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (D)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
§ 54.04 COLD WEATHER RULE.
   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 216B.097, no service of a residential customer
shall be disconnected if the disconnection affects the primary heat source for
the residential unit when the disconnection would occur during the period
between October 15 and April 15, the customer has declared inability to pay on
forms provided by the City, the household income of the customer is at or below
50% of the state median household income as documented by the customer to the
City, and the customer’s account is current for the billing period immediately
prior to October 15, or the customer has entered into a payment schedule and is
reasonably current with payments under the schedule.
§ 54.05 DELINQUENT CHARGES.
   As provided for by Minn. Stat. § 444.075, Subd. 3e, the City Clerk, annually
or more frequently as directed by Council, shall prepare a list of delinquent
charges to be certified for payment as taxes. The list of delinquent charges
shall be delivered to the City Council for adoption. All persons who have
delinquent charges included in the list shall be notified and given a chance to
appear before the Council before the list is adopted. In the event the
delinquency involves rental property, notice shall be given to the record owner
of the property in addition to the tenant or other parties in possession and he
or she given a chance to appear before the Council. Upon adoption, the City
Clerk shall certify the unpaid charges to the County Auditor for collection as
other taxes are collected. This action may be optional or subsequent to taking
other legal action to collect delinquent charges, and shall not preclude the
City or its agents from recovery of the delinquent charges and interest under
any other available remedy, and shall not preclude the disconnection for late
payment provided for in this chapter.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   SNOWMOBILES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL AND OTHER VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State Highway Traffic Regulations Adopted by Reference
   
70.02   Trucks Prohibited on Certain Streets
   
70.03   Stop Intersections
   
70.04   Through Streets and One-Way Streets
   
70.05   Turning Restrictions
   
70.06   Excessive Noise
   
70.07   Exhibition Driving Prohibited
   
70.08   Motor Vehicle Noise
   
70.09   Pedestrian Crossings
   
70.10   Crossings for Seniors or Disabled Persons
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   No Parking Where Posted
   
71.02   Limited Parking
   
71.03   Other Parking Restrictions
   
71.04   Parking Prohibited After Snowfall of Two Inches or More
   
71.05   Repairing of Vehicles
   
71.06   Prohibiting Parking Areas in Front Yards in Residential Zones
   
71.07   Impoundment
   
71.08   Prima Facie Violation
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned Vehicles, see
Chapter 92
CHAPTER 72: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
72.01   Intent
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Application of Traffic Ordinances
   
72.04   Restrictions
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL AND OTHER VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Purpose and Intent
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   Operation Requirements
   
73.04   Street Crossings
   
73.05   Minimum Equipment Requirements
   
73.06   Designation of Public Areas for Use
   
73.07   Motorized Golf Carts
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Highway Traffic Regulations Act is hereby adopted by reference.
The regulatory provisions of Minn. Stat. § 169, are hereby adopted as a traffic
ordinance regulating the use of highways, streets and alleys within the City
and are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this section as completely as
if set out in full herein.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of the provisions of State statutes adopted
by reference in this section shall be identical with the penalty provided for
in the statutes for the same offense.
§ 70.02 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   As authorized by Minn. Stat. § 169.87, the City Council by resolution
may designate streets on which travel by commercial vehicles in excess of
10,000 pounds axle weight is prohibited. The City shall cause appropriate signs
to be erected on those streets. No person shall operate a commercial vehicle on
posted streets in violation of the restrictions posted.
   (B)   The weight restrictions established in division (A) shall not apply to
City or emergency vehicles, public school buses, garbage and refuse trucks
making regular collections and are under contract with the City, recycling
trucks used exclusively for collection of recycling materials pursuant to a
City mandate to provide curbside recycling, and implements of husbandry
operated in compliance with Minn. Stat. § 169.801, and City, county and state
road authority vehicles engaged in snow and ice removal or flood control
operations on behalf of a State or local government, nor shall the weight
restrictions in division (A) apply if a commercial vehicle must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pick-up or delivery.
   (C)   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 169.84, the gross weight of any vehicle or
combination of vehicles driven onto or over a bridge on any City street or
highway shall not exceed the safe capacity of the bridge, as may be indicated
by warning posted on the bridge or the approaches thereto.
   (D)   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 169.86, Minn. Stat. § 169.862 and Minn.
Stat. § 169.865, the City Clerk may issue a permit for heavier loads to travel
on streets where otherwise restricted. The City Clerk may issue such a permit
upon applicant provision of adequate insurance, execution of a written
agreement to pay the City costs of any repairs the roadway, curbs, ditches and
right-of-way necessitated by the permittee’s damage to the roadway and to
defend and indemnify the City against all claims related to the permittee’s use
of the roadway, and posting of a bond or other financial security in an amount
adequate to cover City expenses, including but not limited to repair costs
related to any damage to the road. Any person aggrieved by a permit denial may
appeal the denial to the City Council within 30 days of such denial. Permits
issued under this provision are good for five consecutive business days. No
person, corporation or other entity may obtain more than three permits per
year. The permit fee shall be set in 
Chapter 34 of this Code.
§ 70.03 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 169.04, the City may designate intersections as a
stop intersection and require all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to
those intersections. The City shall post signs at those designated
intersections, giving notice of the designation as a stop intersection. It
shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or signs posted
under this section.
§ 70.04 THROUGH STREETS AND ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 169.04, the City Council by resolution may
designate any street or portion of a street as a through street or one-way
street where necessary to preserve the free flow of traffic or to prevent
accidents. No trunk highway shall be so designated unless the consent of the
Commissioner of Transportation to the designation is first secured. The City
shall cause appropriate signs to be posted at the entrance to designated
streets. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
§ 70.05 TURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 169.04, the City Council by resolution may,
whenever necessary to preserve a free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents,
designate any intersection as one where turning of vehicles to the left or to
the right, or both, is to be restricted at all times or during specified hours.
No intersection on a trunk highway shall be so designated until the consent of
the Commissioner of Transportation to the designation is first obtained.
      (1)   The City shall mark by appropriate signs any intersection so
designated.
      (2)   No person shall turn a vehicle at any intersection contrary to the
direction on those signs.
   (B)   Except at intersections, and then only if not posted otherwise, it
shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle on any street to
cross the center of the street for the purpose of parking on the side of the
street opposite the original direction of travel.
§ 70.06 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   LIGHT-MOTOR VEHICLES means any automobile, van, motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle, motor scooter, go-cart, minibike, trail bike, neighborhood
electric vehicle, golf cart, mini truck, all-terrain vehicle, truck with a
gross vehicular weight of less than 10,000 pounds or low power vehicle.
      (2)   LOW POWER VEHICLE for the purposes of this section means a vehicle
with a gas, electric or battery powered engine that may achieve a maximum
vehicle speed of 35 miles per hour.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or cause to operate,
or use a light-motor vehicle in a manner as to cause, or allow to be caused,
excessive noise levels as a result of unreasonable rapid accelerations,
deceleration, revving of engine, squealing of tires, honking of horns, or as a
result of the operation of audio devices on or from the light-motor vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor
vehicle in violation of the noise standards contained in Minn. Rules parts
7030.1050 and 7030.1060.
   (D)   No person shall operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor
vehicle that discharges its exhaust other than through a muffler or other
device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises. No person shall
operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor vehicle whose exhaust system
has been modified, altered, or repaired in any way, including the use of a
muffler cut-out or by-pass, that amplifies or otherwise increases noise above
that emitted by the light-motor vehicle as originally equipped.
   (E)   The following are exempted from the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Burglar alarms on light-motor vehicles of the electronic signaling
type which also transmit an audible signal to a receiver which can be carried
by the owner or operator of the vehicle.
§ 70.07 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the City in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel, or in a manner simulating a race. Unreasonable squealing or screeching
sounds emitted by tires or the unreasonable throwing of sand or gravel by the
tires is prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
§ 70.08 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following phrases
are defined as follows:
   ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE.
      (1)   Distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort and repose of any person or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s value;
      (2)   Noise in excess of that permitted by Minn. Stat. § 169.69, which
requires every motor vehicle to be equipped with a muffler in good working
order; or
      (3)   Noise in excess of that permitted by Minn. Stat. § 169.693 and
Minn. Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, which establish motor vehicle
noise standards.
   ENGINE-RETARDING BRAKE. A dynamic brake, jake brake, Jacobs brake, C-brake,
Paccar brake, transmission brake or other similar engine-retarding brake system
which alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently releases
that compression.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust or permit
the discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle except through a muffler
that effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and complies with all
applicable State laws and regulations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to intentionally
use an engine-retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot or
alley within the City which causes abnormal or excessive noise from the engine
because of an illegally modified or defective exhaust system, except in an
emergency.
   (D)   Minn. Stat. §§ 169.69 and 169.693 (motor vehicle noise limits) and
Minn. Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, are hereby adopted by reference.
   (E)   Signs stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” may be installed at
locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise motorists of the
prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign stating “VEHICLE
NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” shall be installed on a state highway without a permit
from the Minnesota Department of Transportation. The provisions of this section
are in full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
§ 70.09 PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS.
   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 169.2151, the City is authorized to designate
pedestrian safety crossings on exclusive City streets where pedestrian safety
considerations require extra time for pedestrian crossing in addition to the
time recommended under the Minnesota Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
for pedestrian signals. The City may provide for timing of pedestrian signals
for such crossings, consistent with the recommendations of the uniform manual
for pedestrian signal timing at senior citizen and disabled pedestrian
crossings. The location of such crossings may be designated by resolution.
§ 70.10 CROSSINGS FOR SENIORS OR DISABLED PERSONS.
   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 169.215, the City may designate a crossing for
senior citizens or disabled persons on any exclusive City street in the
vicinity of a senior citizen housing project, senior citizen nursing home, or
residential care facility for disabled persons on the basis of an engineering
and traffic investigation prescribed by the Commissioner and subject to the
uniform specifications adopted by the Minnesota Commissioner of Transportation.
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets
of the City at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices,
marks, or painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb
immediately adjacent thereto, prohibit these acts.
   (B)   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 168B.035, the City Council may appoint as
many parking enforcement officers as are needed to enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The parking enforcement officers shall be subordinate to the City
Clerk. A parking enforcement officer is an individual whose services are
utilized by a law enforcement agency to provide parking enforcement and
administrative or clerical assistance and who is not a sworn and licensed
police officer. A parking enforcement officer’s duties shall not include
enforcement of the general criminal laws of the State, and the parking
enforcement officer does not have full powers of arrest or authorization to
carry a firearm on duty.
§ 71.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
City where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
§ 71.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may by resolution order the placing of signs, devices
or marks, or the painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion,
as evidenced by a finding of the City Council, the stopping, standing or
parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free movement
of traffic. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be official signs,
devices, marks or painting, and no person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle
in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated thereby.
   (B)   “No parking” signs may be placed by the City on any street of the City
to permit construction, repair, snow removal, street cleaning or similar
temporary activities. While the signs are in place, it shall be unlawful to
park any vehicle on the streets or portion thereof so posted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park in an area designated by
Council resolution and posted as a fire lane.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park a vehicle or permit it to
stand, whether attended or unattended, on an alley within the City, provided
that this does not prohibit the parking of vehicles for less than one hour on
an alley for the purpose of access to abutting property for loading or
unloading merchandise or other material when parking on the property itself is
not available.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park a motor vehicle in an area
designated by posted signs pursuant to Council resolution for certain types of
vehicles, unless the motor vehicle is one of the types of vehicles specifically
permitted.
   (F)   Every vehicle parked upon any street with a curb shall be parked
parallel to the curb, unless angle parking is designated by appropriate signs
or markings. On streets with a curb, the right-hand wheels of any vehicle
parked shall be within one foot of the curb. On streets without a curb, the
vehicle shall be parked to the right of the main traveled portion of the street
and parallel to it and in such a manner as not to interfere with the free flow
of traffic, unless angle parking is designated by appropriate signs or
markings.
§ 71.04 PARKING PROHIBITED AFTER SNOWFALL OF TWO INCHES OR MORE.
   (A)   After two inches or more of snow have accumulated, no motor vehicle
shall be left parked on any street or public way in the City until the street
is cleared on both sides of accumulated snow.
   (B)   Any police officer or City appointed parking enforcement officer who
finds a motor vehicle in violation of this section shall attempt to contact the
owner of the motor vehicle and require the owner to immediately move the motor
vehicle so as not to be in violation of this section. If the owner does not
immediately remove the motor vehicle or the owner cannot be located, the police
officer or City appointed parking enforcement officer is authorized to have the
motor vehicle removed at the owner's expense.
§ 71.05 REPAIRING OF VEHICLES.
   Minor repairs and tune-ups, such as replacement of spark plugs, spark plug
wires, thermostat, radiator or heater hoses, oil changes and brake jobs shall
be permitted on City streets; provided, that they can be accomplished within
the same day and completed by 10:00 p.m. All other repairs shall be considered
major repairs and shall not be permitted on any City street, unless the repairs
are made within an enclosed structure. Damage to City streets because of
repairs or lack of repairs shall be charged to the person responsible for the
damage to the City streets.
§ 71.06 PROHIBITING PARKING AREAS IN FRONT YARDS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   The construction, operation or maintaining a parking area, either
paved or unpaved, in the front yard of any lot is prohibited in any area zoned
for residential use. For the purpose of this section, front yard shall exclude
the driveway, and include that area between the sidewalk, or street line in the
event there is no sidewalk, and the front line of the principal building,
extending in both directions to the side lot lines.
   (B)   Use of that portion of a vacant lot within 30 feet of the sidewalk
lines for parking in an area zoned for residential use is prohibited.
   (C)   Driveways in any area zoned for residential use shall not exceed 25%
of the width at the front or side lot line. Where more than one driveway is
desired or required, they shall be at least 70 feet apart.
   (D)   The front part of any lot shall not be used for the parking of an
automobile, truck, trailer, tractor, recreational vehicle, camper, travel
trailer, camper top, tent, wagon, boat, boat trailer, storage pod or motor
home.
   (E)   No person, being the owner or having control of any building, shall
violate or fail to conform to any provision of this section, or fail to obey
any lawful order of an officer charged with its enforcement. Each and every day
on which any person continues to violate the provisions of this section, after
having been notified of the violation, shall constitute a separate offense.
This conviction shall not relieve any person from thereafter complying with the
provisions of this section, and shall be sufficient cause to refuse further
building or land use permits to the offender until a time as the orders have
been complied with.
§ 71.07 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any police officer or City appointed parking enforcement officer may order
the removal of a vehicle from a street to a garage or other place of safety
when the vehicle is left unattended and constitutes an obstruction to traffic
or hinders snow removal, street improvements or maintenance operations. The
vehicle shall not be released until the fees for towing and storage are paid in
addition to any fine imposed for violation of this chapter.
§ 71.08 PRIMA FACIE VIOLATION.
   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 169.34, Subd. 2, the presence of any motor vehicle
on any street when standing or parked in violation of this chapter is prima
facie evidence that the registered owner of the vehicle committed or authorized
the commission of the violation.
CHAPTER 72: SNOWMOBILES
§ 72.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to supplement Minn. Stat. §§ 84.81 to
84.915, and Minn. Stat. § 169, and Minn. Rules parts 6100.5000 through
6100.5800, with respect to the operation of snowmobiles. These statutes and
rules are incorporated herein by reference. This section is not intended to
allow what the State statutes and rules prohibit, nor to prohibit what the
State statutes and rules allow.
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder having the property in or title to
a snowmobile, or entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire strip of land traversed by a highway or street in
which the public owns the fee or an easement for roadway purposes.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway or street improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice,
steered by skis or runners.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare, roadway, alley or trail used for motor
vehicular traffic which is not an interstate, trunk, county-state aid, or
county highway.
§ 72.03 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of
Ch. 70 of this Code (Traffic Regulations) shall apply to the operation of
snowmobiles upon streets and highways, except for those relating to required
equipment, and except those which by their nature have no application.
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to enter, operate or stop a snowmobile
within the limits of the City:
      (1)   On the roadway of any street, except the most right-hand lane then
available for traffic or as close as practicable to right hand curb or edge of
the roadway, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle stopped in the
lane or proceeding in the same direction, or in making a left turn. Snowmobiles
may also be operated upon the outside slope of trunk, county-state aid and
county highways where the highways are so configured within the corporate
limits. The City Council may, pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 84.87, Subd. 3, adopt a
resolution designating certain City streets as available for snowmobile
operation and prescribe such time and speed limits as are necessary.
      (2)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel.
      (3)   On boulevards within any public right-of-way.
      (4)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of the property.
      (5)   Upon any school grounds, except as permission is expressly obtained
from responsible school authorities.
      (6)   On public property, playgrounds and recreation areas, except areas
previously listed or authorized for the use by resolution of the City Council,
in which case the use shall be lawful, and snowmobiles may be driven in and out
of those areas by the shortest route.
      (7)   On streets as permitted by this chapter at a speed exceeding 10
miles per hour.
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL AND OTHER VEHICLES
§ 73.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide reasonable regulations for
the use of recreational motor vehicles on public and private property in the
City.
      (1)   This chapter is not intended to allow what the Minnesota Statutes
prohibit nor to prohibit what the Minnesota Statutes expressly allow.
      (2)   It is intended to ensure the public safety and prevent a public
nuisance.
§ 73.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any all-terrain vehicle as defined by Minn. Stat. §
84.92.
   RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle and any vehicle
propelled or drawn by a self-propelled vehicle used for recreational purposes
including, but not limited to trail bike, off-highway motorcycle, as defined by
Minn. Stat. § 84.787, Subd. 7, motorized foot scooters as defined by Minn.
Stat. § 169.011, Subd. 46, mini truck as defined by Minn. Stat. § 169.011,
Subd. 40a, neighborhood electric vehicle as defined by Minn. Stat. § 169.011,
Subd. 47, medium-speed electric vehicle as defined by Minn. Stat. § 169.011,
Subd. 39, or other all-terrain vehicle as defined by Minn. Stat. § 84.92, Subd.
8, utility task vehicle, motorized go-carts, hovercraft or motor vehicle
licensed for highway operation which is being used for off-road recreational
purposes, but not including golf carts defined by §
73.07.
§ 73.03 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a recreational motor vehicle:
   (A)   On private property of another without specific written permission of
the owner of the property; (Written permission may be given by a posted notice
of any kind or description, so long as it specifies the kind of vehicles
allowed, that the owner, occupant or lessee prefers, such as by saying
“Recreational Vehicles Allowed,” “Trail Bikes Allowed,” “All-Terrain Vehicles
Allowed” or words substantially similar.)
   (B)   On publicly-owned land, including school, exclusive City streets, park
property, playgrounds, recreation areas and golf courses, except where
permitted by this chapter;
   (C)   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which
disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons;
   (D)   On a public sidewalk or walkway provided or used for pedestrian
travel;
   (E)   At a place while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
narcotics or habit-forming drugs;
   (F)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all the
surrounding circumstances;
   (G)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property or to cause injury or
damage thereto;
   (H)   On any public street, highway or right-of-way unless licensed and
registered pursuant to Minnesota law;
   (I)   To intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal, wild or
domestic;
   (J)   By halting any recreational motor vehicle carelessly or heedlessly in
disregard of the rights or the safety of others or in a manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property or in excess of 25
miles per hour on publicly-owned lands; and/or
   (K)   Within 150 yards of any public recreational area or gathering of
people. This provision does not apply to the occasional use of recreational
motor vehicles on private property for the purpose of loading or unloading it
from a trailer or for mechanically checking it;
   (L)   Without headlight and taillight lighted at all times if the vehicle is
equipped with headlight and taillight;
   (M)   Without a functioning stoplight if so equipped;
   (N)   Without a brake operational by either hand or foot;
   (O)   At a speed exceeding ten miles per hour on the frozen surface of
public waters within 100 feet of a person not on an all-terrain vehicle or
within 100 feet of a fishing shelter;
   (P)   Helmet and Seat Belts Required.
      (1)   A person less than 18 years of age shall not ride as a passenger or
as an operator of a vehicle regulated herein on public land, public waters, or
on a public road right-of-way unless wearing a safety helmet approved by the
Commissioner of Public Safety.
      (2)   A person less than 18 years of age shall not ride as a passenger or
as an operator of a vehicle regulated herein without wearing a seat belt when
such seat belt has been provided by the manufacturer.
   (Q)   All-terrain vehicles and passengers.
      (1)   No person under 18 years of age shall operate a Class 1 all-terrain
vehicle while carrying a passenger. A person 18 years of age or older may
operate a Class 1 all-terrain vehicle carrying one passenger. For the purposes
of this division a Class 1 all-terrain vehicle means an all- terrain vehicle
that has a total dry weight of less than 1,200 pounds.
      (2)   No person under 18 years of age shall operate a Class 2 all-terrain
vehicle while carrying a passenger. A person 18 years of age or older may
operate a Class 2 all-terrain vehicle while carrying a passenger, or up to the
number of passengers for which the vehicle was designed, whichever is greater.
For the purposes of this division a Class 2 all- terrain vehicle means an all-
terrain vehicle that has a total dry weight of 1,200 to 1,800 pounds.
§ 73.04 STREET CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No person under 12 years of age operating the vehicles regulated
herein shall make a direct crossing of any street, highway or public right-of-
way or operate a vehicle regulated herein on a public street, highway or road
right-of-way or operate a vehicle regulated herein on public lands or waters,
except that a person at least 10 years of age but under 12 years of age may
operate an all-terrain vehicle with an engine capacity up to 90cc on public
lands or waters if accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   (B)   Additional restrictions for all-terrain vehicles. An all-terrain
vehicle may make a direct crossing of a public road right-of-way provided:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the road and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick and
safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder of main- traveled way of the road hazard;
      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided road, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of the road with another public road; and
      (5)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on.
§ 73.05 MINIMUM EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Standard mufflers shall be properly attached and in constant operation
to reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for
operation. No person shall use a muffler cutout, by- pass, straight pipe or
similar device on a recreational motor vehicle motor. The exhaust system shall
not emit or produce a sharp popping or crackling sound.
   (B)   Brakes shall be adequate to control the movement of and to stop and
hold under any conditions of operation.
   (C)   At least one clear lamp shall be attached to the front with sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. The
head lamp shall be so that glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an
oncoming vehicle operator. It shall also be equipped with at least one red tail
lamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red
light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during the hours
of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. This equipment shall be
required and shall be in operating condition when the vehicle is operated
between the hours of one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before
sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility.
§ 73.06 DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC AREAS FOR USE.
   (A)   The Council may designate areas and exclusive City streets for use of
recreational motor vehicles by resolution. The areas designated may be changed
by the City Council. An up-to-date map of any designated park areas open for
recreational motor vehicle use shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Clerk, who shall provide on request a copy of the map together with the
applicable rules, regulations and this chapter to each person requesting the
information from the City.
   (B)   Unless designated by the City Council as an area for recreational
motor vehicles, the use on City park property and City streets shall be
unlawful.
§ 73.07 MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. The person driving and having physical control over the motorized
golf cart.
   MOTORIZED GOLF CART. Any passenger conveyance being driven with three or
four wheels with three or four low pressure tires that is limited in engine
displacement of less than 800 cubic centimeters and total dry weight less than
800 pounds.
   (B)   Motorized golf carts are permitted to operate only on City streets,
not state or federal highways, except to cross at designated intersections.
   (C)   Motorized golf carts may only be operated on designated roadways from
sunrise to sunset. They shall not be operated in inclement weather conditions
or at any time when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and
vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (D)   Motorized golf carts shall display the slow-moving vehicle emblem
provided for in Minn. Stat. § 169.045 Subd. 4, when operated on designated
roadways.
   (E)   Motorized golf carts shall be equipped with a wing-style rear view
mirror to provide the driver with adequate vision from behind as required by
Minn. Stat. § 169.70.
   (F)   The operator of a motorized golf cart may cross any street or highway
intersecting a designated roadway.
   (G)   Every person operating a motorized golf cart on designated roadways
has all the rights and duties applicable to the driver of any other vehicle
under the provisions of Minn. Stat. § 169, except when these provisions cannot
reasonably be applied to motorized golf carts and except as otherwise
specifically provided in Minn. Stat. § 169.045 Subd. 7.
   (H)   The number of occupants in the golf cart may not exceed the design
occupant load.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
93.   OPEN BURNING
CHAPTER 90: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
90.01   Damage to Property; Graffiti
   
90.02   Curfew for Minors
   
90.03   Consumption in Public Places
   
90.04   Fireworks
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Dogs and Cats
   
91.03   Non-Domestic Animals
   
91.04   Farm Animals
   
91.05   Impounding
   
91.06   Kennels
   
91.07   Barking, Damage, Cleaning
   
91.08   Seizure of Animals
   
91.09   Animals Presenting a Danger to Health and Safety of City
   
91.10   Diseased Animals
   
91.11   Dangerous and Potentially Dangerous Dogs
   
91.12   Dangerous Animals (Excluding Dogs)
   
91.13   Basic Care
   
91.14   Enforcing Officer
   
91.15   Interference with Officers
   
91.16   Fighting Animals
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
92.10   Public Nuisance
   
92.12   Public Nuisances Affecting Health
   
92.14   Public Nuisances Affecting Morals and Decency
   
92.16   Public Nuisances Affecting Peace and Safety
   
92.18   Nuisance Parking and Storage
   
92.19   Garbage and Rubbish
   
92.20   Building Maintenance and Appearance
   
92.21   Tree Diseases and Shade Tree Pest Control
   
92.22   Duties of City Officers
   
92.23   Abatement
   
92.24   Recovery of Cost
Weeds
   
92.30   Definitions; Exclusions
CHAPTER 93: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
93.10   Definitions
   
93.11   Burning Ban or Air Quality Alert
 
   
93.20   External Solid Fuel-Fired Heating Devices (Outdoor Wood Burning Stoves)
CHAPTER 90: GENERAL OFFENSES
§ 90.01 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY; GRAFFITI.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   GRAFFITI. In addition to its usual and customary meaning of defacing walls
or structures with messages or slogans, graffiti shall also mean any letter,
numeral, figure, emblem, insignia, picture, outline, character, spectacle,
delineation, announcement, word, phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch, inscription
or representation, wherein the contents thereof are visible to any member of
the general public and which contains references to sexual activity, diagrams
relating to sexual activity or sexual organs, references to criminal activities
or groups which promote or are involved in criminal activity, swearing or
fighting words, defamatory materials about any person, references to
relationships, or any marking of any kind whatsoever which results in damage
to, defacing of, marring of, or discoloring of any sidewalk, street, or other
public surface, any vehicle, any equipment, lamp, lamp post or other City
property, or of the exterior surface of a wall, fence, door, building or other
structure, whether publicly or privately owned.
   OWNER. Means and includes the owner of record of the subject property,
whether public or private, at the time of the placement or discovery of the
graffiti or at a subsequent time, the beneficial owner under a land trust, the
contract purchaser, or that person or persons or trust in whose name the
general taxes for the last preceding year were paid, except that owner shall
not include the City.
   (B)   Conduct Prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to inscribe, draw, or otherwise place
or cause to be placed any graffiti upon the surface of any building, structure,
wall or surface of other property that is publicly or privately owned.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian to knowingly
permit any minor child in his or her custody or control to violate division (B)
(1) of this section.
      (3)   The parent or legal guardian of a minor defendant who resides with
the parent or legal guardian at the time of the offense may be held liable for
any fine or condition of restitution or reparation imposed by a court upon a
minor for violation of this section; provided, that minor has not paid the fine
or made restitution or reparation within the time ordered by the court; and
further provided that the parent or legal guardian has been served with summons
or notice to appear whether in the original cause or in any subsequent
proceedings arising therefrom, including sentencing or collection actions, as
provided by law.
   (C)   Removal by Owner.
      (1)   Owner's Responsibility. It shall be the duty of the owner of the
structure or wall or other private property upon which any graffiti is placed
or made to remove, eradicate, or eliminate the inscription or representation
within 30 days of the occurrence unless granted additional time by the City
Council.
      (2)   Notice to Remove Graffiti. In the event the owner has failed to
eliminate the graffiti, the owner shall be notified by certified mail or
personal notice that he or she has 30 days from the date of the notice in which
to remove the graffiti. In the event that charges have been filed against the
person believed responsible for placement of the graffiti and the owner can
show to the City that there is a reasonable likelihood that the person will be
required to make restitution or restore the premises to its previous condition,
the owner may be given additional time to meet the removal requirements. In no
event shall the owner be granted more than a total of six months' time to
remove graffiti, but any extensions shall be based solely upon a reasonable
likelihood of apprehension and conviction of the person responsible. In the
absence of the reasonable likelihood, the owner is responsible for removal
within the time allowed in divisions (C)(1) and (2) of this section.
   (D)   Removal by the City. The City shall have the right but not the duty to
remove graffiti from the exterior of private property if the owner informs the
City of the presence of the graffiti and of the owner's inability to remove it.
Prior to the City entering any private property to remove graffiti, the owner
must sign a statement authorizing removal by the City and agreeing to pay the
reasonable costs of the removal and to allow the City to assess the costs if
the cost is not paid to the City. The owner must also sign a release holding
the City harmless from any claims or suits brought for damages pursuant to any
adverse or injurious effects of such chemicals or from the actions taken by the
City or its employees to remove the graffiti prior to the City commencing work
on the property.
§ 90.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   The provisions of Dakota County Ordinance No. 122 (Juvenile Curfew
Ordinance), with reference to definition of terms and hours, are hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this chapter as if set out in full.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor's household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
   OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the master
clock used by the County Sheriff’s Department.
   PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
   PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for providing
food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor. The person
providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another minor.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 12 years. No minor under the age of 12
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of:
         (a)   9:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday, and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
         (b)   10:00 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday and 5:00 a.m. the following
day.
      (2)   Minors age 12 to 14 years old. No minor age 12 to 14 years shall be
in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public
grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of amusement,
entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between the hours
of:
         (a)   10:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday, and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
         (b)   11:00 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday and 5:00 a.m. on the
following day.
      (3)   Minors aged 15 to 17 years old. No minor age 15 to 17 shall be in
or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds,
public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of amusement,
entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between the hours
of:
         (a)   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday, and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
         (b)    Any time between 12:01 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on any Saturday or
Sunday.
   (D)    Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor.
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor.
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor's
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor's presence at work.
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by school
authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly to or from an
official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the City, a civic
organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor's parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor.
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the City in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew.
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion.
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
City's designated law enforcement provider about the minor's presence.
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (E)    Duties of Person Legally Responsible for Minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (F)   Duties of Other Persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (G)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
City's designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (H)    Penalties.
      (1)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of §
90.02 may be adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional
alternatives set forth in Minn. Stat. § 260B.198.
      (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of §
90.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 90.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in a public
park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any public
place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
chapter, or where the consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
§ 90.04 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The use, display, possession, discharge or sale of any fireworks not
expressly permitted by Minn. Stat. § 624.20, Subd. 1(b) or (c), is strictly
prohibited.
   (B)   All other use, display or discharge of permitted consumer fireworks
must be conducted in a manner that minimizes the risk of fire or injury to
other persons or property.
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, domestic animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non- poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, farm
animals shall include members of the equine family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, turkeys, fowl (poultry, chickens, ducks, geese),
swine (including Vietnamese pot- bellied pigs), goats, bees, ratitae (ostriches
and emus), farm raised cervidae (caribous and mule deer), llamas and alpacas
and other animals associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, non-domestic animals shall include:
         (a)    Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
         (b)    Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
         (c)    Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a
dog, unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
         (d)    Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
         (e)    Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
         (f)    Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
   CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Animal Control Officer or other
person in charge of the pound for the release of any animal that has been taken
to the pound. A release permit may be obtained upon payment of a release fee,
and any maintenance costs incurred in capturing and impounding the animal. The
release fee shall be as established in
Chapter 34 of this Code.
§ 91.02 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at Large Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A
person, who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs on a leash and accompanied by a responsible
person or accompanied by and under the control and direction of a responsible
person, so as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash, shall be
permitted in streets or on public land unless the City has posted an area with
signs reading “Dogs Prohibited.”
   (B)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained, or transported within
the City shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed
veterinarian for:
         (a)   Rabies - with a live modified vaccine; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner's name and address, the animal's name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian's signature. Upon demand made by the City Clerk, the Animal
Control Officer or a police officer, the owner shall present for examination
the required certificate(s) of vaccination for the animal(s). In cases where
certificates are not presented, the owner or keeper of the animal(s) shall have
seven days in which to present the certificate(s) to the City Clerk or officer.
Failure to do so shall be deemed a violation of this section.
§ 91.03 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   Except as provided in Minn. Stat. § 346.155, it shall be illegal for any
person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for sale, any non-domestic animal
within the City. Any owner of a non-domestic animal at the time of adoption of
this Code shall have 30 days in which to remove the animal from the City after
which time the City may impound the animal as provided for in this section. An
exception shall be made to this prohibition for animals specifically trained
for and actually providing assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for
those animals brought into the City as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian
clinic, scientific research laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
§ 91.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   Farm animals may be kept in R-1 Residential and Rural Residential and
Agricultural zoning districts pursuant to the performance standards in this
section. An exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought
into the City as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific
research laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
   (B)   Chickens. The keeping of chickens is allowed in R-1 Residential and
Rural Residential and Agricultural districts pursuant to the following
performance standards:
      (1)   Chickens may not be kept on vacant lots;
      (2)   Number of chickens in R-1 Residential district.
         (a)   Lots up to 0.25 acres may not exceed two chickens;
         (b)   Lots in excess of 0.25 acres may not exceed five chickens.
      (3)   Number of chickens in Rural Residential and Agricultural district.
         (a)   Lots up to 0.25 acres may not exceed two chickens;
         (b)   Lots in excess of 0.25 acres and less than 0.5 acres may not
exceed five chickens.
         (c)   Lots in excess of 0.5 acres and less than two acres may not
exceed ten chickens; and
         (d)   Lots with more than two acres may have up to ten chickens, plus
five chickens per additional acre.
      (4)   No roosters shall be allowed in the R-1 Residential district;
      (5)   No chickens shall be kept inside a residential dwelling unless less
than six weeks old;
      (6)   Chickens shall be provided a secure and well-ventilated roofed
structure in compliance with zoning and building codes, and an attached fenced
yard;
      (7)   The roofed structure shall be fully enclosed, wind proof, have one
square foot window to 15 square feet of floor space and have a heat source to
maintain an adequate indoor temperature during extreme cold conditions;
      (8)   The floors and walls of the roofed structure shall be kept in a
clean, sanitary and healthy condition with all droppings and body excretions
collected daily and placed in a fire-proof covered container until applied as
fertilizer, composted or transported off the premises;
      (9)   Chickens shall not be allowed to free-range;
      (10)   The fenced yard enclosure shall be well drained so there is no
accumulation of moisture;
      (11)   A floor area or combination of the floor and fenced yard area for
keeping chickens shall not be less than ten square feet of floor space per
chicken;
      (12)   Roofed structures or fenced yard enclosures shall be set back a
minimum of ten feet from the nearest property line;
      (13)   No chickens may be kept or raised in a manner as to cause injury
or annoyance to persons on other property in the vicinity by reason of noise,
odor or filth; and
      (14)   No person owning or keeping chickens may permit the same to run at
large or enter upon the premises of another without permission, nor may such
chickens be kept, raised or permitted to go on any street, park, or public
ponding area. Any chickens at large in violation of this provision may be
impounded, and after being impounded for three days or more without being
reclaimed by the owner, may be destroyed or sold. A person reclaiming any
impounded chickens shall pay the cost of impounding and keeping the same.
   (C)   Other Farm Animals. The keeping of other farm animals is allowed in
Rural Residential and Agricultural district and R-1 Residential district
pursuant to the following performance standards:
      (1)   Minimum lot size for Rural Residential and Agricultural zoned
properties is two acres;
      (2)   Minimum lot size for R-1 Residential zoned properties is ten acres;
      (3)   Farm animals may not be kept on vacant lots;
      (4)   All farm animals must be so contained to prevent the animals from
escaping onto neighboring properties or injuring the public;
      (5)   No person shall be allowed to herd, drive or ride any animal over
and upon any grass, turf, boulevard, city park, cemetery, garden or lot without
specific permission from the owner;
      (6)   Proper care and shelter shall be provided to all horses as required
by Minn. Stat. § 346.38; and
      (7)   It shall be unlawful for any person to treat any farm animal or any
other animal in a cruel or inhumane manner.
   (D)   Animal Enclosures for Farm Animals.
      (1)   An animal enclosure shall be any building or portion thereof,
structure or area including pens, corrals, fenced yards, dog houses, kennels,
and outside runs that are principally used or designed for use as a place for
the keeping of animals.
      (2)   All accessory structures (regardless of size) used to shelter
domestic or farm animals must conform to the accessory structure requirements
of the property’s respective zoning district, the minimum accessory structure
setbacks of the property’s respective zoning district, as well as any stricter
requirements of this section.
      (3)   No encroachment shall be permitted in existing or required buffer
yard or drainage and/or utility easements.
      (4)   Any enclosed pen, corral, or any fenced yard enclosure, roofed
structure or building for farm animals other than chickens shall be setback a
minimum of 50-feet from the nearest property line. This 50-foot setback shall
not apply to open grazing or pasture areas.
      (5)   Screening and/or hard surface will be required if problems occur
with appearance, noise, odor, and sanitation as determined by the zoning
administrator.
§ 91.05 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. Any animal running at large is hereby declared a
public nuisance. Any Animal Control Officer or police officer may impound any
animal found running at large and shall give notice of the impounding to the
owner of the animal, if known. The Animal Control Officer or police officer
shall not enter the property of the owner of an animal found running at large
unless the officer has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or
has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided
for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal. In case the owner is unknown, the
officer shall post notice at the City office that if the animal is not claimed
within the time specified in division (C) of this section, it will be sold or
otherwise disposed of.
   (B)   Biting animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the City pound for a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of the time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for the confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner's choosing, not outside of the county in which this City is located, and
provide immediate proof of confinement in the manner as may be required, the
owner may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner's property.
   (C)   Reclaiming. For the purposes of this section regular business day
means a day during which the establishment having custody of the animal is open
to the public at least four consecutive hours between 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with humane treatment and
sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five regular business
days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under §
91.11 in which case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or the
times specified in §
91.11, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this Code or established by
resolution of the City Council:
      (1)    Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (2)   Valid certificate of vaccination for rabies and distemper shots is
required.
   (D)   Unclaimed Animals. At the expiration of the times established in
division (C) of this section, if the animal has not been reclaimed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the officer appointed to
enforce this section may dispose of the unclaimed animal in a manner permitted
by law. Any money collected under this section shall be payable to the City
Clerk.
§ 91.06 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition of Kennel. The keeping of five or more dogs on the same
premises, whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose
kept, shall constitute a “kennel”; except that a fresh litter of pups may be
kept for a period of three months before that keeping shall be deemed to be a
“kennel.”
   (B)   Kennel as a Nuisance. Because the keeping of five or more dogs on the
same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons in the
area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general aesthetic depreciation, the
keeping of five or more dogs on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel within the City.
§ 91.07 BARKING, DAMAGE, CLEANING.
   (A)   Habitual Barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner's or
caretaker's premises.
   (B)   Damage to Property. It shall be unlawful for any person's dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up Litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
§ 91.08 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any police officer or Animal Control Officer may enter upon private
property and seize any animal with the permission of the owner of the property,
if that person is also the owner of the animal, provided that the following
exist:
      (1)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Animal Control Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
      (2)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
91.07(A); the criteria for cruelty set out in §
91.13; or the criteria for an at large animal set out in §
91.02(A);
      (3)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one
previous complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that
the animal was at large at this address on a prior date; and
      (4)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of
the animal and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed
or have been ignored.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter the
property of the owner of an animal described in this section unless the officer
has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or has obtained a
warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal. If the officer has the permission of
the owner, a property manager, landlord, or other authorized person to enter
the property or has obtained a pass key from a property manager, landlord, or
other authorized person to have that key it shall not be considered
unauthorized entry, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal need not
be obtained; and written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place
if personal contact with the owner of the animal is not possible.
§ 91.09 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or the Animal Control Officer or
police officer, an animal presents an immediate danger to the health and safety
of any person, or the animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the
animal is in the process of attacking any person, the person or officer may
destroy the animal in a proper and humane manner whether or not the animal is
on the property of its owner. Otherwise, the person or officer may apprehend
the animal and deliver it to the pound for confinement under §
91.05. If the animal is destroyed, the owner or keeper of the animal destroyed
shall be liable to the City for the cost of maintaining and disposing of the
animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examination. If the animal is found
not to be a danger to the health and safety of the City, it may be released to
the owner or keeper in accordance with §
91.05(C).
§ 91.10 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at Large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the City, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the City, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal is not
required.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person, the Animal Control Officer or a police
officer. The officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If
the animal is found to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the
health and safety of the City, the officer shall cause the animal to be
painlessly killed and shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or
keeper of the animal killed under this section shall be liable to the City for
the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any
veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
§ 91.11 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Adoption by Reference. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
the regulatory and procedural provisions of Minn. Stat. §§ 347.50 to 347.565
(commonly referred to as the “Dangerous Dog Regulations”), are adopted by
reference.
   (B)   Definitions. Definitions in this section shall have the following
meanings:
      (1)   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has when unprovoked, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Has killed a domestic animal when unprovoked while off the
owner's property;
         (c)   Has been found to be potentially dangerous and after the owner
has notice of the same, the dog aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly
accepted as domesticated household pets.
      (3)   GREAT BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which creates a high probability
of death, or which causes serious permanent disfigurement, or which causes a
permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member
or organ or other serious bodily harm.
      (4)   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, corporation, organization,
department, or association owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, having an
interest in, or having care, custody or control of a dog.
      (5)   MAINTENANCE COSTS. Any costs incurred as a result of seizing an
animal for impoundment, including, but not limited to, the capturing,
impounding, keeping, treating, examining, securing, confining, feeding,
destroying, boarding or maintaining seized animals, whether these services are
provided by the City or the pound.
      (6)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has when unprovoked, inflicted a bite on a human or domestic
animal on public or private property;
         (b)   Has when unprovoked, chased or approached a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks or any public or private
property, other than the owner's property, in an apparent attitude of attack;
or
         (c)   Has a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (7)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the dog from escaping
and to provide protection for the dog from the elements. A proper enclosure
does not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other
structure that would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the dog from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the dog in any manner without human assistance. A pen or kennel
shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   A minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support post shall be one and one-fourth inch or larger steel pipe
buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided,
the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and openings in the wire shall not exceed two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches. The gate shall be self-closing and self-locking. The gate shall be
locked at all times when the dog is in the pen or kennel.
      (8)   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Bodily injury that involves a temporary
but substantial disfigurement, or that causes a temporary but substantial loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ or that causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
      (9)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the dog is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (C)   Declaration of dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
      (1)   A police officer, community service officer, animal control officer
or other authorized City employee may declare a dog to be dangerous or
potentially dangerous when the officer has probable cause to believe that a dog
is dangerous or potentially dangerous. The following factors will be considered
in determining a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog:
         (a)   Whether any injury or damage to a person by the dog was caused
while the dog was protecting or defending a person or the dog's offspring
within the immediate vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault.
         (b)   The size and strength of the dog, including jaw strength, and
the animal's propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals.
         (c)   Whether the dog has wounds, scarring, is observed in a fight, or
has other indications that the dog has been or will be used, trained or
encouraged to fight with another animal or whose owner is in possession of any
training apparatus, paraphernalia or drugs used to prepare such dogs to fight
with other animals.
      (2)   Beginning six months after a dog is declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous, an owner may request annually that the City review the
designation. The owner must provide evidence that the dog's behavior has
changed due to the dog's age, neutering, environment, completion of obedience
training or other factors. If enough evidence is provided, the City may rescind
the designation.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   The provisions of this section do not apply to dogs used by law
enforcement.
         (b)   Dogs may not be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous if
the threat, injury, or danger was sustained by a person who was:
            (i)   Committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner of the dog;
            (ii)   Provoking, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or who
can be shown to have a history of repeatedly provoking, tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the dog; or
            (iii)   Committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (D)   License Required. The owner must annually license dangerous and
potentially dangerous dogs with the City and must license a newly declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog within 14 days after notice that a dog
has been declared dangerous or potentially dangerous. Regardless of any appeal
that may be requested, the owner must comply with the requirements of Minn.
Stat. § 347.52 (a) and (c) regarding proper enclosures and notification to the
City upon transfer or death of the dog, until and unless a hearing officer or
court of law reverses the declaration.
      (1)   Process for Dangerous Dogs. The City will issue a license to the
owner of a dangerous dog if the owner presents sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   Written proof that there is a surety bond by a surety company
authorized to conduct business in Minnesota in the sum of at least $300,000,
payable to any person injured by a dangerous dog, or receipt of a copy of a
policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance company authorized to do
business in Minnesota in the amount of at least $300,000, insuring the owner
for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog. Such surety bond or
insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the bond or policy will
be made unless the City is notified in writing by the surety company or the
insurance company at least ten days prior to such cancellation;
         (c)   The owner has paid the annual license fee for dangerous dogs as
established in in
Chapter 34 of this Code.
         (d)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification number
of the microchip must be provided to the City. If the microchip is not
implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the City at the owner's expense;
and
         (e)   The owner provides proof that the dog has been sterilized. If
the owner does not sterilize the dog within 30 days, the City may seize the dog
and sterilize it at the owner's expense.
      (2)   Process for Potentially Dangerous Dogs. The City will issue a
license to the owner of a potentially dangerous dog if the owner presents
sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   The owner has paid the annual license fee;
         (c)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
potentially dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and
identification number of the microchip must be provided to the City. If the
microchip is not implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the City at the
owner's expense.
      (3)   Inspection. A pre-license inspection of the premises to ensure
compliance with the City Code is required. If the City issues a license to the
owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, the City shall be allowed at
any reasonable time to inspect the dog, the proper enclosure and all places
where the animal is kept.
      (4)   Warning Symbol. The owner of a dangerous dog licensed under this
section must post a sign with the uniform dangerous dog warning symbol on the
property in order to inform children that there is a dangerous dog on the
property. The sign will be provided by the City upon issuance of the license.
      (5)   Tags. A dangerous dog licensed under this section must wear a
standardized, easily identifiable tag at all times that contains the uniform
dangerous dog symbol, identifying the dog as dangerous. The tag shall be
provided by the City upon issuance of the license.
      (6)   License Fee. The City will charge the owner an annual license fee
for a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog as established by
Chapter 34 of this Code.
   (E)    Properly Restrained in Proper Enclosure or Outside of Proper
Enclosure. While on the owner's property, an owner of a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog must keep it in a proper enclosure. Inside a
residential home, there must be a secured area maintained where the dog will
stay when persons other than family members are present. If the dog is outside
the proper enclosure, the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial
chain or leash no longer than four feet and under the physical restraint of an
adult. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will prevent the dog from
biting any person or animal but that will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration.
   (F)    Notification requirements to City.
      (1)   Relocation or Death. The owner of a dog that has been declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous must notify the City Clerk in writing if the
dog is to be relocated from its current address or if the dog has died. The
notification must be given in writing within 30 days of the relocation or
death. The notification must include the current owner's name and address, and
the new owner's name and the relocation address. If the relocation address is
outside of the City, the City may notify the local law enforcement agency of
the transfer of the dog into its jurisdiction.
      (2)   Renter's Obligations. A person who owns or possess a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog and who will rent property from another where the dog
will reside must disclose to the property owner prior to entering the lease
agreement and at the time of any lease renewal periods that the person owns or
possesses a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog that will reside at the
property. A dog owner, who is currently renting property, must notify the
property owner within 14 days of City notification if the owned dog is newly
declared as dangerous or potentially dangerous and the owner keeps the dog on
the property.
      (3)   Transfer of Ownership into the City. No dog that has been
previously determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous by another
jurisdiction shall be kept, owned or harbored in the City unless the dog's
owner complies with the requirements of this section prior to bringing the dog
into the City. Dogs in violation of this division are subject to impoundment
and destruction.
   (G)   Seizure. Animal control may immediately seize any dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog if:
      (1)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous, the dog is not validly licensed and no
appeal has been filed;
      (2)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or surety coverage as
required or such required insurance is cancelled;
      (3)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure;
      (4)   The dog is outside the proper enclosure and not under proper
restraint, as required by §
91.11(E);
      (5)   After 30 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the dog is not sterilized, as required by §
91.11(D)(1)(e);
      (6)   The dog's microchip has been removed.
   (H)   Reclamation. A dog seized under §
91.11(G) may be reclaimed by the owner of the dog upon payment of maintenance
costs and presenting proof to animal control that the requirements of this
section have been met. A dog not reclaimed under this division within seven
days may be disposed of and the owner will be liable to the City for
maintenance costs. A person claiming an interest in a seized dog may prevent
disposition of the dog by posting a security in an amount sufficient to provide
for the dog's maintenance costs. The security must be posted with the City
within seven days of the seizure inclusive of the date seized.
   (I)    Subsequent Offenses: Seizure. If a person has been convicted of
violating a provision of this section, and the person is charged with a
subsequent violation relating to the same dog, the dog may be seized. If the
owner is convicted of the crime for which the dog was seized, the court may
order that the dog be destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner pay
the maintenance costs. If the owner is not convicted and the dog is not
reclaimed by the owner within seven days after the owner has been notified that
the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be disposed of in manner permitted by
law.
   (J)    Notice, Hearings.
      (1)   Notice. After a dog has been declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous or has been seized for destruction, the City shall give notice by
delivering or mailing it to the owner of the dog, or by posting a copy of it at
the place where the dog is kept, or by delivering it to a person residing on
the property, and telephoning, if possible. The notice shall include:
         (a)   A description of the seized dog; the authority for and purpose
of the declaration and seizure; the time, place, and circumstances under which
the dog was declared; and the telephone number and contact person where the dog
is kept;
         (b)   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the declaration and that failure to do so within 14 days of the date
of the notice will terminate the owner's right to a hearing;
         (c)   A statement that if an appeal request is made within 14 days of
the notice, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of Minn.
Stat. § 347.52, paragraphs (a) and (c) regarding proper enclosures and
notification to the City upon transfer or death of the dog, until such time as
the hearing officer issues an opinion;
         (d)   A statement that if the hearing officer affirms the dangerous
dog declaration, the owner will have 14 days from receipt of that decision to
comply with all requirements of Minn. Stat. § 347.51, 347.515, 347.52, and
applicable portions of this Chapter.;
         (e)   A form to request a hearing; and
         (f)   A statement that if the dog has been seized, all maintenance
costs of the care, keeping, and disposition of the dog pending the outcome of
the hearing are the responsibility of the owner, unless a court or hearing
officer finds that the seizure or impoundment was not reasonably justified by
law.
      (2)   Right to Hearing.
         (a)   After a dog has been declared dangerous, potentially dangerous
or has been seized for destruction, the owner may appeal in writing to the City
within 14 days after notice of the declaration or seizure. Failure to do so
within 14 days of the date of the notice will terminate the owner’s right to a
hearing. The owner must pay a $100 fee for an appeal hearing.
         (b)   The appeal hearing will be held within 14 days of the request.
The hearing officer must be an impartial employee of the City or an impartial
person retained by the City to conduct the hearing.
         (c)   If the declaration or destruction is upheld by the hearing
officer, actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000, as well as
all maintenance costs, will be the responsibility of the dog's owner. The
hearing officer shall issue a decision on the matter within ten days after the
hearing. The decision shall be delivered to the dog's owner by hand delivery or
registered mail as soon as practical and a copy shall be provided to the City.
The decision of the hearing officer is final.
   (K)   Destruction of Certain Dogs. The Police Chief and/or hearing officer
are authorized to order the destruction or other disposition of any dog, after
proper notice is given pursuant to §
91.11(J) and upon a finding that:
      (1)   The dog has habitually destroyed property or habitually trespassed
in a damaging manner on property of persons other than the owner;
      (2)   The dog has been declared dangerous, the owner's right to appeal
hereunder has been exhausted or expired, and the owner has failed to comply
with the provisions of this section;
      (3)   It is determined that the dog is infected with rabies;
      (4)   The dog inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on
public or private property without provocation;
      (5)   The dog inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private
property without provocation;
      (6)   The dog bit multiple human victims on public or private property in
the same attack without provocation;
      (7)   The dog bit a human on public or private property without
provocation in an attack where more than one dog participated in the attack; or
      (8)   The dog poses a danger to the public's health, safety or welfare.
In determining whether the dog poses a danger to the public's health, safety or
welfare, the following factors may be considered:
         (a)   The dog weighs more than 20 pounds;
         (b)   The strength of the dog, including jaw strength;
         (c)   The dog's tolerance for pain;
         (d)   The dog's tendency to refuse to terminate an attack;
         (e)   The dog's propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals;
         (f)   The dog's potential for unpredictable behavior;
         (g)   The dog's aggressiveness;
         (h)   The likelihood that a bite by the dog will result in serious
injury.
   (L)    Concealing of Dogs. No person may harbor, hide or conceal a dog that
the City has the authority to seize or that has been ordered into custody for
destruction or other proper disposition.
   (M)    Dog Ownership Prohibited.
      (1)   Except as provided below, a person shall not own a dog if the
person has been:
         (a)   Convicted of a third or subsequent violation of §
91.11(D), (E) or (F) or similar ordinance in another jurisdiction, or Minn.
Stat. §§ 347.51, 347.515 or 347.52;
         (b)   Convicted of 2nd degree manslaughter due to negligent or
intentional use of a dog under Minn. Stat. § 609.205 (1) or (4).
         (c)   Convicted of gross misdemeanor harm caused by a dog under Minn.
Stat. § 609.226, Subd. 1.
      (2)   Any person who owns a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog and is
found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this section or had owned
a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog but never achieved compliance with
this section may be prohibited from ownership or custody of another dog for a
period of five years after the original declaration. Any dog found to be in
violation, may be impounded until due process is completed, pursuant to §
91.11(J).
      (3)   If any member of a household is prohibited from owning a dog
pursuant to §
91.11(M)(1) or (2), unless specifically approved with or without restrictions
by the City, no person in the household is permitted to own a dog.
   (N)   Dog Ownership Prohibition Review. Beginning three years after a
conviction under §
91.11(M)(1) that prohibits a person from owning a dog, and annually thereafter,
the person may request in writing to the County Sheriff’s Department that the
City review the prohibition. The City may consider such facts as the
seriousness of the violation or violations that led to the prohibition, any
criminal convictions, or other facts that the City deems appropriate. The City
may rescind the prohibition entirely or rescind it with limitations. The City
also may establish conditions a person must meet before the prohibition is
rescinded, including, but not limited to, successfully completing dog training
or dog handling courses. If the City rescinds a person's prohibition and the
person subsequently fails to comply with any limitations imposed by the City or
the person is convicted of any animal violation involving unprovoked bites or
dog attacks, the City may permanently prohibit the person from owning a dog in
this state.
   (O)   Penalties.
      (1)   Unless stated otherwise, any person who violates a provision of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person who is convicted of a second or subsequent violation of
any provision of §
91.11(D), (E), or (F) is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.
      (3)   Any person who violates §
91.11(M), whether an owner or household member, is guilty of a gross
misdemeanor.
§ 91.12 DANGEROUS ANIMALS (EXCLUDING DOGS).
   (A)   Attack by an Animal. It shall be unlawful for any person's animal to
inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to dogs as
regulated by §
91.11.
   (B)   Destruction of Dangerous Animal. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance with
the terms established by this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public or
private property;
         (b)   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
         (d)   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. As defined in §
91.11.
      (4)   UNPROVOKED. As defined in §
91.11.
   (D)   Designation as Potentially Dangerous Animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic
animal as stated in division (C)(2). When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the potentially
dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially
dangerous.
   (E)   Evidence Justifying Designation. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
      (1)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (C)
(1).
      (2)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1).
   (F)    Authority to Order Destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
   (G)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The Animal Control
Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain an
order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal from
a court of competent jurisdiction, unless the animal is already in custody or
the owner consents to the seizure and destruction of the animal.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City Clerk’s
office shall be admissible for consideration by the Animal Control Officer
without further foundation. After considering all evidence pertaining to the
temperament of the animal, the City Council shall make an order as it deems
proper. The City Council may order that the Animal Control Officer take the
animal into custody for destruction, if the animal is not currently in custody.
If the animal is ordered into custody for destruction, the owner shall
immediately make the animal available to the Animal Control Officer. If the
owner does not immediately make the animal available, the Animal Control
Officer shall obtain an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the
destruction of the animal from a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found to be
dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (H)   Stopping an Attack. If any police officer or Animal Control Officer is
witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer
may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an
end and prevent further injury to the victim.
   (I)   Notification of New Address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in
writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner's name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
   (J)   Dangerous Animal Requirements.
      (1)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of
an animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
         (a)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in §
91.12(C)(3);
         (b)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property;
         (c)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
         (d)   If the animal is outside the proper enclosure, the animal must
be muzzled (if physically possible depending on the type of animal) and
restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed six feet in length)
and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of age or older. The
muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the animal from biting any person or
animal, but will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration;
         (e)   The animal shall have a microchip implant as provided by Minn.
Stat. § 347.515;
         (f)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Officer shall
be registered with the County within 14 days after the date the animal was so
deemed and provide satisfactory proof thereof to the Animal Control Officer.
         (g)   If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date with
rabies vaccination.
      (2)   Seizure. The Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any
dangerous animal if the owner does not meet each of the above applicable
requirements within 14 days after the date notice is sent to the owner that the
animal is dangerous. Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a
summons and petition upon the City and filing it with the district court.
      (3)   Reclaiming Animals. A dangerous animal seized under §
91.12(J)(2), may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control that each
of the applicable requirements under §
91.12(J)(1), is fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this section within 14
days may be disposed of as provided under §
91.12(F), and the owner is liable to the City for costs incurred in confining
and impounding the animal.
   (K)   Subsequent Offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under §
91.12 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by animal control. The
owner may request a hearing as defined in §
91.12(G). If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the Animal Control Officer shall order the animal destroyed
in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of confining
the animal. If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for
which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal under the
provisions of §
91.12(J)(3). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days
after the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the
animal may be disposed of as provided under §
91.12(F) and the owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred
in confining, impounding and disposing of the animal.
§ 91.13 BASIC CARE.
   (A)   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating their pet in a humane manner will be subject to the
penalties provided in this section.
   (B)   Dogs and Cats. Dogs and cats must be provided the following basic
care.
      (1)   Food. Dogs and cats must be provided with food of sufficient
quantity and quality to allow for normal growth or the maintenance of body
weight. Feed standards shall be those recommended by the National Research
Council.
      (2)   Water. Dogs and cats must be provided with clean, potable water in
sufficient quantity to satisfy the animal's needs or supplied by free choice.
Snow or ice is not an adequate water source.
   (C)   Accumulation of animal manure shall be removed at such periods of time
to ensure no leaching occurs into nearby wells or surface water, or
objectionable odor exists.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to keep any animal in a structure
infested by rodents, vermin, flies or insects or inadequate for protection
against the elements.
§ 91.14 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Council is hereby authorized to appoint an animal control officer(s) to
enforce the provisions of this section. In the officer's duty of enforcing the
provisions of this section, he or she may from time to time, with the consent
of the City Council, designate assistants.
§ 91.15 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs, cats or other animals and
convey them to the pound while engaged in that operation. Nor shall any
unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or
attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance
with this chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder the
officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
§ 91.16 FIGHTING ANIMALS.
   (A)   The provisions of Minn. Stat. § 343.31, are adopted herein by
reference.
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Promote, engage in, or be employed in the activity of cockfighting,
dogfighting, or violent pitting of one pet or companion animal as defined in
Minn. Stat. § 346.36, Subd. 6, against another of the same or a different kind;
      (2)   Receive money for the admission of a person to a place used, or
about to be used, for that activity;
      (3)   Willfully permit a person to enter or use for that activity
premises of which the permitter is the owner, agent, or occupant; or
      (4)   Use, train, or possess a dog or other animal for the purpose of
participating in, engaging in, or promoting that activity.
      (5)   Purchase a ticket of admission or otherwise gain admission to the
activity of cockfighting, dogfighting, or violent pitting of one pet or
companion animal against another of the same or a different kind.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
§ 92.10 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A person must not act, or fail to act in a manner that is or causes a public
nuisance. For purpose of this chapter, a person who does any of the following
is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by any other part of this Code
to be a public nuisance.
§ 92.12 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)    Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)    Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)    Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)    All public exposure of people having a contagious disease;
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
   (L)    All unnecessary and annoying vibrations.
§ 92.14 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place.
§ 92.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 48 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
      (1)   Duty of Owners and Occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 48 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by City. The City Clerk or other person designated by the
City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt
and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 48 hours after any matter has been
deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The City Clerk or other
designated person shall keep a record showing the cost of removal adjacent to
each separate lot and parcel and may assess the costs against the property
pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 429.101.
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, which are
hereby incorporated by reference into this Code;
   (E)    The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational device
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (F)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of people
giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet, or repose of
another person. When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating
such a noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than
the owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to
disperse immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a
police officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has
knowledge of the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the
disturbance is stopped;
   (G)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this Code or other applicable law;
   (H)    Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (I)    Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any
use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to
gather, obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (J)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (K)   All machinery in any public place, or so situated or operated on
private property that is not properly secured from unauthorized access, or not
properly flagged, coned or otherwise identified as to be a danger to the
public;
   (L)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (M)    Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery,
household appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive
to the harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of
vegetation among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health
or safety hazards from accumulation;
   (N)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (O)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (P)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (Q)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (R)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone;
   (S)   Unlawful Noise.
      (1)   Noises Prohibited.
         (a)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made
any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
this section.
         (b)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so
out of repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
         (c)   Loading, unloading, unpacking. No person shall create loud or
excessive noise in loading, unloading, or unpacking any vehicle.
         (d)   Radios, paging systems, and the like. No person shall use or
operate or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, paging system, machine or other device for the production or
reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly audible manner as to
unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or other device
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at the property line of the structure or building in which it is
located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet if
the source is located outside a structure or building, shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
         (e)   Schools, churches, hospitals, and the like. No person shall
create any excessive noise on a street, alley or public grounds adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church or hospital when the noise unreasonably
interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs or unduly annoys its
occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs indicate the presence of such
institution.
      (2)   Hourly Restriction of Certain Operations.
         (a)   Domestic Power Equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from
this provision.
         (b)   Refuse Hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction Activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (T)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel.
§ 92.18 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of Nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it (a) obstructs views on streets and private property, (b)
creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas, (c) prevents the full use of
residential streets for residential parking, (d) introduces commercial
advertising signs into areas where commercial advertising signs are otherwise
prohibited, (e) decreases adjoining landowners' and occupants' enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood, and (f) otherwise adversely affects property
values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful Parking and Storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of non-permanent structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in
the front-yard area of residential property.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by a fence or other screening.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit on
residential property, except as otherwise permitted or required by the City
because of nonresidential characteristics of the property. This maximum number
does not include vehicles of occasional guests who do not reside on the
property
      (4)   Requirements and Prohibitions. Required parking and loading areas
and the driveways providing access to them shall not be used for storage,
display, sales, rental or repair of motor vehicles or other goods or for the
storage of inoperable vehicles or snow.
   (C)   Inoperable or Abandoned Motor Vehicles.
      (1)   Adoption by Reference. Minn. Stat. § 168B, and Minn. Rules Ch.
7035, are hereby adopted by reference. This Code §
92.18 (C) is adopted under the authority of Minn. Stat. § 168B.09, Subd. 2.
      (2)   Definitions: For the purposes of this subdivision, an inoperable or
abandoned motor vehicle means a motor vehicle as defined in Minnesota Statutes
§ 168B.011, Subd. 2 and in a condition described by one of the following:
         (a)   On public property for a period of more than 48 hours, or more
than four hours when it is properly posted, or in violation of either this Code
or Minnesota Statutes;
         (b)   On private property without consent of the person in control of
the property;
         (c)   Disabled: meaning partially or completely dismantled or
appearing either to be undrivable or to be lacking any of those parts of a
motor vehicle which are essential to the functioning of the vehicle to the
extent of making the vehicle inoperable, unless allowed under subsection (C)(3)
of this Section;
         (d)   Without license plates;
         (e)   With license plates which have an expiration date more than 90
days prior to the date of inspection; or
         (f)   An abandoned motor vehicle shall also mean a motor vehicle as
defined in Minnesota Statutes § 168B.011, Subd. 2, which has remained in the
impound lot of a towing company, licensed by the City, for more than 30 days
after a written notice to remove the motor vehicle has been sent by registered
mail to the registered owner.
      (3)    Exemptions: For the purpose of this Chapter, the following
vehicles are not to be considered abandoned motor vehicles:
         (a)   A classic or pioneer car, as defined in Minn. Stat. § 168.10,
provided that it is kept secure and as long as it has substantial potential for
further use consistent with its usual functions;
         (b)   Vehicles on the premises of a motor vehicle and parts dealer,
junkyard, junk dealer, motor vehicle salvage dealer, automobile repair garage
or body shop which is authorized by this Code;
         (c)   A vehicle kept inside an enclosed garage or storage building or
kept out of view from any street, road or alley by a privacy fence; or
         (d)   A vehicle which is registered to the owner or occupant of the
property, and which is being kept for repair on the property, provided that the
vehicle is not kept for longer than 90 days in a disabled condition and its
condition does not present a hazard and provided that only one disabled vehicle
is kept on the property.
      (4)   Violation to Abandon Motor Vehicle. Any person who abandons a motor
vehicle on any public or private property, without the consent of the person in
control of the property, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (5)   Authority to Impound Vehicles.
         (a)    Removal and Disposal: If a vehicle is in violation of this
chapter, the owner or possessor of the vehicle will be responsible for removing
the vehicle to a duly licensed junkyard or other authorized place of deposit or
storage following receipt of a written demand by the City. In the event the
owner or possessor of the vehicle cannot be located, then it will be the
responsibility of the owner of the premises to remove the vehicle to a duly
licensed junkyard or other authorized place of deposit or storage.
         (b)    Impoundment of Vehicles: The City Clerk or his or her designee
or any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by the City
may take into custody and impound any abandoned or junk vehicle if the vehicle
is on public property or private property in violation of this chapter,
following the expiration of the notice.
         (c)    Disposition of Impounded Vehicles: In all cases of impoundment,
the City shall serve notice on the owner of the property pursuant to Minn.
Stat. §168B.06. The owner or lienholder may reclaim the vehicle pursuant to
Minn. Stat. §168B.07. If the vehicle is not reclaimed, it may be disposed of at
auction or sale pursuant to Minn. Stat. §168B.08.
      (6)   May Purchase at Auction. Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 15.054, no
officer or employee of the City shall sell or procure for sale or possess or
control for sale to any other officer or employee of the City, any property or
materials owned by the City except pursuant to conditions provided in this
section. Property or materials owned by the City and not needed for public
purposes, may be sold to an employee of the City after reasonable public notice
at a public auction or by sealed response, if the employee is not directly
involved in the auction or process pertaining to the administration and
collection of sealed responses. Prior to such auction or collection of sealed
responses, public notice of at least one week’s published notice must be
provided. An employee of the City may purchase no more than one motor vehicle
from the City at any one auction. This section shall not apply to the sale of
property or materials acquired or produced by the City for sale to the general
public in the ordinary course of business. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit an employee of the City from selling or possessing for sale public
property if the sale or possession for sale is in the ordinary course of
business or normal course of the employee’s duties.
§ 92.19 GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   DEFINITIONS. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Organic refuse resulting from the preparation of food, and decayed
and spoiled food from any source.
   RUBBISH. All inorganic refuse matter such as tin cans, glass, paper, ashes
and the like.
   (B)   SANITATION COLLECTION SERVICE REQUIRED. Every person owning, managing,
operating, leasing or renting any premises or any place where garbage or
rubbish accumulates shall subscribe to a sanitation collection service.
   (C)   CONTAINER REQUIRED; PLACEMENT.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every person whose garbage and refuse is
collected by the sanitation collection service to provide a container or
containers for garbage and refuse, sufficient in size and number to accommodate
and securely keep all garbage and refuse that may accumulate between
collections. Garbage containers shall be watertight and constructed of a solid
and durable grade of metal, plastic, or paper material.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every person whose garbage and refuse is
collected by the sanitation collection service to place their garbage
containers directly behind the curbline of the street abutting their property
or in the absence of a curb directly behind the ditch line abutting their
property. In no event shall containers be placed in the street or on the
sidewalk or in any manner placed where the containers will interfere with
vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   (D)   CONTAINERS TO BE KEPT SANITARY AND SECURE. All containers shall be
kept clean and free from accumulation of any substance remaining attached to
the inside of the container which would attract or breed flies, mosquitoes, or
other insects. The area surrounding garbage containers shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition. The contents of all receptacles shall be
protected so that the wind cannot scatter the contents over the streets, alleys
or other property within the City. All containers shall be securely closed in a
manner as to prevent the scattering of the contents and to make them
inaccessible to insects, rodents and other animals. Failure to comply with this
section shall be a public nuisance.
   (E)   PROHIBITED ACTS.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep, throw or deposit any
garbage, trash, debris, stagnant water or dead animal into, upon or along any
public property or private property of another, except as may be specifically
provided by this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or otherwise in control
of any premises within the City to permit any of the conditions described in
subdivision (1) to exist upon property owned or controlled by him or her after
having actual or constructive notice thereof.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place in any container any
material other than as specifically provided in this chapter.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or maintain garbage
or trash except as provided for by this chapter.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any burning match,
charcoal, ember, or other material in any container used for the disposal of
garbage.
   (F)   NONRESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS; CONTAINER TYPES; COLLECTION SCHEDULES.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or person otherwise in charge of multi-
family, commercial, institutional or industrial premises within the City to
cause all garbage and trash accumulated on the premises to be placed in
disposable containers, or commercial-type containers. Commercial-type
containers may be used and may be placed at a location on the premises as
arranged between the customer and the collector, but subject to review by the
City at any time. Failure to comply with this section shall be a public
nuisance.
   (G)   MANNER OF COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION.
      (1)   Disposable containers shall be placed at a location on the premises
which is readily accessible to the collector.
      (2)   The collection, removal and disposal of all garbage, trash and
brush shall be carried on in a systematic, efficient manner to keep the City in
a clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   All vehicles used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and trash shall be equipped with suitable covers which shall be used to prevent
blowing or scattering of refuse while garbage and trash are being transported
for disposal.
§ 92.20 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of Nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they (a) are unsightly, (b) decrease adjoining landowners and
occupants’ enjoyment of their property and neighborhood, and (c) adversely
affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters, and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents, and other similar projections must
be structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
§ 92.21 TREE DISEASES AND SHADE TREE PEST CONTROL.
   (A)   Declaration of Policy. The health of the trees in the City is
threatened by shade tree pests, and the loss or ill health of trees growing
upon public and private property substantially depreciates the value of
property within the City and impairs the safety, good order, general welfare
and convenience of the public. In addition to and in accordance with Minn.
Stat. §§ 89.001, 89.01 and 89.51 through 89.64, the provisions of this section
are adopted to attempt to control and prevent the spread of these shade tree
pests.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The City shall have control of all street trees, shrubs,
and other plantings now or hereafter in any street, park, public right-of-way
or easement, or other public place within the City limits, and shall have the
power to plant, care for, maintain, remove, and replace such trees, shrubs and
other plantings.
   (C)   Declaration of a Shade Tree Pest. The Council may declare any thing
threatening to cause significant damage to a shade tree or community forest as
defined by Minn. Stat. § 89.001, to be a shade tree pest and prescribe control
measures to effectively eradicate, control or manage the shade tree pest
including necessary timelines for action.
   (D)   Public Nuisances Declared. A shade tree pest is a public nuisance.
   (E)   Shade Tree Pest Nuisances are Unlawful. It is unlawful for any person
to permit any public nuisance as defined in this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the City. The nuisance may be
abated as provided in this section.
   (F)   Abatement of Shade Tree Pest Nuisances.
      (1)   In abating a nuisance declared by ordinance under divisions (C) and
(D), the organism, condition or plant and any tree, wood or material identified
as injurious to the health of shade trees shall be removed or effectively
treated so as to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the spread of the
shade tree pest. Such abatement procedures shall be carried out in accordance
with the control measures and areas prescribed by ordinance according to
divisions (C) and (G) and (H).
   (G)   Inspection. Inspections shall be conducted pursuant to City Code §
10.20.
   (H)   Abatement. Abatements shall be conducted pursuant to City Code § 92.
   (I)   Declared shade tree pests. The following are declared to be shade tree
pests:
      (1)   Oak Wilt. Oak Wilt is declared a shade tree pest and is defined as
any living or dead tree, log, firewood, limb, branch, stump or other portion of
a tree from any species of the genus Quercus existing within the control area
defined that has bark attached and that exceeds three inches in diameter or ten
inches in circumference and contains to any degree any spore or reproductive
structures of the fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum.
      (2)   Emerald Ash Borer. Emerald Ash Borer is declared a shade tree pest
and is defined as an insect that attacks and kills ash trees. The adults are
small, iridescent green beetles that live outside of trees during the summer
months. The larvae are grub or worm-like and live underneath the bark of ash
trees.
      (3)   Dutch Elm Disease. Dutch Elm Disease is declared a shade tree pest
and is defined as a disease of elm trees caused by the fungus Ophiostoma ulmi
or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi, and includes any living or dead tree, log, firewood,
limb, branch, stump or other portion of a tree from any species of the genus
Ulmus existing within the control area defined that has bark attached and that
exceeds three inches in diameter or ten inches in circumference and could
contain bark beetles or any spore or reproductive structures of the fungus
Ophiostoma ulmi or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi.
§ 92.22 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of this Chapter, the Police Department, or Sheriff or person
designated by the City Council under §
10.20, if the City has at the time no Police Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace officer or designated person shall
have the power to inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions
to prevent the commission and maintenance of public nuisances. Except in
emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and safety, no police
officer or designated person shall enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the owner,
resident or other person in control of the property, unless the officer or
person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20 of this Code.
§ 92.23 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of Violation. Written notice of violation shall be served on
the owner of record and occupant of the premises either in person or by mail or
personal service. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is
unknown, or the owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of
violation, notice of violation shall be served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council Hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record and occupant
of the premises either in person or by mail or personal service. If the
premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of
record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council hearing, notice
of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council Order. Written notice of any City Council
order shall be served in person or by registered or certified mail.
   (B)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer or designated person determines
that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the
City, the officer or person designated may notify in writing the owner of
record and occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be
taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be
abated and shall be served as provided in §
92.23 (A)(1). If the notice of violation is not complied with within the time
specified, the officer or designated person shall report to the City Council.
Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner and occupant, hold
a hearing and determine that the condition identified in the notice of
violation is a nuisance. Upon a finding of a nuisance, the City has the
authority to enter upon the property and abate the public nuisance. In abating
the nuisance, the City may go to whatever extent necessary to complete the
abatement of the public nuisance, including obtaining a court order. The City
may by private contract cause the abatement of the public nuisance. If any
material derived from the abatement is salvageable, the City may treat the
property as abandoned pursuant to City Code § 33.
   (C)   If the City performs the work pursuant to City Code §
92.23 (B) above, the City will maintain a record showing the cost of the work
attributable to each separate lot and parcel, including administrative costs.
Abatement costs shall include, but are not limited to, the cost of abatement,
the cost of investigation, such as title searches, inspection and testing, the
cost of notification, filing costs and administrative costs, including an
overhead charge of up to 25% for administrative costs.
   (D)   Emergency Procedure; Summary Enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the officer or designated person shall determine that a
public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the City and that
delay in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health,
safety or welfare. The officer or designated person shall notify in writing the
occupant and owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance and of the
City's intention to seek summary enforcement and the time and place of the City
Council meeting to consider the question of summary enforcement. The City
Council shall determine whether or not the condition identified in the notice
to the owner and occupant is a nuisance, whether public health, safety or
welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement required to
complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this section, and may order
that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is not
immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (E)   Immediate Abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the City,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
§ 92.24 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal Liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the City or a person who has caused a public nuisance on a property
not owned by that person shall be personally liable for the cost to the City of
the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other official shall
prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount
shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in Minn. Stat. §
429.061, if the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on private
property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public sidewalks, the growth of
weeds on private property or outside the traveled portion of streets, or
unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk shall, on or before September
1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along
with all other charges as well as other charges for current services to be
assessed under Minn. Stat. § 429.101 against each separate lot or parcel to
which the charges are attributable. The City Council may then spread the
charges against the property under that statute and other pertinent statutes
for certification to the County Auditor and collection along with current taxes
the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the City
Council may determine in each case.
WEEDS
§ 92.30 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated City
official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance violation
that shall conform to Minn. Stat. § 18.83, Subd. 2.
   MEADOW VEGETATION. Grasses and flowering broad-leaf plants that are native
to, or adapted to, the state of Minnesota, and that are commonly found in
meadow and prairie plant communities, except weeds as defined herein.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal title
or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-of-
way, easement, license or lease.
   WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION. Includes but is not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be limited
to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild
Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
      (2)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as Berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
      (3)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers, or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding eight inches;
      (4)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of
annuals and perennial plants;
      (5)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or
crops.
      (6)   Any other weed designated by Minn. Stat. § 18.77, Subd. 8 as
noxious.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   Owners Responsible for Trimming, Removal
      (1)   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting,
or disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of eight inches in height.
   (D)   These provisions shall not apply to an area established with meadow
vegetation if:
      (1)   The prior vegetation is eliminated, and the meadow vegetation is
planted through transplanting or seed by human or mechanical means; and
      (2)   A sign is posted on the property in a location likely to be seen by
the public, advising that a meadow or prairie is being established. This sign
must be no smaller than ten inches square, no larger than one square foot, and
no higher than three feet tall.
   (E)   Notice of Violations.
      (1)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in
violation of this subchapter, a person designated by the City Council shall
make an inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding
the condition. The designated representative shall forward written notification
in the form of a “Destruction Order” to the property owner or the person
occupying the property as that information is contained within the records of
the City Clerk. The notice shall be served in writing by regular mail or posted
at the property. The notice shall provide that within three days after the
receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be removed by the
property owner or person occupying the property.
      (2)   All notices are to be in writing and filed with the City Clerk.
   (F)   Appeals.
      (1)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of
objections with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding
weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City
Council. It is the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate that the
matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not
otherwise in violation of this subchapter, and should not be subject to
destruction under the subchapter.
      (2)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council.
   (G)   Abatement and Assessment by the City. In the event that the property
owner shall fail to comply with the “Destruction Order” within three days and
has not filed a notice within 48 hours to the City Clerk of an intent to
appeal, the City Council may employ the services of City employees or outside
contractors and remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful
means. No person shall enter the property to abate the nuisance, except with
the permission of the owner, resident or other person in control of the
property or has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
All costs for the abatement are the responsibility of the property owner and if
not paid within 30 days after receipt of an invoice, all costs shall be
assessed against the property pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 429.101.
CHAPTER 93: OPEN BURNING
§ 93.10 DEFINITIONS.
   The provisions of Minn. Stat. §§ 88.16 to 88.22 regarding open burning, are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter as if fully set
forth at this point.
   (A)   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL, and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the City.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a “recreational fire” as defined herein. Mobile cooking devices
such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers, and propane or
natural gas devices are not defined as “open burning.”
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than three
feet in height, contained within the border of a “recreational fire site” using
dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the
property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for
recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans, and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety
hazards will not be created. No more than one recreational fire is allowed on
any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by
non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only and which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a
“recreation fire site” as defined herein. Recreational fire sites shall not be
located closer than 25 feet to any structure or combustible material.
   RUNNING FIRE. An attended fire allowed to spread through surface vegetative
matter under controlled conditions for the purpose of vegetative management,
forest management, game habitat management, or agricultural improvement.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as starter
fuels and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   VEGETATIVE MATERIALS. Dry leaves, dry grass clippings, twigs, branches, tree
limbs, untreated or unpainted wood that contains no glues or resins, and other
similar materials. Paper and cardboard are not considered vegetative materials.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, manufactured
fireplace logs, charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. “Wood”
does not include wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil
soaked, or treated with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used
for recreational fires when cut into three foot lengths.
   (B)   PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
      (1)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of oils,
petroleum fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials, or other
materials which produce excessive or noxious smoke such as but not limited to:
tires, railroad ties, treated, painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar
paper, insulation, composition board, sheet rock, wiring, paint or paint
fillers.
      (2)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of: hazardous
waste or materials from salvage operations; solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process; materials from a service or commercial
establishment; or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
      (3)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
      (4)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of any leaves
or grass clippings.
   (C)   PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING. No person shall start or allow any
open burning on any property in the City without first having obtained an open
burn permit, except that a permit is not required for any fire which is a
recreational fire as defined in §
93.10.
   (D)   PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
      (1)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
         (a)   Elimination of fire or health hazard that cannot be abated by
other practical means.
         (b)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction.
         (c)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other alternative methods are
not practical.
         (d)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on-site, diseased or
infected nursery stock, diseased beehives.
         (e)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber and wood
shakes generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical.
         (f)   Running fires.
      (2)   Fire training permits can only issued by the Minnesota Department
of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Permits for the operation of permanent tree and brush burning sites
may only be issued by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
   (E)   PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES. Open burning permits
shall be obtained by making application on a form prescribed by the Department
of Natural Resources and adopted by the Fire Department. The permit application
shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals
for reviewing and processing those applications.
   (F)   PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
      (1)   If the established criteria for the issuance of an open burning
permit are not met, the application will be denied.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and
permit fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals, if he or
she reasonably believes necessary, may require a preliminary site inspection to
locate the proposed burn site, note special conditions, and set dates and time
of permitted burn and review fire safety considerations.
   (G)   PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
      (1)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be
responsible for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in
effect. Every open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder
or his or her competent representative. The open burning site shall have
available, appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as set out
in the fire safety plan.
      (2)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the
permit holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be
allowed to smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the
permit holder to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter, available
for inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA
representative or DNR forest officer.
      (3)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation
of all general conditions, special conditions, and the burn event safety plan
as established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including but not limited to fire
suppression and administrative fees.
   (H)   REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT. An open burning permit is subject
to revocation at the discretion of DNR forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals. Reasons for revocation include but are not
limited to a fire hazard existing or developing during the course of the burn,
any of the conditions of the permit being violated during the course of the
burn, pollution or nuisance conditions developing during the course of the
burn, or a fire smoldering with no flame present.
   (I)   DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT. If established criteria for the
issuance of an open burning permit are not met during review of the
application, it is determined that a practical alternative method for disposal
of the material exists, or a pollution or nuisance condition would result, or
if a burn event safety plan cannot be drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire
Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals, these officers may deny the
application for the open burn permit.
§ 93.11 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   (A)   The designated fire official is authorized to determine when
conditions make open burning potentially hazardous and declare a burning ban
within the City.
   (B)   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the City or
Department of Natural Resources has officially declared a burning ban due to
potential hazardous fire conditions or when the MPCA has declared an Air
Quality Alert.
§ 93.20 EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICES (OUTDOOR WOOD BURNING
STOVES).
   (A)   DEFINITIONS.
      (1)   EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICE. A device designed for
external solid fuel combustion so that usable heat is derived for the interior
of a building, and includes solid fuel-fired stoves, solid fuel-fired cooking
stoves, and combination fuel furnaces or boilers which burn solid fuel. Solid
fuel-fired heating devices do not include natural gas-fired fireplace logs or
wood-burning fireplaces or wood stoves in the interior of a dwelling.
      (2)   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, company or other
association.
      (3)   STACKS OR CHIMNEYS. Any vertical structure incorporated into a
building and enclosing a flue or flues that carry off smoke or exhaust from a
solid fuel-fired heating device, especially, the part of such a structure
extending above a roof.
   (B)   REQUIREMENTS FOR OPERATION.
      (1)   Any dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities, or any use of an external solid fuel-fired heating
device to burn solid fuels other than those solid fuels for which the external
solid fuel-fired heating device was designed, is declared a public nuisance.
      (2)   No person may install, use or operate an external solid fuel fired
heating device on a lot less than four acres in size.
      (3)   All stacks or chimneys must be so constructed to withstand high
winds or other related elements and in accordance to the specifications of the
manufacturer of the external solid fuel-fired heating device. The stack height
shall be a minimum of 25 feet above ground level, but shall also extend at
least as high as the height of the roofs of residents within 500 feet. All
stacks or chimneys must be of masonry or insulated metal with a minimum six-
inch flue.
      (4)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of 50 feet from all property lines.
      (5)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of ten feet from any principal or accessory structure.
   (C)   FUELS.
      (1)   Only fuels designed for burning in an external solid fuel-fired
heating device may be burned. No garbage may be burned in an external solid
fuel-fired heating device.
      (2)   The only fuel permitted to be burned is untreated fuel. Wood may
not be treated, processed, stained, finished or painted - specifically
prohibited woods include plywood, particle board and similar products. Other
fuels, such as corn, shall not contain any additives, treatments or chemicals.
No petroleum products or processed materials of any kind may be burned.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   General Licensing Provisions
      
111.   Commercial Amusements
      
112.   Liquor Regulations
      
113.   Tobacco Regulations
      
114.   Peddlers and Solicitors
      
115.   Regulating Lawful Gambling
      
116.   Regulation of Special Events
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses Required to Engage in Certain Businesses
   
110.02   Application for License
   
110.03   Issuance of License
   
110.04   Date and Duration of License
   
110.05   License Not Transferable
   
110.06   License Certificate to be Displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or Suspension
CHAPTER 111: COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Bowling; Billiards and Pool
   
111.03   Amusement Devices
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Adoption of State Law by Reference
   
112.02   City May be More Restrictive than State Law
   
112.03   Definitions
Licensing
   
112.20   Number of Licenses which may be Issued
   
112.21   Term and Expiration of Licenses
   
112.22   Kinds of Liquor Licenses
   
112.23   License Fees; Pro Rata
   
112.24   Council Approval to Grant or Deny a License
   
112.25   Application for License
   
112.26   Description of Premises
   
112.27   Applications for Renewal
   
112.28   Investigation
   
112.29   Prohibitions on Issuance
   
112.30   Conditions of License
   
112.31   Hours and Days of Sale
   
112.32   Minors on Premises
   
112.33   Restrictions on Purchase and Consumption
   
112.34   Suspension and Revocation
CHAPTER 113: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License Required; Prohibited Licensees
   
113.04   Application for License
   
113.05   Action on Application; Investigation
   
113.06   License Fee
   
113.07   Term of License; Renewals
   
113.08   Conditions of License
   
113.09   Compliance Checks and Inspections
   
113.10   Prohibited Acts
   
113.11   Revocation or Suspension of License
   
113.12   License Penalties
   
113.13   Other Penalties
   
113.14   Exceptions and Defenses
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
114.01   Purpose and Definitions
   
114.02   Exceptions to Definitions
   
114.03   Licensing; Exemptions
   
114.04   License Ineligibility
   
114.05   License Suspension and Revocation
   
114.06   License Transferability
   
114.07   Registration
   
114.08   Prohibited Activities
   
114.09   Exclusion by Placard
CHAPTER 115: REGULATING LAWFUL GAMBLING
Section
   
115.01   Adoption of State Law by Reference
   
115.02   City may be More Restrictive than State Law
   
115.03   Purpose
   
115.04   Definitions
   
115.05   Lawful Gambling Permitted
   
115.06   Council Approval
   
115.07   Application and Local Approval of Premises Permits
   
115.08   Local Permits
   
115.09   Revocation and Suspension of Local Permit
   
115.10   License and Permit Display
   
115.11   Notification of Material Changes to Application
   
115.12   Contribution of Net Profits to Fund Administered by City
   
115.13   Designated Trade Area
   
115.14   Records and Reporting
   
115.15   Hours of Operation
CHAPTER 116: REGULATION OF SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose and Findings
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Permit Required
   
116.04   Application for Permit
   
116.05   Issuance of Permit, Conditions and Posting
   
116.06   Exceptions to the Permit
   
116.07   Deposit Required
 
   116.99   Penalty
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN BUSINESSES.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by Title XI of this Code or by any other ordinance
of the City or provision of this Code without first applying for and obtaining
a license from the City Clerk or other duly authorized issuing authority.
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk or other authorized official in
writing upon forms to be furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name, address, and telephone number, and the
full name of each officer, partner or business associate, if applicable;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for the preceding five years;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise, goods or services to be sold;
      (7)   If a motor vehicle is to be used, a full description of the motor
vehicle, including the make, model, year, color, license number, and vehicle
registration (VIN) number of the vehicle.
      (8)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Any change in the information required by subdivision (A) of this
section must be reported to the City Clerk or other authorized official within
14 days of that change.
   (C)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing on the basis of the original application, unless otherwise provided.
However, if a request for renewal is not submitted to the City Clerk or other
authorized official within 21 days after the date of expiration for the
preceding license, the applicant must fill out an original application.
   (D)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (E)    It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
§ 110.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of a completed application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, the City Council shall consider and issue the license.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein specified
and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31 of the year
issued. However, at any time after December 1, licenses may be issued for the
next calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full annual fee will be
required of licensees irrespective of the date of issuance of the license.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred from person to person or place to place.
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the premises the license certificate. Other licensees
shall carry their licenses at all times, and whenever requested by any officer
or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be suspended or revoked by the City Council for the
following reasons:
      (1)   For conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the
time of issuance, would have been valid grounds for its denial;
      (2)   For any misrepresentation of a material fact in the application
discovered after issuance of the license;
      (3)   For any misrepresentation or materially false statement made in the
course of carrying on the trade, business or profession;
      (4)   For violation of any provision of this chapter or other Federal,
State or municipal law or ordinance relating to the operation of the business
or enterprise for which the license has been issued; or
      (5)   Upon conviction of a licensee for any Federal, State or municipal
law or ordinance involving the creation of a nuisance, a breach of the peace,
interference with the rights of property owners, or any other offense
constituting a threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
   (B)   The suspension or revocation shall become effective following a
hearing, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard. The notice of hearing
shall contain a written summary of the reasons for the suspension or
revocation, and include the date, time and location of the hearing. The notice
shall be delivered by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address
given on the licensee's application. If the Council suspends the license, the
dates of suspension shall be established by the City Council. Any order of
suspension or revocation shall include written findings and shall be served on
the licensee.
CHAPTER 111: COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
§ 111.01 BOWLING; BILLIARDS AND POOL.
   Each proprietor of a billiard or pool table or of a bowling alley, or a
combination of both, shall pay an annual license fee in an amount established
in
Chapter 34 of this Code.
§ 111.03 AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   The term “coin-operated mechanical amusement device” means any
machine, which upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disc, may be
operated by the public generally for use as a game, entertainment or amusement,
whether or not registering a score. It includes such devices as marble
machines, pinball machines, skill ball, mechanical grab machines, mechanical
rides intended for use by children, such as merry-go-rounds, horses, ferris
wheels, and the like; carnival, fair, and/or festival rides, and all similar
games, operations or transactions under whatever name they may be indicated.
   (B)   A person, firm, corporation or association must not display for public
use any coin- operated mechanical amusement device without obtaining a license
for it and paying the fee or fees as established by
Chapter 34 of this Code. Applications for a license must be made to the City
Clerk.
   (C)   The license or licenses obtained must be posted permanently and
conspicuously at the location of the machine in the premises where the machine
is to be operated.
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of Minn. Stat. § 340A, with reference to the definition of
terms, conditions of operation, restrictions on consumption, provisions
relating to sales, hours of sale, and all other matters pertaining to the
retail sale, distribution, and consumption of intoxicating liquor and 3.2
percent malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this
Chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of the City Council that all
future amendments to Minn. Stat. § 340A are hereby adopted by reference or
referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this chapter is
adopted.
§ 112.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of Minn. Stat. § 340A.509 to
impose, and has imposed in this chapter, additional restrictions on the sale
and possession of alcoholic beverages within its limits beyond those contained
in Minn. Stat. § 340A.
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in Minn. Stat. § 340A.101, the
following terms are defined for purposes of this chapter:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2 percent malt,” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2
percent malt liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a “restaurant” as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by Minn. Stat. § 157.16, and meet the definition of either a
“Category 1 establishment,” “Category 2 establishment” or “Category 3
establishment” as defined in Minn. Stat. § 157.16, Subd. 3(d). An establishment
which serves prepackaged food that receives heat treatment and is served in the
package or frozen pizza that is heated and served, shall not be considered to
be a restaurant for purposes of this chapter unless it meets the definitions of
“Category 1 establishment”, “Category 2 establishment” or “Category 3
establishment.”
LICENSING
§ 112.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a City may issue.
The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a larger
number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized by
Minn. Stat. § 340A. If a larger number of licenses in a particular category has
been authorized by a referendum held under the provisions of Minn. Stat. §
340A.413, Subd. 3, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
§ 112.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying City consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 112.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   (A)   3.2 percent malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to
golf courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and baseball teams
competing in a league established by the Minnesota Baseball Association or to a
person holding a concessions or management contract for beverage sales at a
ballpark for the purposes of summer town ball games, and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2 percent malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2 percent malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to
a club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off- sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
112.23 shall not exceed $240 or a greater amount which may be permitted by
Minn. Stat. § 340A.408, Subd. 3.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by Minn. Stat. § 340A.101, and this
chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers, theaters, clubs or
congressionally chartered veteran’s organizations, resorts as defined by Minn.
Stat. § 157.15, Subd. 11, and exclusive liquor stores.
      (1)   Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under §
112.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in Minn. Stat. § 340A.408,
Subd. 2(b).
      (2)   The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at a
community festival held within the City under the provisions of Minn. Stat. §
340A.404, Subd. 4(b).
      (3)   The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the City, under
the provisions of Minn. Stat. § 340A.404, Subd. 4(a); however, the licensee is
prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor to any person attending or
participating in an amateur athletic event being held on the premises.
   (F)    Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
112.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
112.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by Minn. Stat. §
340A.504, Subd. 3(b).
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years; a political committee
registered under state law; or a state university. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the City shall issue no more than 12
days’ worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
   (I)    On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of
Public Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at
least 25 guests at one time and meet the criteria of Minn. Stat. § 340A.404,
Subd. 5, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
112.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
Minn. Stat. § 340A.4011, Subd. 1, and to theaters that meet the criteria in
Minn. Stat. § 340A.404 Subd. 1(b). The fee for an on-sale wine license
established by the Council under the provisions of §
112.23 shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt
liquor with a content over 3.2 percent (strong beer) without an additional
license.
   (J)    One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the City sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
112.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by Minn. Stat. §
340A.414, Subd. 6. Consumption and display permits shall expire on March 31 of
each year.
   (L)    Culinary class limited on-sale licenses may be issued to a business
establishment not otherwise eligible for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license
that, as part of its business, conducts culinary or cooking classes for which
payment is made by each participant or advance reservation required. The
license authorizes the licensee to furnish to each participant in each class,
at no additional cost to the participant, up to a maximum of six ounces of wine
or 12 ounces of intoxicating malt liquor, during and as part of the class, for
consumption on the licensed premises only.
   (M)   Temporary off-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued for the off-sale of wine at an
auction. A license issued under this subdivision authorizes the sale of only
vintage wine of a brand and vintage that is not commonly being offered for sale
by any wholesaler in Minnesota. The license may authorize the off-sale of wine
for not more than three consecutive days provided not more than 600 cases of
wine are sold at any auction. The licenses are subject to the terms, including
license fee, imposed by §
112.23.
   (N)   Brew pub on-sale intoxicating liquor or on-sale 3.2% malt liquor
licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued
to brewers who operate a restaurant in their place of manufacture and who meet
the criteria established at Minn. Stat. § 340A.24. Sales under this license at
on-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year. If a brew pub licensed under
this section possesses a license for off-sale under division (O) below, the
brew pub’s total combined retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed
3,500 barrels per year, provided that off-sales may not total more than 500
barrels.
   (O)   Brewer off-sale malt liquor license, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued to a brewer that is a licensee
under division (N) above and otherwise meets the criteria established as Minn.
Stat. § 340A.24. Off-sale of malt liquor shall be limited to the legal hours
for off-sale at exclusive liquor stores in the City. Malt liquor sold off-sale
must be removed from the premises before the applicable off-sale closing time
at exclusive liquor stores. All malt liquor sold under this license shall be
packaged in the manner required by Minn. Stat. § 340A.301, Subd. 12. Sales
under this license may not exceed 500 barrels per year. If a brewer licensed
under this section possesses a license under division (N) above, the brewer’s
total retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per
year, provided that off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels.
   Brewer off-sale malt liquor licenses may also be issued, with approval of
the Commissioner, to a holder of a brewer’s license under Minn. Stat. §
340A.301, Subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) and meeting the criteria established by Minn.
Stat. § 340A.28. The amount of malt liquor sold at off-sale under this license
may not exceed 128 ounces per customer per day. The amount of malt liquor sold
at off-sale may not exceed 500 barrels annually. Off-sale of malt liquor shall
be limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive liquor stores in the
jurisdiction in which the brewer is located, and the malt liquor sold off-sale
must be removed from the premises before the applicable off-sale closing time
at exclusive liquor stores. Packaging of malt liquor for off-sale under this
license must comply with the provisions of Minnesota Rules, parts 7515.1080 to
7515.1120.
   (P)    Brewer temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued,
with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, to brewers who
manufacture fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year for the on-sale
of intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the
municipality sponsored by the brewer.
   (Q)   Brewer taproom license may be issued to the holder of a brewer’s
license under Minn. Stat. § 340A.301 Subd. 6(c), (i) or (j). A brewer’s taproom
license authorizes on-sale of malt liquor produced by the brewer for
consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one brewery location owned by the
brewer. A brewer may have only one taproom license and may not have an
ownership interest in a brewer licensed under Minn. Stat. § 340A.301 Subd. 6
(d). A brewer taproom license may not be issued to a brewer that brews more
than 250,000 barrels of malt liquor annually or a winery that produces more
than 250,000 gallons of wine annually. Within ten days of issuing a brewer
taproom license the City Clerk will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of
the licensee’s name, address, trade name and the effective date and expiration
date of the license. The City Clerk will inform the Commissioner of Public
Safety of a license transfer, cancellation, suspension, or revocation during
the license period.
   (R)    A cocktail room license (on-sale) may be issued to the holder of a
state microdistillery license or distilled spirits manufacturer license. A
cocktail room license authorizes on-sale of distilled liquor produced by the
distiller for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one distillery
location owned by the distiller. The holder of a cocktail room license may also
hold a license to operate a restaurant at the distillery. No more than one
cocktail room license may be issued to any distiller. No single entity may hold
both a cocktail room and taproom license and a cocktail room and taproom
license may not be co-located. Within ten days of the issuance of a cocktail
room license, the City shall inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of the
licensee’s name and address and trade name, and the effective date and
expiration date of the license. The City shall also inform the commissioner of
public safety of a cocktail room license transfer, cancellation, suspension, or
revocation during the license period.
   (S)    A microdistiller off-sale license may be issued to the holder of a
state microdistillery license. A microdistiller off-sale license authorizes
off-sale of up to a total of 750 milliliters per customer per day of product
manufactured on-site provided the product is also available for distribution to
wholesalers.
   (T)    A microdistiller temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license may be
issued to the holder of a state microdistillery license. A microdistillery
temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license authorizes on-sale of
intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the City sponsored
by the microdistillery.
§ 112.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the City shall exceed any limit
established by Minn. Stat. § 340A for a liquor license.
   (B)   The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the license and
other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws and this
chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing mailed
notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees at least
30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the City. License fees shall be paid as established in
Chapter 34 of this Code. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (D)    Off-sale intoxicating liquor licensees may request a reduction in
their annual license fee by the amount specified in Minn. Stat. § 340A.408 if
at the time of initial application or renewal they:
      (1)   Agree to have a private vendor approved by the City train all
employees within 60 days of hire and annually thereafter in laws pertaining to
the sale of alcohol, the rules for identification checks, and the
responsibilities of establishments serving intoxicating liquors;
      (2)   Post a policy requiring identification checks for all persons
appearing to be 30 years old or less;
      (3)   Establish a written cash award and incentive program to award
employees who catch underage drinkers and a written penalty program to punish
employees in the event of a failed compliance check;
      (4)   Failure to abide by the provisions of this division may result in
suspension of the license until the conditions of the fee reduction are met and
may result in suspension and/or revocation of the license pursuant to §
112.34 of this chapter.
§ 112.24 COUNCIL APPROVAL TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council has authority to grant or deny the application for any license.
§ 112.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the City, containing such information as the type of
license applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license
will operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the
applicant is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has
been in that business at that place, and other information as the Council may
require from time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license shall be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety
and shall also contain the information required in this section. The form shall
be verified and filed with the City. No person shall make a false statement in
an application.
   (B)   Financial Responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in Minn. Stat. § 340A.409, with regard to liability under Minn.
Stat. § 340A.801. This proof will be filed with the City and the Commissioner
of Public Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to Minn. Stat. § 340A.409.
Operation of a business which is required to be licensed by this chapter
without having on file with the City at all times effective proof of financial
responsibility is a cause for revocation of the license.
§ 112.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
§ 112.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the City.
§ 112.28 INVESTIGATION.
   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the City shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee, which shall be
in addition to any license fee.
§ 112.29 PROHIBITIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the City to any one person.
   (B)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the City are delinquent and unpaid.
   (C)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under State law.
   (D)    No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the school or church to
the closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
§ 112.30 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an “on-sale” license shall receive
training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training
shall be provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training
shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)    Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, City
employee or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)    Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law
and of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
   (F)    Failure by an off-sale intoxicating liquor licensee who has received
a fee reduction pursuant to §
112.23(E) of this chapter to abide with the provisions of §
112.23(E).
§ 112.31 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by Minn.
Stat. § 340A.504, except that the City Council may, by resolution or ordinance,
provide for more restrictive hours than state law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor in an on-sale
licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally
occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor to remain upon any
table, bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30
minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)    Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
§ 112.32 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquor
are sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be
employed as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing
services in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-
purpose building serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2
percent malt liquor are sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
§ 112.33 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of Minn. Stat. § 340A.414
which has been approved by the Council, and no person shall consume liquor in
any such place.
§ 112.34 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
Minn. Stat. §§ 14.57 to 14.70. The Council may act as the hearing body under
that act, or it may contract with the Office of Administrative Hearings for a
hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or Minn. Stat. § 340A, or any rules promulgated under that chapter as
they may be amended:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2 percent malt liquor, the
license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three year period, at least
one day suspension, in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension, in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any three year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension, in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or State
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (C) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.
   (D)   In addition to the provisions of §
112.34 pertaining to suspension or revocation, administrative financial
penalties may be imposed, as set by
Chapter 34 of this Code.
CHAPTER 113: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   Because the City recognizes that many persons under the age of 21 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess, or use tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco-related devices, and electronic delivery devices, and such sales or
provision to persons under the age of 21 years are violations of both State and
Federal laws; and because studies, which the City hereby accepts and adopts,
have shown that most smokers begin smoking before they reach the age of 21
years, and that those persons who reach the age of 21 years without having
started smoking are significantly less likely to begin smoking; and because
smoking has shown to be the cause of several serious health problems which
subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of government; this Chapter
shall be intended to regulate the sale, possession, and use and provision of
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, and electronic delivery
devices for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect
persons under 21 against the serious effects associated with the illegal use of
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, and electronic delivery
devices and to further the official public policy of the State in regard to
preventing young people from starting to smoke as stated in Minnesota Statutes
§ 144.391.
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS: The system the City uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices,
and electronic delivery devices are following and complying with the
requirements of this Chapter. Compliance checks shall involve the use of
persons at least 17 years of age, but under 21 years of age as authorized by
this Chapter. Compliance checks shall also mean the use of persons at least 17
years of age, but under 21 years of age who attempt to purchase tobacco,
tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, or electronic delivery devices for
educational, research and training purposes as authorized by State laws. The
age requirements for persons participating in compliance checks under this
section shall not affect the age requirements in Federal law for persons
participating in Federally required compliance checks.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICES: Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
Electronic delivery devices include, but are not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as electronic cigarettes, electronic cigars,
electronic pipes, vape pens, modes, tank systems, or under any other product
name or descriptor. Electronic delivery device includes any component part of a
product, whether or not marketed or sold separately.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED: The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or packaging of
snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this Section shall not be
considered "individually packaged".
   LOOSIES: The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette or any other tobacco product that has been removed from its packaging
and sold individually. The term loosies does not include individual cigars with
a retail price, before any sales tax, of more than $2.00 per cigar.
   MOVABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Shall refer to any form of business operated out
of a truck, van, automobile, recreational vehicle or other type of vehicle or
transportable shelter and not a fixed address, storefront or other permanent
type of structure authorized for sales transactions.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products,
or tobacco related devices are available to the general public. "Retail
establishments" shall include, but not be limited to, grocery stores,
convenience stores, and restaurants.
   SALE: Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other
consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING: Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products, or
tobacco related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices, without the assistance
or intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee. The assistance or
intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco related device between the customer and the licensee or
employee. "Self-service merchandising" shall not include vending machines.
   TOBACCO OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including, but not limited to, cigarettes; cigars; pipe tobacco; snuff; fine
cut or other chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff flowers; cavendish;
shorts; plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos; refuse scraps; clippings;
cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in such manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing, or smoking.
   TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES: Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling
papers, or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used in a
manner which enables the chewing, sniffing, smoking or other consumption,
whether by inhalation aerosol or vapor, ingestion, or any other method of
consumption of tobacco or tobacco products.
   VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric, electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens, or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco related device.
§ 113.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; PROHIBITED LICENSEES.
   No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco products, or
tobacco related device without first having obtained a license to do so from
the City. No license shall be issued to a movable place of business. Only fixed
location businesses shall be eligible to be licensed under this chapter.
§ 113.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco
related devices shall be made on a form provided by the City. The application
shall contain the full name of the applicant, the applicant's residential and
business addresses and telephone numbers, the name of the business for which
the license is being sought, and any additional information the city deems
necessary. If the clerk shall determine the application is incomplete, he or
she shall return the application to the applicant with notice of the
information necessary to make the application complete.
§ 113.05 ACTION ON APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)    The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it may
delay action for such reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
additional investigation of the application or the applicant(s) it deems
necessary. The City shall conduct a preliminary background investigation of the
applicant(s) or it may contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the
investigation. The applicant(s) shall pay with the application an investigation
fee, which shall be in addition to any license fee.
   (B)    The application and investigation results shall then be forwarded to
the City Council for action at a regularly scheduled council meeting. If the
City Council shall approve the license, the City Clerk shall issue the license.
If the City Council denies the license, notice of the denial shall be given to
the applicant(s).
   (C)    The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of
a license under this chapter; however, except as may otherwise be provided by
law, the existence of any particular grounds for denial does not mean that the
City must deny the license. If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a
person, it shall be revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible
for the license under this subsection.
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 21 years.
      (2)    The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of a
violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products, or tobacco related devices.
      (3)    The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products,
or tobacco related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date
of application.
      (4)    The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information.
      (5)    The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding such a license.
§ 113.06 LICENSE FEE.
   No license shall be issued under this Chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be in
such amount as provided by
Chapter 34 of this Code.
§ 113.07 TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWALS
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms.
§ 113.08 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   (A)    Transfer Of License. Licenses issued under this chapter shall be
valid only on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the
person to whom the license was issued.
   (B)    Display Of License. All licenses shall be posted and displayed on the
licensed premises in plain view of the general public.
   (C)    Prohibited Sales:
      (1)    Prohibitions Generally. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any person to offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related
device, or electronic delivery device:
         (a)   To any person under the age of 21 years.
         (b)   By means of any type of vending machine.
         (c)    By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not
need to make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed
premises in order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related
device and whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco related device between the licensee or the licensee's
employee, and the customer.
         (d)    By means of "loosies" as defined in section
113.02 of this chapter.
         (e)    Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna,
strychnos, cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or
controlled substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in
tobacco or added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process.
         (f)    By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner
or form prohibited by Federal, State, or other local law, ordinance provision,
or other regulation.
      (2)    Vending Machines. It shall be unlawful for any person licensed
under this Chapter to allow the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-
related devices by the means of a vending machine unless persons under 18 are
at all times prohibited from entering the licensed establishment.
      (3)    Self-Service Sales:
         (a)    It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this Chapter to allow
the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-related devices by any means
whereby the customer may have access to such items without having to request
the item from the licensee or the licensee's employee and whereby there is not
a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco-related device, or
electronic delivery device between the licensee or his or her clerk and the
customer.
         (b)    All tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, and
electronic delivery devices shall either be stored behind a counter or other
area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage unit not
left open and accessible to the general public.
         (c)    Any retailer selling tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-
related devices, or electronic delivery devices at the time this Chapter is
adopted shall comply with this subsection (C)(3) within thirty (30) days.
         (d)    The self-service restriction described in this subsection (C)
(3) shall not apply to retail establishments which cannot be entered at any
time by persons under 18 nor shall these restrictions apply to the sale of
expensive cigars displayed in a humidor by establishments which cannot be
entered at any time by persons under 18.
   (D)   Responsibility Of Licensees For Employees. All licensees under this
Chapter shall be responsible for the actions of their employees in regard to
the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, or electronic
delivery devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of such an item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed as prohibiting the City from also subjecting the
clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this Chapter, State or
Federal law, or other applicable law or regulation.
   (E)    Age Of Clerks. It shall be illegal for a retail establishment to
cause or permit a person under 18 to sell tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-
related devices, or electronic delivery devices unless there is an employee 18
years or older on duty and present within the establishment.
§ 113.09 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the County Sheriff’s
Office or other authorized City official during regular business hours. From
time to time, but at least once per year, pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 461.12
subd. 5, the City or an authorized agent for the City shall conduct compliance
checks engaging someone at least 17 years old but less than 21 years old to
enter the licensed premises to attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco-related devices, or electronic delivery devices. Persons under 18 years
of age shall be utilized only with the written consent of a parent or guardian.
Persons used for the purpose of compliance checks shall be supervised by City
designated law enforcement officers. Persons used for compliance checks shall
not be guilty of violating tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco-related device
provisions when such items are obtained as part of the compliance check. No
person used in compliance checks shall attempt to use false identification
misrepresenting the person’s age, and all persons lawfully engaging in a
compliance check shall answer all questions about the person’s age asked by the
licensee or his or her employee and shall produce any identification, if any
exists, for which he or she is asked. Nothing in this section shall prohibit
compliance checks authorized by State or Federal laws for educational,
research, or training purposes, or required for the enforcement of a particular
State or Federal law. However, all such compliance checks must be coordinated
through the City.
§ 113.10 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be violations of this
chapter:
   (A)   Illegal Sales: For any person to sell, give, or otherwise provide any
tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related device to any person under 21.
   (B)   Illegal Possession: For any person under 21 to have in his or her
possession any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related device. This
subsection shall not apply to persons lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (C)   Illegal Use: For any person under 21 to smoke, chew, sniff, or
otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device.
   (D)   Illegal Procurement:
      (1)   For any person under 21 to purchase or attempt to purchase or
otherwise obtain any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related device.
      (2)   For any person to purchase or otherwise obtain such items on behalf
of a person under 21.
      (3)   For any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a person under 21 to
illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco related device.
      (4)   This subsection (D) shall not apply to persons lawfully involved in
a compliance check.
   (E)   Use of False Identification: For any person under 21 to attempt to
disguise his or her true age by the use of a false form of identification,
whether the identification is that of another person or one on which the age
has been modified or tampered with to represent an age older than the actual
age of the person.
§ 113.11 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
   Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked or suspended as
provided in Section
113.12 of this chapter, the violations and penalties section.
§ 113.12 LICENSE PENALTIES
   (A)    Minn. Stat. § 461.12, subd. 2, authorizes a City Council to impose
penalties upon the holder of a tobacco license if any license holder or
employee sells, gives, or otherwise furnishes tobacco, tobacco-related devices,
electronic delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery products to a
person under the age of 21 years, or violates any other provision of any
applicable statute or ordinance.
   (B)    Hearing: Before penalties can be imposed, the City Council or
designee must hold a hearing. At least seven days’ written notice of the time
and place of the hearing must be provided to the licensee and must state the
grounds for the action proposed to be taken. Such notice shall be served
personally or by mail. Any actions taken following the hearing will be adopted
by resolution with findings.
   (C)    Penalties: Upon a finding that the license holder has committed a
violation, the City Council shall impose administrative penalties pursuant to
the fees as established in
Chapter 34 of this Code.
   (D)    The decision by the City Council or its designee following a hearing
is final.
§ 113.13 OTHER PENALTIES
   (A)    Individuals Who Sell: An individual who sells, gives, or otherwise
furnishes tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices, or
nicotine or lobelia delivery products to a person under the age of 21 years may
be charged a minimum penalty pursuant to the fees as established in
Chapter 34 of this Code. The individual shall be entitled to a hearing as
provided in section
113.12(B).
   (B)    Persons Under 21: Persons under 21 found in unlawful possession of,
or who unlawfully purchase or attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia
delivery products shall be found in violation of this chapter and subject to
appropriate penalties established by Council ordinance resolution from time to
time, which may include ordinance violations, juvenile petty citations, and/or
tobacco related education classes, diversion programs, or community service.
   (C)    Misdemeanor: Nothing in this section shall prohibit the City from
seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of this chapter.
§ 113.14 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES
   (A)    Exceptions: Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or electronic delivery
devices to a person under 21 as part of a lawfully recognized religious,
spiritual, or cultural ceremony.
   (B)    Affirmative Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense to the
violation of this chapter for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of
age as described by state law.
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 114.01 PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   The City has the authority under its police power to prevent public
nuisances and public safety hazards created by certain business practices. It
is the purpose and intent of this section to establish regulations relating to
peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants as specifically authorized by
Minn. Stat. §§ 329.15, 412.221 Subd. 19 and 437.02.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
ordinance, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NON-COMMERCIAL DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCATE. A person who goes door-to- door for
the primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social, or other
ideological beliefs. For purpose of this ordinance, the term door-to-door
advocate shall fall under the term solicitor and include door-to-door
canvassing and pamphleteering intended for non-commercial purposes.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying for exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise, or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. For purpose of this ordinance, the term peddler
shall have the same common meaning as the term hawker.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership, or similar association.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the City hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be considered regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property, or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. For purposes of this
ordinance, the term solicitor shall have the same meaning as the term
canvasser.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal
property and who does not remain in any one location for more than 14
consecutive days.
§ 114.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the terms Peddler, Solicitor and Transient
Merchant shall not apply to:
   (A)    Non-commercial door-to-door advocates. Nothing within this ordinance
shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict non-commercial door-to-door
advocates. Persons engaging in non-commercial door-to-door advocacy shall not
be required to register as a solicitor under §
114.07.
   (B)   Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods,
wares, products, merchandise, or other personal property to a retail seller of
the items being sold by the wholesaler.
   (C)   Any person who makes initial contacts with other people for the
purpose of establishing or trying to establish a regular customer delivery
route for the delivery of perishable food and dairy products, such as baked
goods or milk.
   (D)   Any person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to
the customers on his or her established delivery route.
   (E)   Any person making deliveries of newspapers, newsletters, or other
similar publications on an established customer delivery route, when attempting
to establish a regular delivery route, or when publications are delivered to
the community at large.
   (F)   Any person conducting the type of sale commonly known as garage sales,
rummage sales, or estate sales.
   (G)   Any person participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea
market.
   (H)   Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer.
   (I)   Any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale.
   Exemption from these definitions shall not, for the scope of this chapter,
excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory provision
or requirement provided by another City ordinance.
§ 114.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County License Required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant within the City limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as may be required by
Minnesota Statutes Chapter 329, if the county issues a license for the
activity.
   (B)   City License Required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
ordinance, no person shall conduct business within this jurisdiction as a
peddler or a transient merchant without first obtaining a City license.
Solicitors need not be licensed, but are required to register with the City
pursuant to §
114.07.
   (C)   Application. An application for a City license to conduct business as
a peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting a business operation within
the City. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the
City Council and available from the office of the City Clerk. All applications
shall be signed by the applicant. All applications shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The applicant’s full legal name.
      (2)   Any and all other names under which the applicant has or does
conduct business, or to which the applicant will officially answer to.
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, any distinguishing marks or features, and the like) together
with a recent photo of the applicant not less than 2” x 2” in size.
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence.
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence.
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed,
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or an
agent.
      (7)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business, if any
exists.
      (8)   Any and all business-related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and fax machines.
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license.
      (10)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business.
      (11)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the City, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up his or her business.
      (12)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor for
violating any State or Federal statute or any local ordinance, other than minor
traffic offenses.
      (13)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant.
      (14)   Proof of any required county license.
      (15)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any location to be used by a transient merchant.
      (16)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      (17)   Any and all additional information as may be deemed necessary by
the City Council.
      (18)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification.
      (19)   The license plate number, registration information, vehicle
identification number (VIN) and physical description for any vehicle to be used
in conjunction with the licensed business operation.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee as established in
Chapter 34 of this Code.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the application and payment of the license
fee, the City Clerk will, within two regular business days, determine if the
application is complete. An application will be considered complete if all
required information is provided. If the City Clerk determines that the
application is incomplete, the City Clerk must inform the applicant of the
required, necessary information that is missing. If the application is
complete, the City Clerk must order any investigation, including background
checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the application.
Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete application the City
Clerk must issue the license unless grounds exist for denying the license
application under §
114.04, in which case the Clerk must deny the request for a City peddler or
transient merchant license. If the City Clerk denies the license application,
the applicant must be notified in writing of the decision, the reason for
denial and the applicant’s right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20
days of receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City
Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days of the date of
the request for a hearing. The decision of the City Council following the
public hearing can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals
for a writ of certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. All licenses granted to peddlers and transient merchants
under this ordinance shall be valid only during the time period indicated on
the license.
   (G)   License Exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required for any person going from house-to-
house, door- to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or any other type
of place-to-place movement for the primary purpose of exercising that person’s
State or Federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, freedom
of the press, freedom of religion, and the like. This exemption will not apply
if the person’s exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to what
would properly be considered a commercial activity.
§ 114.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a peddler or transient merchant
license:
   (A)   The failure of an applicant to obtain and demonstrate proof of having
obtained any required county license.
   (B)   The failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
requested by the City as part of the application process.
   (C)   The failure of an applicant to sign the license application.
   (D)   The failure of an applicant to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   (E)   A conviction with the past five years of the date of application for
any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation, or of any local
ordinance, which adversely reflects upon the person’s ability to conduct the
business for which the license is being sought in a professional, honest and
legal manner. Such violations shall include, but are not limited to, burglary,
theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and any form of
actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
   (F)   The revocation with the past five years of any license issued to an
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or
transient merchant.
   (G)   When an Applicant has a Bad Business Reputation. Evidence of a bad
business reputation shall include, but is not limited to, the existence of more
than three complaints against an applicant with the Better Business Bureau, the
Office of the Minnesota Attorney General or other State Attorney General’s
office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or agency, with the
preceding 12 months, or three complaints filed with the City against an
applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 114.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the City of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by the applicant on the application form.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
      (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense for which granting of a
license could have been denied under §
114.04.
      (4)   Engaging in any prohibited activity as provided under §
114.08 of this ordinance.
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple Persons Under One License. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the City shall provide a license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, of if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public Hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in part (C) of this
section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If no
request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten days following
the service of the notice, the City may proceed with the suspension or
revocation. For the purpose of a mailed notice, service shall be considered
complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a public hearing
is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be scheduled within
20 days from the date of the request for the public hearing. Within three
regular business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the
licensee of its decision.
   (E)    Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm
to the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this ordinance, the City Council
may immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in part (C) of this section.
   (F)    Appeal. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
§ 114.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
§ 114.07 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All solicitors and any person exempt from the licensing requirements
of this ordinance shall be required to register with the City prior to engaging
in those activities. Registration shall be made on the same form required for a
license application, but no fee shall be required. Immediately upon completion
of the registration form, the City Clerk shall issue to the registrant a
certificate of registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of
registration shall be non-transferrable.
   (B)   Individuals that will be engaging in non-commercial door-to-door
advocacy shall not be required to register.
§ 114.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door
advocate, or other person engaged in other similar activities shall conduct
business in any of the following manner:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or the items to be sold by
means of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any
other noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian,
on any street, sidewalk, alleyway, or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any specific individual or the general public.
   (D)   Conducting business before 8 a.m. or after 9 p.m.
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license, or registration, and
identification when requested.
   (F)   Using the license or registration of another person.
   (G)   Alleging false or misleading statements about the products or services
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the City solely
based on the City having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
   (H)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave.
   (I)   Otherwise operating their business in any manner that a reasonable
person would find obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
§ 114.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   (A)   Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no
peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate,
or other person engaged in other similar activities shall enter onto the
property of another for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler,
solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate, or similar
activity when the property is marked with a sign or placard:
      (1)   At least four inches long.
      (2)   At least four inches wide.
      (3)   With print of at least 48 point in size.
      (4)   Stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors, or transient Merchants,”
“peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable
statement.
   (B)   No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove,
deface, or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section.
CHAPTER 115: REGULATING LAWFUL GAMBLING
§ 115.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of Minn. Stat. § 349, with reference to the definition of
terms, conditions of operation, provisions relating to sales, and all other
matters pertaining to lawful gambling, are hereby adopted by reference and are
made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of the
Council that all future amendments of Minn. Stat. § 349 are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
chapter was adopted.
§ 115.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of Minn. Stat. § 349.213 to
impose, and has imposed in this chapter, additional restrictions on gambling
within its limits beyond those contained in Minn. Stat. § 349.
§ 115.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the City,
to prevent its commercialization, to ensure the integrity of operations, and to
provide for the use of net profits only for lawful purposes.
§ 115.04 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in Minn. Stat. § 349.12, the
following terms are defined for purposes of this chapter:
   BOARD. The State of Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   LICENSED ORGANIZATION An organization licensed by the Board.
   LOCAL PERMIT. A permit issued by the City.
   TRADE AREA.This City and each City and township contiguous to this City.
§ 115.05 LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED.
   Lawful gambling is permitted within the City if the Council, by resolution
adopted by a majority of its members authorizes lawful gambling to occur,
provided it is conducted in accordance with Minn. Stat. §§ 609.75 to 609.763,
inclusive; Minn. Stat. §§ 349.11 to 349.23, inclusive, and this chapter.
§ 115.06 COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   Lawful gambling authorized by Minn. Stat. §§ 349.11 to 349.23, inclusive,
shall not be conducted unless approved by the Council, subject to the
provisions of this chapter and State law.
§ 115.07 APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit or renewal of a
premises permit from the Board shall file with the City Clerk an executed,
complete duplicate application together with all exhibits and documents
accompanying the application as filed with the Board. The application and
accompanying exhibits and documents shall be filed not later than three days
after they have been filed with the Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a premises
permit, the City Clerk shall transmit the application to the Chief of Police,
or the Sheriff of the county in which this City is located, for review and
recommendation.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or Sheriff shall investigate the matter and make a
review and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the City.
   (D)   Organizations or bingo halls applying for a state-issued premises
permit shall pay the City a $100 investigation fee. This fee shall be refunded
if the application is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced. If
approved by the City Council and the Board, a licensed organization will be
responsible for an annual investigative fee for conducting lawful gambling
within the City.
   (E)    The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (F)    The Council shall receive the Police Chief's or Sheriff's report and
consider the application within 45 days of the date the application was
submitted to the City Clerk.
   (G)   The Council shall, by resolution, approve or deny the application
within 60 days of receipt of the application.
   (H)   The Council shall deny an application for issuance or renewal of a
premises permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any State statute, State
rule or City ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years.
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any State statute, State rule or City ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances,
suppression of vice, and protection of public safety within the last three
years.
      (3)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at premises other than those for
which an on-sale liquor license has been issued.
      (4)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at more than one premises within
the City. The City may limit the number of premises where lawful gambling may
be conducted.
      (5)   An organization would be permitted to conduct lawful gambling
activities at more than one premises in the City.
      (6)   More than one licensed organization would be permitted to conduct
lawful gambling activities at one premises.
      (7)   Failure of the applicant to pay any investigation fee provided by
division (D) of this section within the prescribed time limit.
      (8)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
§ 115.08 LOCAL PERMITS.
   (A)   No organization shall conduct lawful gambling excluded or exempted
from State licensure requirements by Minn. Stat. § 349.166 without a valid
local permit.
   (B)   Applications for issuance or renewal of a local permit shall be on a
form prescribed by the City. The application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the organization requesting the permit.
      (2)   Name and address of the officers and person accounting for
receipts, expenses, and profits for the event.
      (3)   Dates of gambling occasion for which permit is requested.
      (4)   Address of premises where event will occur.
      (5)   Copy of rental or leasing arrangement, if any, connected with the
event, including rental to be charged to organization.
      (6)   Estimated value of prizes to be awarded.
   (C)   No permit/license shall be obtained without first paying the fee or
fees as established by Chapter 34 of this Code. The fee shall be submitted with
the application for a local permit. This fee shall be refunded if the
application is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a local
permit, the City Clerk shall transmit the notification to the Chief of Police
or Sheriff for review and recommendation.
   (E)    The Chief of Police or Sheriff shall investigate the matter and make
review and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the City.
   (F)    The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (G)   The Council shall receive the Police Chief's or Sheriff's report and
consider the application within 45 days of the date the application was
submitted to the City Clerk.
   (H)   The Council shall deny an application for issuance or renewal of a
premises permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any State statute, State
rule or City ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years.
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any State statute, State rule or City ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to the operation of the establishment, laws relating to alcoholic
beverages, gambling, controlled substances, suppression of vice, and protection
of public safety within the last three years.
      (3)   The organization has not been in existence in the City for at least
three consecutive years prior to the date of application.
      (4)   The organization does not have at least 15 active members at the
time of its initial license application and thereafter at least 13 members
eligible to vote on gambling matters.
      (5)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not take place at a
premises the organization owns or rents.
      (6)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not be limited to a
premises for which an on- sale liquor license has been issued.
      (7)   An organization will have a permit to conduct exempted or excluded
lawful gambling activities on more than one premises in the City.
      (8)   More than one licensed, qualified organization will be conducting
exempted or excluded lawful gambling activities at any one premises.
      (9)   Failure of the applicant to pay permit fee provided by division (C)
of this section within the prescribed time limit.
      (10)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
   (I)    Local permits shall be valid for one year after the date of issuance
unless suspended or revoked.
§ 115.09 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LOCAL PERMIT.
   (A)   A local permit may be revoked or temporarily suspended for a violation
by the gambling organization of any State statute, State rule or City ordinance
relating to gambling.
   (B)   A license shall not be revoked or suspended until written notice and
an opportunity for a hearing have first been given to the permitted person. The
notice shall be personally served or sent by registered mail. If the person
refuses to accept notice, notice of the violation shall be served by posting it
on the premises. Notice shall state the provision reasonably believed to be
violated and shall state that the permitted person may demand a hearing on the
matter, in which case the permit will not be suspended until after the hearing
is held. If the permitted person requests a hearing, the Council shall hold a
hearing on the matter no more than seven business days after the date on which
the request is made. If, as a result of the hearing, the Council finds that an
ordinance violation exists, then the Council may suspend or revoke the permit.
§ 115.10 LICENSE AND PERMIT DISPLAY.
   All permits issued under state law or this chapter shall be prominently
displayed during the permit year at the premises where gambling is conducted.
§ 115.11 NOTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CHANGES TO APPLICATION.
   An organization holding a state-issued premises permit or a local permit
shall notify the City in writing whenever any material change in the
information submitted in the application occurs within ten days of the change.
§ 115.12 CONTRIBUTION OF NET PROFITS TO FUND ADMINISTERED BY CITY.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling within the City
pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 349.16, shall contribute 10% of its net profits
derived from lawful gambling in the City to a fund administered and regulated
by the City without cost to the fund. The City shall disburse the funds for
lawful purposes as defined by Minn. Stat. § 349.12, Subd. 25.
   (B)   Payment under this section shall be made on the last day of each
month.
   (C)   The City's use of these funds shall be determined at the time of
adoption of the City's annual budget or when the budget is amended.
§ 115.13 DESIGNATED TRADE AREA.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct gambling within the City shall
expend 10% of its lawful purpose expenditures on lawful purposes conducted
within the City's trade area.
   (B)   This section applies only to lawful purpose expenditures of gross
profits derived from gambling conducted at a premises within the City's
jurisdiction.
§ 115.14 RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Organizations conducting lawful gambling shall file with the City
Clerk one copy of all records and reports required to be filed with the Board,
pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 349 and rules adopted pursuant thereto, as they may
be amended. The records and reports shall be filed on or before the day they
are required to be filed with the Board.
   (B)   Organizations licensed by the Board shall file a report with the City
proving compliance with the trade area spending requirements imposed by §
116.13. Such report shall be made on a form prescribed by the City and shall be
submitted annually and in advance of application for renewal.
§ 115.15 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Lawful gambling shall not be conducted between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
any day of the week.
CHAPTER 116: REGULATION OF SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 116.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of this City by regulating the time, place and manner of conduct
of special events and by establishing permit requirements for conducting
special events as such are herein defined. The City Council finds that special
events often exceed the City's capacity to provide usual City services. These
City services include, but are not limited to sanitary, fire, police and
utility services. The City Council also finds these regulations necessary to
ensure that such events are conducted with sufficient consideration given to
public safety issues, including, among other things, the impact of these events
on parking and vehicular traffic within the City.
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. A natural person, association, organization, club, group formed for
a common purpose, partnership of any kind, limited liability company,
corporation or any other legal entity.
   SPECIAL EVENTS. An outdoor gathering of at least 25 individuals, whether on
public or private property, assembled with a common purpose for a period of one
hour or longer. Special events include, but are not limited to concerts,
entertainment, fairs, carnivals, circuses, parades, flea markets, marathons,
walkathons, festivals, races, bicycle events, celebrations or any other
gathering or events of similar nature. Special events do not include
noncommercial events held on private property, such as graduation parties or
social parties.
§ 116.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall hold, conduct or participate in a special event within the
City, unless a permit has been issued for such event upon timely written
application made to the City.
§ 116.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Written application for special event permits must be made at least 30 days
in advance of the event's proposed date in a form prescribed by the City
Council. This application period shall not begin to run until a complete
application has been filed with the City. A fee, in the amount specified in
Chapter 34, shall be paid to the City along with the completed application
form. In addition to the fee, the applicant shall pay all additional costs
incurred by the City as a direct result of the special event. Failure to
provide a complete application or to pay the fee, as herein required, is
sufficient reason to deny the special event permit.
§ 116.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT, CONDITIONS, AND POSTING.
   (A)   Special event permits will be issued upon City Council approval. The
Council may attach reasonable conditions to the permit as are deemed necessary
to protect the health, safety and welfare. Such conditions may pertain to any
of the following:
      (1)   Location and hours during which the event may be held;
      (2)   Sanitation/availability of potable water;
      (3)   Security/crowd management;
      (4)   Parking and traffic issues;
      (5)   Emergency and medical services;
      (6)   Clean-up of premises and surrounding area/trash disposal;
      (7)   Insurance in the amount of $2,000,000 per event. All required
policies shall name the City as an additional insured. Applicants shall agree
to defend and indemnify the City from any and all claims;
      (8)   Lighting;
      (9)   Fire service/safety;
      (10)   Temporary construction, barricades/fencing;
      (11)   Removal of advertising/promotional materials;
      (12)   Noise levels;
      (13)   Alcohol consumption;
      (14)   Any other conditions which the Council deems necessary.
   (B)    Upon Council approval, the City Clerk shall issue a permit to the
person(s) named in the permit application. The permit shall clearly state the
conditions, if any, imposed by the Council. Copies of the permit shall be
posted in three prominent locations during the special event.
§ 116.06 EXCEPTIONS TO THE PERMIT.
   The permit requirement contained in this chapter does not apply to the
following:
   (A)    Special events sponsored and managed by the City;
   (B)    Funerals and funeral processions;
   (C)    The grounds of any school, playground, place of worship, hotel
conference center, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium or similar
permanent place of assembly when used for regularly established assembly
purposes.
§ 116.07 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   At the time application for a permit is made, where use of municipal grounds
is contemplated, the applicant shall deposit with the City Clerk or other
designated municipal official a cash bond in an amount to be determined by the
City Council, conditioned upon the restoration and cleaning up of the grounds
in a manner satisfactory to the City. In the event the grounds are restored and
cleaned up properly following the event, the deposit shall be returned;
otherwise the same shall be forfeited to the City to the extent of actual costs
to the City for restoration and cleaning up of the grounds.
TITLE XIII: RIGHTS OF WAY AND BUILDING CODES
   Chapter
      
130.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
131.   RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
      
132.   BUILDING CODE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
130.01   Unloading on Street or Sidewalk
   
130.02   Street and Sidewalk Obstruction
   
130.03   Materials on Street or Sidewalk
CHAPTER 131: RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
   
131.01   Election to Manage the Public Right-Of-Way
   
131.02   Definitions and Adoption of Rules by Reference
   
131.03   Permit Requirement
   
131.04   Permit Applications
   
131.05   Issuance of Permit; Conditions
   
131.06   Permit Fees
   
131.07   Right-Of-Way Patching and Restoration
   
131.08   Permit Limitations
   
131.09   Timeline for Action on Permit Applications
   
131.10   Installation Requirements
   
131.11   Inspection
   
131.12   Work Done Without a Permit
   
131.13   Supplementary Notification
   
131.14   Revocation of Permits
   
131.15   Mapping Data; Information Required
   
131.16   Location of Facilities
   
131.17   Damage to Other Facilities
   
131.18   Right-Of-Way Vacation
   
131.19   Indemnification and Liability
   
131.20   Abandoned Facilities; Removal of Abandoned Facilities
   
131.21   Appeal
   
131.22   Reservation of Regulatory and Police Powers
CHAPTER 132: BUILDING CODE REGULATIONS
   
132.01   Building Code
   
132.02   Building Permits
   
132.03   Electrical Code
   
132.04   Plumbing Code
   
132.05   Fire Prevention Code
CHAPTER 130: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 130.01 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the City by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
§ 130.02 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the City by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
§ 130.03 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street, sidewalk, or right-of-way. No
owner, occupant, or person having the care of any building or lot of land,
bordering on any street, sidewalk, or right-of-way shall permit it to be
encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans, articles, or substances of any kind, so
as to interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
   (B)   Except for the actions of the City employees and contractors with
required permits, no person shall:
      (1)   Obstruct any street or sidewalk by depositing snow or ice thereon;
      (2)   Dig any holes in any street, sidewalk or right-of-way;
      (3)   Remove any earth, gravel, or rock from any street, sidewalk or
right-of-way;
      (4)   Obstruct a ditch draining a street or drain any noisome materials
into any ditch;
      (5)   Deface, mar, damage, or tamper with any structure, work, material,
equipment, tools, signs, markers, signals, paving, guardrails, drains or any
other highway appurtenance on or along any street, sidewalk or right-of-way.
      (6)   Remove, injure, displace, or destroy right-of-way markers, or
reference or witness monuments or markers placed to preserve section or
quarter-section corners;
      (7)   Drive over, through, or around any barricade, fence, or obstruction
erected for the purpose of preventing traffic from passing over a portion of a
street or sidewalk closed to public travel or to remove, deface, or damage any
such barricade, fence or obstruction.
CHAPTER 131: RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 131.01 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to the City under State and Federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the City hereby elects pursuant to
this chapter, to manage rights-of- ways within its jurisdiction.
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS AND ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   Minn. Rules Ch. 7819 is hereby adopted by reference and is incorporated into
this Code as if set out in full. The definitions included in Minn. Stat. §
237.162, Minn. Rules part 7819.0100, and Minn. Rules part 7560.0100 are hereby
adopted by reference and are incorporated into this chapter as if set out in
full.
§ 131.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit Required. Except as otherwise provided in this Code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate permit from the City.
      (1)   Excavation Permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right- of- way described in the permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right- of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction Permit. An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
      (3)   Small Wireless Facility Permit. A small wireless facility permit is
required to place a new wireless support structure (collocate) in the right-of-
way, with the exception that a permit is not required for the installation,
placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement of micro wireless facilities
suspended on cables strung between existing utility poles in compliance with
national safety codes.
      (4)   Small Wireless Special or Conditional Land Use Permit. A special or
conditional land use permit is required to install a new wireless support
structure in a right-of-way where the underlying district or area is zoned for
single-family residential use or is in a historic district established by
federal or State law or City ordinance.
   (B)   Permit Extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless the person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of- way permit before the
expiration of the initial permit, and a new permit or permit extension is
granted.
   (C)   Delay Penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.1000 subp. 3,
as it may be amended, and notwithstanding division (B) of this section, the
City shall establish and impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay
penalty shall be established by
Chapter 34 of this Code.
   (D)   Permit Display. Permits issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the City.
   (E)    Street Reconstruction Projects. Utility companies are required to
meet with the City’s representatives prior to any street reconstruction project
in order to coordinate utility work it may need in the right of way. If any
utility company fails to attend the pre-construction meetings of which they had
notice, that utility company shall be precluded from applying for any
excavation permits for a period of five years from the date of completion of
the street reconstruction project for that street, except in cases of emergency
or with approval by the City Council.
§ 131.04 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit shall contain, and will be considered complete only
upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
      (1)   Each permittee’s name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      (3)   A Certificate of Insurance or Self-Insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the City;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees, and placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of- way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees, and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities, and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the City as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the City be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the City in amounts sufficient to protect the City and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   The City may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the Certificate of
Incorporation issued by the Secretary of State pursuant to Minn. Stat. §
302A.155.
      (6)   A copy of the person's order granting a Certificate of Authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable State or
Federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have the certificate
from the Commission or other State or Federal agency.
   (B)   A Small Wireless Facility Permit applicant may file a consolidated
Small Wireless Permit Application to collocate up to 15 small wireless
facilities provided that all the small wireless facilities in the application:
      (1)   Are located within a two mile radius;
      (2)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
      (3)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support structures.
   (C)   Payment of Money Due the City for:
      (1)   Permit fees as established by
Chapter 34 this Code, estimated restoration costs and other management costs
including inspections;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the City
because of the applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-
way or any emergency actions taken by the City; or
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges as established by
Chapter 34 of this Code, if applicable.
§ 131.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit Issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the City shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The City may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, State and Federal laws, including but not limited to
Minn. Stat. §§ 216D.01 – 216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and
Minn. Rules Ch. 7560.
   (C)   Additional Small Wireless Facility Conditions. In addition to
subdivision (B), the erection or installation of a wireless support structure,
or the collocation of a small wireless facility, shall be subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the
particular wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable permit application.
      (2)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-way
shall exceed 50 feet in height without the City’s written authorization, and
further provided that an applicant may replace an existing wireless support
structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a structure of the same height
subject to such conditions or requirements as may be imposed in the applicable
permit.
      (3)   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet above its
wireless support structure.
      (4)   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of- way, the City may impose separation requirements
between such support structures and any existing wireless support structure or
other facilities in and around the right-of-way.
      (5)   Where an applicant proposes collocation on a decorative wireless
support structure, sign or other structure not intended to support small
wireless facilities, the City may impose reasonable requirements to accommodate
the particular design, appearance or intended purpose of such structure.
      (6)   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the City may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of such structure.
      (7)   The execution of a Small Wireless Facility Collocation Agreement
that incorporates any additional terms and conditions mutually agreed upon by
the City and the applicant. A small wireless facility collocation agreement is
considered public data not on individuals and is accessible to the public under
Minn. Stat. § 13.03. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit does not
supersede, alter or affect any then-existing agreement between the City and
applicant.
   (D)   Payment of Rent.
      (1)   For collocations of small wireless facilities, the City can, either
in its permit or in a standard collocation agreement, require annual rental
payments for the small wireless collocations of up to:
         (a)   $150 per year for rent to collocate on the City structure.
         (b)   $25 per year for maintenance associated with the collocation.
         (c)   A monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
            (i)   $73 per radio node less than or equal to one hundred (100)
maximum watts;
            (ii)   $182 per radio node over one hundred (100) maximum watts; or
            (iii)   The actual cost of electricity if the actual cost exceeds
the foregoing.
      (2)   For collocations or placements, other than of small wireless
facilities, the City can charge a mutually agreed upon rent reached between the
City and the applicant.
   (E)   Trenchless Excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to Horizontal Directional Drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
Minn. Stat. § 216D and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560, and shall require potholing or
open cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating, as
determined by the City.
§ 131.06 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees shall be set in
Chapter 34 of this Code.
   (A)   Excavation Permit Fee. The City shall establish an excavation permit
fee as established by
Chapter 34 of this Code, in an amount sufficient to recover the following
costs:
      (1)   The City management costs;
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable; and
      (3)   Escrow for patching and restoration costs.
   (B)   Obstruction Permit Fee. The City shall establish the obstruction
permit fee as established by
Chapter 34 of this Code, and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the
City management costs.
   (C)   Small Wireless Facility Permit Fee.
      (1)   The City shall impose a one-time small wireless facility permit fee
at the time of approval of the collocation application in an amount sufficient
to recover:
         (a)   Management costs;
         (b)   Restoration costs or degradation fee or escrow, if applicable,
         (c)   Inspection fees, if applicable,
         (d)   City engineering, make-ready, and construction costs associated
with collocation of small wireless facilities.
      (2)   The City will not impose a small wireless facility permit fee for
any of the following activities:
         (a)   Routine maintenance of a small wireless facility;
         (b)   Replacement of a small wireless facility with a new facility
that is substantially similar or smaller in size, weight, height, and wind or
structural loading than the small wireless facility being replaced; or
         (c)   Installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement
of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with national safety codes
   (D)   Payment of Permit Fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
City may allow applicant to pay those fees within 30 days of billing.
   (E)    Non-Refundable. Permit fees as established by
Chapter 34 of this Code, that were paid for a permit that the City has revoked
for a breach as stated in §
131.14 are not refundable.
   (F)    Application to Franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (G)   All permit fees shall be established consistent with the provisions of
Minn. Rules part 7819.1000.
§ 131.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under this
subchapter.
   (B)   Patch and Restoration. The permittee shall patch its own work. The
City may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to
restore the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City Restoration. If the City restores the right-of-way, the
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If following
the restoration, the pavement settles due to the permittee's improper
backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the City, within 30 days of billing,
all costs associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee Restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it may be required at the time of application for an excavation permit
to post a construction performance bond or a deposit in accordance with the
provisions of Minn. Rules part 7819.3000, as it may be amended.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the City and
shall comply with Minn. Rules part 7819.1100. The City shall have the authority
to prescribe the manner and extent of the restoration, and may do so in written
procedures of general application or on a case-by-case basis.
   (D)   Duty to Correct Defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by the permittee or its agents. The
permittee, upon notification from the City Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or
other person designated by the Council, shall correct all restoration work to
the extent necessary, using the method required by the City Clerk, Utilities
Superintendent or other person designated by the Council. The work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the City
Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the Council, not
including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonal or
unreasonable under this subchapter.
   (E)    Failure to Restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-
way in the manner and to the condition required by the City, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the City, the
City may do the work. In that event the permittee shall pay to the City, within
30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If the permittee
fails to pay as required, the City may use the escrow to recover its costs.
   (F)    Degradation Fee in lieu of Restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee as
established by
Chapter 34 of this Code. However, the right-of-way user shall remain
responsible for patching and the degradation fee shall not include the cost to
accomplish these responsibilities.
§ 131.08 PERMIT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on Area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area
make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Obstruction from Small Wireless Facility Work. The City will not
require an additional small wireless facility permit fee or require a new
collocation agreement for routine maintenance of a small wireless facility, for
replacement of a small wireless facility with a new facility that is
substantially similar or smaller in size, weight, height, and wind or
structural loading than the small wireless facility being replaced; or for
installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement of micro
wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung between existing
utility poles in compliance with national safety codes. The City may require
advance notification, however, of these activities if the work will obstruct
the public right-of-way.
   (C)   Limitation on Dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
§ 131.09 TIMELINE FOR ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Denial in General. The City may deny a permit for failure to meet the
requirements and conditions of this chapter or if the City determines that the
denial is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use.
   (B)   Procedure for Denial on Permits other than Small Wireless Facilities
Permits. The denial of a permit must be made in writing and must document the
basis for the denial. The City must notify the applicant or right-of-way user
in writing within seven business days of the decision to deny a permit. If an
application is denied, the right-of-way user may address the reasons for denial
identified by the City and resubmit its application. If the application is
resubmitted within 30 days of receipt of the notice of denial, no additional
application fee shall be imposed. The City must approve or deny the resubmitted
application within 30 days after submission.
   (C)   Procedure for Denial on Small Wireless Facilities Permits. The City
shall approve or deny a small wireless facility permit application within 90
days after filing of such application, unless the collocation is on a support
structure that already qualifies as an existing wireless tower or base station
under Section 6409(a), codified at 47 U.S.C. 1455(a), which, in those
instances, the City shall approve or deny the small wireless facility permit
within 60 days. The small wireless facility permit, and any associated building
permit application, shall be deemed approved if the City fails to approve or
deny the application within the review periods established in this section.
   (D)   Tolling of Deadline on Small Wireless Facility Permit. The deadline
for action on a small wireless facility permit application may be tolled if:
      (1)   The City receives applications from one or more applicants seeking
approval of permits for more than 30 small wireless facilities within a seven
day period. In such case, the City may extend the deadline for all such
applications by 30 days and shall inform the affected applicant in writing of
such extension.
      (2)   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or information
and the City provides written notice of incompleteness to the applicant within
30 days of receipt the application. Upon submission of additional documents or
information, the City shall have ten days to notify the applicant in writing of
any still-missing information.
      (3)   The City and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing
to toll the review period.
§ 131.10 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right- of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
part 7819.1100, as it may be amended, and other applicable local requirements,
in so far as they are not inconsistent with Minn. Stat. §§ 237.162 and 237.163.
§ 131.11 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of Completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules part 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site Inspection. The permittee shall make the work-site available to
City personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of City.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the City Clerk, Utilities Superintendent
or other person designated by the Council may order the immediate cessation of
any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety, or well-
being of the public.
      (2)   The City may issue an order to the permittee for any work which
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the City that the
violation has been corrected. If proof has not been presented within the
required time, the City may revoke the permit pursuant to §
131.14.
§ 131.12 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency Situations.
      (1)   Each person with facilities in the right-of-way shall immediately
notify the City of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be
an emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the owner shall apply for the necessary permits,
pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements
necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for the actions it
took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the City becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
City will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the City may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-Emergency Situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by this Code,
deposit with the City the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-
way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
§ 131.13 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the City
of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
§ 131.14 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial Breach. The City reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of- way permit, without a fee refund if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
the permittee shall include, but shall not be limited, to the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the City or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittees control; or,
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
131.11.
   (B)   Written Notice of Breach. If the City determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit the City shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy that violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the City, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to Notice of Breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, the permittee shall provide the City with a plan,
acceptable to the City, that will cure the breach. The permittee's failure to
so contact the City, or the permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan,
or the permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of City costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the City for the City's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
§ 131.15 MAPPING DATA; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Information Required. Each permittee shall provide mapping information
required by the City in accordance with Minn. Rules parts 7819.4000 and
7819.4100.
   (B)   Service Laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules 7560.0150,
Subp. 2, shall require the permittee’s use of appropriate means of establishing
the horizontal locations of installed service laterals, and the service lateral
vertical locations in those cases where the City reasonably requires it.
Permittees or other subcontractors shall submit to the City evidence of the
installed service lateral locations. Compliance with this subdivision (B) and
with applicable Gopher State One Call laws and Minnesota Rules governing
service laterals installed after December 31, 2005, shall be a condition of any
City approval necessary for:
      (1)    Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project
including those under Minn. Stat. § 429;
      (2)    City approval of performance under development agreements, or
other subdivision or site plan approval under Minn. Stat. § 462.
   The City shall reasonably determine the appropriate method of providing such
information. Failure to provide prompt and accurate information on the service
laterals installed may result in the revocation of the permit issued for the
work or for future permits to the offending permittee or its subcontractors.
§ 131.16 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Compliance Required. Placement, location, and relocation of facilities
must comply with applicable laws, and with Minn. Rules parts 7819.3100,
7819.5000 and 7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit authority
otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. The City may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that is or, pursuant to current technology, the City expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the City involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
   (C)   Limitation of Space. To protect the health, safety, and welfare or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the City shall
have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
facilities within the right-of-way. In making those decisions, the City Clerk,
Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the Council shall strive
to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the
right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public
interest, the public's needs for the particular utility service, the condition
of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the
protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and future City plans
for public improvements and development projects which have been determined to
be in the public interest.
§ 131.17 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the City does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move facilities to protect it, the City Clerk, Utilities
Superintendent or other person designated by the Council shall notify the local
representative as early as is reasonably possible and placed as required. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each facility owner shall be
responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of- way which
it or its facilities damages. Each facility owner shall be responsible for the
cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused
during the City's response to an emergency occasioned by that owner’s
facilities. The registrant shall have six months to relocate or move their
facilities from the date of receiving written notification.
§ 131.18 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the City vacates a right-of-way which contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules part 7819.3200.
§ 131.19 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the City in accordance with the provisions of
Minn. Rules part 7819.1250.
§ 131.20 ABANDONED FACILITIES; REMOVAL OF ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way shall remove
them from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with other right-of-way
repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement is waived by the
City Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the Council.
§ 131.21 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that has been denied registration; has been denied a
permit; has had a permit revoked; believes that the fees imposed are invalid;
or disputes a determination of the City regarding §
131.15(B) of this chapter, may have the denial, revocation, or fee imposition
reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act
on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision
by the City Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee as imposition will
be in writing and supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness
of the decision.
§ 131.22 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee’s or registrant’s rights are subject to the regulatory and
police powers of the City to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
CHAPTER 132: BUILDING CODE REGULATIONS
§ 132.01 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Building Code: The Minnesota state building code as adopted by the
commissioner of administration pursuant to Minn. Stat. §§ 326B.101 to 326B194,
including all of the amendments, rules and regulations established, adopted and
published from time to time by the Minnesota commissioner of administration,
through the building codes and standards division is hereby adopted by
reference with the exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically
adopted in this code. The Minnesota state building code is hereby incorporated
in this code as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   Application, Administration, And Enforcement: The application,
administration, and enforcement of the code shall be in accordance with the
Minnesota state building code. The code shall be enforced within the
extraterritorial limits permitted by Minn. Stat. § 326B.121, when so
established by this code. A Minnesota certified Building Official designated by
the City to administer the Minnesota state building code shall enforce said
code.
   (C)   Permits And Fees: The issuance of permits and the collection of fees
shall be as authorized in Minn. Stat.§ 326B.121. Permit fees shall be assessed
for work governed by this code in accordance with
Chapter 34 of this Code. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all
permits issued for work governed by this code in accordance with Minn. Stat. §
326B.148.
   (D)   Scope: The building code shall apply to the construction,
reconstruction, alteration and repair of farm dwellings and buildings.
   (E)   Enforcement of Provisions: Right of Entry.
      (1)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this code, or whenever the Building Official or his/her
authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in
any building or upon any premises any condition which makes such building or
premises unsafe, the Building Official or his/her authorized representative may
enter such building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
to perform any duty imposed upon the Building Official by this code; provided,
that if such building or premises be occupied, he/she shall first present
proper credentials and demand entry; and if such building or premises be
unoccupied, he/she shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or
other persons having charge or control of the building or premises and demand
entry. If such entry is refused, the Building Official or his/her authorized
representative shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure
entry.
      (2)   No owner or occupant or any other person having charge, care or
control of any building or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper demand
is made as herein provided, to properly permit entry therein by the Building
Official or authorized representative for the purpose of inspection and
examination pursuant to the building code. Any person violating this subsection
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   “Authorized representative” shall include the Building Official and
assigns.
   (F)   Stop Work Orders: Whenever any building work is being done contrary to
the provisions of the building code, the Building Official may order the work
stopped by notice, in writing, served on any person engaged in the doing or
causing such work to be done, or posted on the property where work is being
performed, and any such persons shall forthwith stop work until authorized by
the Building Official to proceed with the work.
   (G)   Occupancy Violations: Whenever any structure is being used contrary to
the provisions of the building code, the Building Official may order such use
discontinued and the structure, or portion thereof, vacated by notice served on
any person causing such use to be continued. Such person shall discontinue the
use within ten days after receipt of such notice or make the structure, or
portion thereof, comply with the requirements of the building code.
   (H)   Nonliability Of Building Official; Suits:
      (1)   The Building Official or any employee charged with the enforcement
of the building code, acting in good faith and without malice for the City in
the discharge of his/her duties, shall not thereby render himself/herself
liable personally, and he/she is hereby relieved from all personal liability
for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act
required or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his/her
duties.
      (2)   Any suit brought against the Building Official or employee, because
of such act or omission performed by him/her in the enforcement of any
provisions of the building code, shall be defended by the legal department of
the City until final termination of the proceedings.
   (I)   Cooperation Of Other Officials: The Building Official may request, and
shall receive so far as may be necessary in the discharge of his/her duties,
the assistance and cooperation of other officials of the City.
   (J)   Violation; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or structure
in the City or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of
the provisions of the building code. Any person, firm or corporation violating
any of the provisions of the building code shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense
for each and every day, or portion thereof, during which any violation of any
of the provisions of the building code is committed, continued or permitted.
§ 132.02 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit Required; Authority To Issue: No person, firm, or corporation
shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, convert, or
demolish any building or structure in the City or cause the same to be done
without first obtaining a separate building permit for each such building or
structure from the Building Official. The Building Official shall have the
authority to issue permits for the moving, demolition, erecting, enlargement or
alteration of all buildings or structures.
   (B)   Exceptions: Permits shall not be required for minor remodeling or
alteration work, provided a record of such work has been filed with and
approved by the Building Official, and the construction shall not increase the
physical size, create a room, or alter the structural framework of the existing
building.
   (C)   Application For Permit: To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first
file an application therefor, in writing, on a form furnished for that purpose.
Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for
which application is made.
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done, by lot,
block, tract, and house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work.
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications as required in
subsection D of this Section.
      (5)   State the valuation of the proposed work.
      (6)   Be signed by the permittee, or his/her authorized agent, who may be
required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
      (7)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Building Official.
   (D)   Plans And Specifications:
      (1)   Plans And Specifications Required; Exceptions:
         (a)   For a residential building permit application, two sets of full-
size plans and two sets of 8 1/2” x 11” plans, and a certificate of survey
prepared by a land surveyor showing the building elevations and site drainage
conforming to the grading plans for the project, and if there are no drainage
plans, a proposed drainage/run-off shall be reflected.
         (b)   For commercial and industrial permit applications, four sets of
full-size plans and specifications and a certificate of survey by a registered
land surveyor showing the building elevations and site drainage conforming to
the grading plans for the project, and if there are no drainage plans, a
proposed drainage/run-off shall be reflected.
         (c)   When authorized by the Building Official, plans and
specifications need not be submitted for minor remodeling or alteration work;
provided, that the work which is proposed does not involve work which can
affect the safety of either the occupants or the public.
      (2)   Information On Plans and Specifications: Plans and specifications
shall be drawn to scale upon paper and shall be of sufficient clarity to
indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that it
will conform to the provisions of the building code and all relevant laws,
ordinances, rules, and regulations. The first sheet of each set of plans shall
give the house and street address of the work and the name and address of the
owner and person who prepared them. Plans shall include a plot plan showing the
location of the proposed building and of every existing building on the
property. In lieu of detailed specifications, the Building Official may approve
references on the plans to a specific section or part of the building code or
other ordinances or laws. Computation, stress diagrams, and other data
sufficient to show the correctness of the plans shall be submitted when
required by the Building Official.
      (3)   Retention Of Plans: One set of approved plans, specifications, and
computations shall be retained by the Building Official for a period of not
less than 90 days from date of completion of the work covered therein, and one
set of approved plans and specifications shall be returned to the applicant,
which set shall be kept on such building or work at all times during which the
work authorized thereby is in progress. Plans submitted for checking for which
no permit is issued and on which no action is taken by the applicant for 90
days shall be returned to the last known address of the applicant; to renew
action on said plans, a payment of a new plan-check fee shall be required.
   (E)   Issuance Of Permit:
      (1)   The application, plans, and specifications filed by an applicant
for a permit shall be checked by the Building Official. Such plans may be
reviewed by other departments of the City to check compliance with the laws and
ordinances under their jurisdiction. If the Building Official is satisfied that
the work described in an application for permit and the plans filed therewith
conform to the requirements of the building code and other pertinent laws and
ordinances, and that the fees specified have been paid, he/she shall issue a
permit therefor to the applicant.
      (2)   When the Building Official issues the permit, he/she shall endorse,
in writing, or stamp on both sets of plans and specifications “APPROVED”. Such
approved plans and specifications shall not be changed, modified, or altered
without authorization from the Building Official, and all work shall be done in
accordance with the approved plans.
      (3)   The Building Official may issue a permit for the construction of
part of a building or structure before the entire plans and specifications for
the whole building or structure have been submitted or approved, provided
adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with all
pertinent requirements of the building code. The holder of such permit shall
proceed at his/her own risk without assurance that the permit for the entire
building or structure will be granted.
   (F)   Denial Of Permits; Appeals: In any instance where a building permit or
a request for a preliminary approval is denied, the applicant shall be entitled
to an appeal of the denial. The appeal shall be heard by the City Council
sitting as a board of review at any regular or special meeting. The applicant
may present any additional information he/she deems pertinent, which shall be
considered by the City Council together with the original application and all
papers submitted therewith. The City Council, as board of review, shall issue
its findings and conclusions within 30 days after such review hearing.
   (G)   Validity:
      (1)   The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans and
specifications shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of,
any violation of any of the provisions of the building code. No permit
presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of the building
code shall be valid, except insofar as the work or use which it authorizes is
lawful.
      (2)   The issuance of a permit based on plans and specifications shall
not prevent the Building Official from thereafter requiring the correction of
errors in said plans and specifications or from preventing building operations
being carried on thereunder when in violation of the building code or of any
other ordinance of the City.
   (H)   Expiration Of Permit:
      (1)   Every permit issued by the Building Official under the provisions
of this Section shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the
building or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days
from the date of such permit, or if the building or work authorized by such
permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a
period of 180 days. Before such work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be
first obtained to do so, and the fee therefor shall be one-half the amount
required for a new permit for such work, provided no changes have been made or
will be made in the original plans and specifications for such work, and
provided, further, that such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one
year.
      (2)   The exterior of any building shall be completed within 180 days of
start of construction. No occupancy or use of a structure shall be allowed
until the exterior is completed and all necessary inspections conducted. In the
case of a demonstrated hardship, the Building Official may allow for an
extension of time to complete the exterior. No extension shall exceed 180 days.
In order to renew action on such permit after expiration, the permittee shall
pay a new full permit fee.
   (I)   Suspension Or Revocation of Permit: The Building Official may, in
writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued under this section whenever the
permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied or
in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this
section.
   (J)   Certificate Of Occupancy:
      (1)   Certificate Required: No building or structure shall be used or
occupied, and no change in the existing occupancy classification of a building
or structure or portion thereof shall be made until the Building Official has
issued a certificate of occupancy therefor as provided in the building code.
      (2)   Issuance Of Certificate; Conditions: After final inspection when it
is found that the building or structure complies with the provisions of the
building code and an as built survey has been submitted, the Building Official
shall issue a certificate of occupancy which shall contain the following:
         (a)   The building permit number.
         (b)   The address of the building.
         (c)   The name and address of the owner.
         (d)   A description of that portion of the building for which the
certificate is issued.
         (e)   A statement that the described portion of the building complies
with the requirements of the building code for group of occupancy in which the
proposed occupancy is classified.
         (f)   The name of the Building Official.
      (3)   Temporary Certificate: A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued by the Building Official for the use of a portion or portions of a
building or structure prior to the completion of the entire building or
structure and submittal of an as built survey.
      (4)   Certificate To Be Posted: The certificate of occupancy shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises and shall not be removed except
by the Building Official.
   (K)   Change In Use: Changes in the character or use of a building shall not
be made except as specified in the building code.
   (L)   Inspections: All construction or work for which a permit is required
shall be subject to inspection by the Building Official, and certain types of
construction shall have continuous inspection by special inspectors, as
specified in subsection L (2) of this section.
      (1)   Inspections Generally:
         (a)   Lot Survey: A survey of the lot may be required by the Building
Official to verify compliance of the structure with approved plans.
         (b)   Inspection Record Card: Work requiring a building permit shall
not be commenced until the permit holder or his/her agent shall have posted an
inspection record card in a conspicuous place on the front premises and in such
position as to allow the Building Official conveniently to make the required
entries thereon regarding inspection of the work. This card shall be maintained
in such position by the permit holder until the certificate of occupancy has
been issued.
         (c)   Approvals Required: No work shall be done on any part of the
building or structure beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection
without first obtaining the written approval of the Building Official. Such
written approval shall be given only after an inspection shall have been made
of each successive step in the construction as indicated by each of the
inspections required in subsection (L)(1)(d) of this section. There shall be a
final inspection and approval on all buildings when completed and ready for
occupancy.
         (d)   Required Inspections:
            (i)   Reinforcing steel or structural framework of any part of any
building or structure shall not be covered or concealed without first obtaining
the approval of the Building Official.
            (ii)   The Building Official, upon notification from the permit
holder or his/her agent, shall make the following inspections and shall either
approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall notify the
permit holder or his/her agent wherein the same fails to comply with the
building code:
               A.   Footings Inspection: To be made after trenches are
excavated and forms erected and when all materials for the footings are
delivered on the job. Where concrete from a central mixing plant (commonly
termed “transit mixed”) is to be used, materials need not be on the job.
               B.   Foundation Inspection: To be made after the footings and
foundation walls are completed and dampproofed and before backfill material is
placed against foundation.
               C.   Frame Inspection: To be made after the roof, all framing,
fireblocking, and bracing are in place and all pipes, chimneys and vents are
complete.
               D.   Insulation Inspection: To be made before sheet rock work
commences.
               E.   Lath and/or Wallboard Inspection: To be made after all
lathing and/or wallboard, interior and exterior, is in place, but before any
plastering is applied or before wallboard joints and fasteners are taped and
finished.
               F.   Final Inspection: To be made after building is completed
and ready for occupancy.
         (iii)   In addition to the called inspections specified above, the
Building Official may make or require any other inspections of any construction
work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of the building code and other
laws which are enforced by the City.
         (iv)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the building
code, the Building Official may cause any structure to be reinspected.
      (2)   Special Inspections:
         (a)   Special Inspections Enumerated: In addition to the inspections
to be made as specified in subsection (L) of this Section, the owner or his/her
agent shall employ a special inspector who shall be present at all times during
construction on the following types of work:
            (i)   Concrete: On concrete work when the design is based on an “f”
in excess of 2,000 pounds.
            (ii)   Masonry: On masonry work which shall have special inspection
when required by the Building Official.
            (iii)   Welding: On all structural welding.
            (iv)   Reinforced Gypsum Concrete: When cast-in-place reinforced
gypsum concrete is being mixed or deposited.
            (v)   Special Cases: On special construction or work involving
unusual hazards or requiring constant inspection.
         (b)   Exemptions:
            (i)   The Building Official may waive the requirement for the
employment of a special inspector if he/she finds that the construction or work
is such that no unusual hazard exists.
            (ii)   Special inspections required by this Section and elsewhere
in the building code shall not be required where the work is done on the
premises of a fabricator approved by the Building Official to perform such work
without special inspection. The certificate of approval shall be subject to
revocation by the Building Official if it is found that any work done pursuant
to the approval is in violation of the building code.
   (M)   Fees.
      (1)   Building Permit Fees: Building permit fees shall be established by
Chapter 34 of this Code. No permit as required by this chapter shall be issued
until the fees prescribed by said ordinance have been paid, nor shall an
amendment to a permit be approved until the additional fees, if any, due to an
increase in the estimated cost of the building or structure have been paid.
      (2)   Plan Checking Fees:
         (a)   When a plan check is required, a plan checking fee computed
according to the uniform building code shall be charged by the City.
         (b)   Where plans are incomplete or changed so as to require
additional plan checking, or the City incurs costs due to the plan check over
the amount specified, an additional plan check fee shall be charged at a rate
established by the Building Official.
         (c)   Plans for all proposed buildings shall be prepared by an
architect registered by the state board of architecture, engineering, land
surveying landscape architecture, geoscience and interior design as required by
Minn. Stat. § 326.02 et seq.
         (d)   The plan checking fee shall be paid by the applicant to the City
prior to issuance of a building permit by the Building Official.
      (3)   Service Availability Charge: Applicants for building permits for
all new residential, commercial or industrial construction within the
metropolitan sewer service area shall be required to pay a sewer service
availability charge in accordance with a schedule which shall be established by
the metropolitan council environmental services from time to time, said charge
to be payable at the time of the issuance of a building permit.
      (4)   Determination Of Value: The determination of value or valuation
under any of the provisions of the building code shall be determined by using
the most current estimate of construction costs as furnished by the Minnesota
state building code division.
      (5)   Exemptions From Fees: All proposed buildings which shall be wholly
owned by a governmental unit or political subdivision shall be exempt from the
building permit fees and plan checking fee, provided the designing architect or
engineer shall submit evidence to the Building Official to substantiate that
the provisions of the ordinance will be and are followed when such provisions
are applicable.
§ 132.03 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all installations of
electrical conductors, fittings, devices, and fixtures, hereinafter referred to
as "electrical equipment", within or on public buildings and premises.
   (B)   As used in this Chapter, "reasonably safe to persons and property", as
applied to electrical installations and electrical equipment, means safe to use
in the service for which the installation or equipment is intended without
unnecessary hazard to life, limb, or property.
   (C)   Installation Standards.
      (1)   General Standards. All installations of electrical equipment shall
be reasonably safe to persons and property and in conformity with the
provisions of this Chapter, the applicable statutes of the State and all
orders, rules and regulations issued by authority thereof.
      (2)   Compliance with Electrical Code. Conformity of installations of
electrical equipment with applicable regulations set forth in the most current
edition of the National Electrical Code.
   (D)   Permit Requirements
      (1)   Permit Required; Exemptions. No electrical equipment shall be
installed within or on any building, structure or premises, publicly owned, nor
shall any alteration or addition be made in any such existing equipment without
first securing a permit therefor from the Electrical Inspector except that no
permit will be required to execute any of the following classes of electrical
work:
         (a)   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to installations
used by electrical supply or communication agencies in the generation,
transmission, or distribution of electricity or for the operation of signals or
the transmission of intelligence, and located within or on buildings or
premises used exclusively by such agency or on public thoroughfares.
         (b)   Public service corporations shall not be required to obtain
permits or inspection for work upon or in connection with their own properties.
         (c)   Manufacturers shall not be required to obtain permits or
inspection for work incorporated within equipment as a part of product
manufacturing.
         (d)   Permits shall be granted only to holders of master electricians'
licenses who are registered and bonded by the State; except, that licensed
journeymen electricians and qualified apprentices may wire their own property
and be granted a permit to do same hereunder.
      (2)   State License Required. Every applicant for permit in the City
shall furnish a certificate from the State Board of Electricity stating that
they have passed the examination as master electrician as prescribed by such
Board and that they hold a master electrician's State license.
      (3)   Application for Permit; Issuance. Application for a permit under
this Chapter, describing the work to be done, shall be made in writing to the
Electrical Inspector by the person installing the work. The application shall
be accompanied by such plans, specifications and schedules as may be necessary
to determine whether the installation as described will be in conformity with
the requirements of this Chapter. If it shall be found that the installation as
described will conform with all legal requirements and if the applicant has
complied with all provisions of this Chapter, a permit for such installation
shall be issued.
      (4)   Deviation from Installation Procedures. No deviation may be made
from the installation prescribed in the permit without the written approval of
the Electrical Inspector.
   (E)   Electrical Inspector
      (1)   Duties and Powers. It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector
to enforce the provisions of this Chapter. The Electrical Inspector shall, upon
application, grant permits for the installation or alteration of electrical
equipment and shall make inspections of electrical installations all as
provided in this Chapter. The Electrical Inspector shall keep complete records
of all permits as provided in this Chapter and shall keep complete records of
all permits issued, inspections and reinspections made and other official work
performed in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. They shall also
keep on file a list of inspected electrical equipment issued by or for
Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., which list shall be accessible for the public
reference during regular office hours.
      (2)   Dangerous Conditions. When any electrical equipment is found by the
Electrical Inspector to be dangerous to persons or property because it is
defective or defectively installed, the person responsible for the electrical
equipment shall be notified in writing and shall make any changes or repairs
required in the judgment of the Electrical Inspector or place such equipment in
safe condition, and if such work is not completed within 15 days or any longer
period that may be specified by the Electrical Inspector in such notice, the
Electrical Inspector shall have the authority to disconnect or order the
discontinuance of electric service to such electrical equipment. In cases of
emergency, where necessary for safety to persons or property or where
electrical equipment may interfere with the work of the Fire Division, the
Electrical Inspector shall have the    authority to disconnect or cause the
disconnection immediately of any electrical equipment.
   (F)   Inspections
      (1)   Notice Of Inspection: Upon the completion of any installation of
electrical equipment which has been made under a permit, it shall be the duty
of the person making the installation to notify the Electrical Inspector that
the installation is ready for inspection.
      (2)   Certificate of Approval:
         (a)   Issuance of Certificate. Where the Electrical Inspector finds
the installation to be in conformity with the provisions of this Chapter, the
Inspector shall issue a certificate of approval, with duplicate copy for
delivery to the owner authorizing the use of the installation and connection to
the supply of electricity, and shall send written notice of such authorization
to the agency supplying the electric service.
         (b)   Temporary Certificate of Approval. When a certificate of
approval is issued authorizing the connection and use of a temporary
installation, such certificate shall be issued to expire at a time to be stated
therein.
      (3)   Concealed Equipment. When any electrical equipment is to be hidden
from view by the permanent placement of parts of the building, the person
installing the equipment shall notify the Electrical Inspector, and such
equipment shall not be concealed until it has been inspected and approved by
the Electrical Inspector or until 24 hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays, shall have elapsed from the time of such notification; provided, that
on large installations, where the concealment of equipment proceeds
continuously, the person installing the electrical equipment shall give the
Electrical Inspector due notice, and inspections shall be made periodically
during the progress of the work.
      (4)   Work Done Under Annual Permit. At regular intervals the Electrical
Inspector shall visit all premises where work may be done under annual permits
and shall inspect all electrical equipment installed under such a permit since
the date of the last previous inspection.
§ 132.04 PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by reference the most recent edition of the
Minnesota Department of Health Plumbing Code, Minnesota Administrative Rules,
Chapter 4714.
   (B)   Permit Requirements.
      (1)   Permit Required. Before proceeding with any plumbing construction,
enlargement, alteration or repair, the owner of the property where such
plumbing is proposed, shall first obtain a permit for such purpose from the
Building Official.
      (2)   Application for Permit. Application for such permit shall identify
the owner of the property, the legal description of the property where the work
is proposed, the nature of the proposed work and the identity of the contractor
who is to perform the work.
   (C)   The fee for a plumbing permit is established in
Chapter 34 of this Code.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Building Official to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter.
      (1)   Inspections:
         (a)   Inspections Required; Defects. All plumbing work hereafter
constructed shall be inspected, and if found not to be in accordance with the
Plumbing Code, shall be corrected.
         (b)   Corrections by City; Costs. If, after written notice to the
person installing work requiring correction thereof, such person neglects or
refuses to conform to such order, the Building Official may remove such work
and charge the cost thereof to the person installing the same.
         (c)   Number of Inspections: At least two inspections shall be
required, one when the rough work is completed and one upon completion of the
work.
      (2)   The provisions of this Section are in addition to and not in lieu
of the Plumbing Code under Minnesota Administrative Rules, Chapter 4714.
§ 132.05 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   The Minnesota State Fire Code, most current edition with amendments,
one copy of which is marked as the official copy and which is on file with the
City Clerk, is hereby adopted in its entirety as the Fire Code for the City for
the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life
and property from fire or explosion, except such portions as are modified or
amended by other sections of this Chapter. Every provision contained in the
Fire Code as amended, except as modified or amended by this Chapter, is hereby
adopted and made part of this Chapter as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Permits.
      (1)   Each permit issued by the Fire Chief, pursuant to the Minnesota
State Fire Code shall be issued for a one-year period unless otherwise provided
in this Section.
      (2)   Tank installation permits shall be valid until revoked by the Fire
Chief or their designee.
      (3)   Permit fees are established in
Chapter 34  of this Code. Pro rata adjustments, on a monthly basis, shall be
made for permits in effect less than one full year.
      (4)   The Fire Chief shall establish procedures and forms to carry out
the intent of this Section.
   (C)   Optional Appendices Adopted.
      (1)   Appendix D of the Minnesota State Fire Code, Fire Apparatus Access
Roads.
   (D)   New Materials, Processes or Occupancies. The Fire Chief, the Building
Official and the City Clerk shall act as a committee to determine and specify,
after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials,
processes, or occupancies which shall require permits. The Fire Chief shall
then effect changes to the Fire Code.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   LAND AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
      151.   [RESERVED]
      
152.   ZONING
      
153.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
CHAPTER 150: LAND AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Grading, Filling and Excavation
   
150.02   Manufactured Homes
   
150.03   Minnesota Accessibility Code
   
150.04   Contractor’s License Required
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Authorization, intent and purpose
   
152.02   Title
   
152.03   Interpretation of terms
   
152.04   Definitions
   
152.05   Zoning map
   
152.06   Annexed land
   
152.07   Compliance with ordinance
   
152.08   Sexually-oriented establishments prohibited
   
152.09   Severability
Zoning Districts
   
152.20   Classification of zoning districts
   
152.21   R-1 Residential District
   
152.22   C-1 Central Business District
   
152.23   C-2 Commercial District
   
152.24   I Industrial District
   
152.25   Rural Residential and Agricultural District
Special Zoning Provisions
   
152.30   Performance standards for all zoning districts
   
152.31   Landscaping requirements
Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
   
152.35   Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
Sign Regulations
   
152.40   Intent and Purpose
   
152.41   Definitions
   
152.42   Administration and Enforcement
   
152.43   Permits
   
152.44   General and District Regulations
Fences, Walls or Screening
   
152.45   Fences, Walls or Screening
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.50   Administration and Enforcement
   
152.51   Final actions
   
152.52   Notice of decision
   
152.53   Land use permit required
   
152.54   Conditional use permits
   
152.55   Interim use permits
   
152.56   Variances
   
152.57   Nonconforming uses
   
152.58   Amendments
   
152.59   Board of Appeals and Adjustments; Appeals
   
152.60   Record of decisions
   
152.61   Lapse
 
   
152.99   Enforcement
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Platting Procedures
   
153.04   Exceptions to Plattings
   
153.05   Variances
   
153.06   Required Improvements
   
153.07   General Subdivision Standards
   
153.08   Design and Engineering Standards
   
153.09   Minimum Design Features
CHAPTER 150: LAND AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 GRADING, FILLING AND EXCAVATION.
   (A)   General:
      (1)   Actions Requiring Grading Permit: No person shall undertake,
authorize, or permit any excavating, grading, filling, or other change in the
earth’s topography resulting in the movement of more than 20 cubic yards of
material without first having obtained a grading permit from the City.
      (2)   When Grading Permit Not Required: No grading permit shall be
required under subsections (A) for any earthwork that will result in moving
less than 20 cubic yards of material, but any grading activity must comply with
subsection (D) of this section, grading standards.
      (3)   Plan Approved: The plan must be approved, where required, by
appropriate watershed districts, the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources (DNR), and any other governmental
agency that has jurisdiction.
      (4)   Requirements: In addition to all other plan requirements in this
chapter, any applicant disturbing an amount of total land area equal to or
exceeding the threshold amount described by current national pollution
discharge elimination system (NPDES) requirements shall comply with the
following additional requirements:
         (a)   The property owner shall apply for and be issued an NPDES
general stormwater permit from the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA);
and
         (b)   The property owner or applicant shall submit to the City an
approved copy of the erosion and sediment control plan as required for the
NPDES by the MPCA.
   (B)   Grading Permit Application Requirements: Application for grading
permit approval may be initiated by the owner, user or potential user of the
subject property by making application in writing to the City, on such forms as
may be designated. The application shall include two copies of clearly legible
blue or black lined copies of all drawings on bond paper. The maximum size of
plans shall be 30” x 40” and the minimum size shall be 11” x 17”. The grading
plan shall contain the following minimum information and any other items that
the City considers necessary for the proper consideration of the application:
      (1)   General Information:
         (a)   Legal Description of Property: The legal description of the
property and evidence of ownership or an interest in the property;
         (b)   Permittee Signature: A signature by the permittee, or his
authorized agent, and the property owner;
         (c)   Names, Contact Information: Names, addresses, and phone numbers
of the record owner, any agent having control of the land, the land surveyor,
the engineer, and the designer of the plan;
         (d)   Location Map: A location map, including area within one-half
mile of the site;
         (e)   Property Survey: Property survey with boundary line of property
and property dimensions; an arrow indicating the direction of north; a scale,
using a graduated line, which represents the drawn dimensions in relation to
actual size of the project site, usually in number of feet per inch;
         (f)   Training: The applicant must identify a person knowledgeable and
experienced in the application of erosion prevention and sediment control best
management practices who will oversee the implementation of the Storm Water
Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP), if required, and the installation,
inspection and maintenance of the erosion prevention and sediment control best
management practices before and during construction. Name of person(s) trained,
proof of training, date and course name/provider must be on record and made
available as part of the permit application.
         (g)   Date: Date of plan preparation; and
         (h)   Engineer/Surveyor Signature: A signature by a registered
engineer or land surveyor.
      (2)   Site Information:
         (a)   Existing and proposed final grades utilizing a minimum of two-
foot contour interval (at least 100 feet beyond the property boundary);
         (b)   All hold down elevations;
         (c)   The location of any existing or proposed buildings, structures,
fences and retaining walls, walks, roads, drives, and parking areas on the
property where the work is to be performed and those on land of adjacent owners
which are within 15 feet of the property or which may be affected by the
proposed grading operations;
         (d)   A delineation of all streams, rivers, ponds, public waters,
designated floodplain, shoreland, and wetlands located on and immediately
adjacent to the site, including depth of water, a statement of general water
quality and any classification given to the water body or wetland by the
Minnesota DNR (include DNR number and ordinary high water level), the MPCA, the
Fish and Wildlife Service, and/or the U.S. Corps of Engineers; and
         (e)   Utilities and utility right of way and easements, including
electric, natural gas, telephone, water (domestic and fire), and sewer
(sanitary and storm).
      (3)   Plans Required: The following plans are also required and may
either be included on the site plan or separately, meeting the general
application requirements and information:
         (a)   A drainage plan that includes the directional flow for the
different drainage areas, any engineering work for stormwater control and
retention that may be necessary;
         (b)   An erosion control plan indicating the type and location of
temporary and permanent erosion control, sediment control, and soil
stabilization measures to be used and a progress schedule addressing the
critical dates of completion for erosion control, grading, seeding and related
site work;
         (c)   A landscaping and site restoration plan including species,
sizes, descriptions, and locations; and
         (d)   If more than ten acres are disturbed and drained to a single
point of discharge temporary sediment basins must be installed. When site
restrictions do not allow for a temporary sediment basin, equivalent measures
as approved by the City may be used.
      (4)   Fees: The fee required in
Chapter 34 of this Code.
      (5)   Additional Information: In addition to the items enumerated above,
the City may require submission of the following:
         (a)   A development concept plan indicating how the recontoured parcel
may be developed in a manner consistent with City ordinances and the City’s
comprehensive plan;
         (b)   A description of traffic movements to and from the site to
ensure grading activity does not have a significant adverse effect on roads,
intersections, or development in the area; and
         (c)   Such other information as may be required by the City.
   (C)   Administrative Review:
      (1)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the City Engineer shall
review the application and notify the applicant by mail of the decision to
approve or deny the application. Grading permits shall be issued only for
grading plans providing for adequate drainage, stormwater retention, and
erosion and sediment control measures. The City may impose such modifications
and conditions as may be necessary to protect the public interest.
      (2)   Any applicant aggrieved by a decision of the City Engineer may
appeal the determination to the City Council.
      (3)   The City Engineer shall have the authority to revise a grading
permit if on site conditions or changing conditions make the original grading
permit ineffective.
      (4)   The City may inspect the site for installation of appropriate
erosion control, tree protection barriers, and other devices prior to issuance
of the final grading permit.
      (5)   The permittee shall notify the City Engineer when the grading
operation is ready for final inspection. Final approval shall not be given
until all work, including installation of all drainage facilities and their
protective devices, and all erosion and sediment control measures have been
completed in accordance with the final approved grading plan signed by the City
and submission of an as built survey.
   (D)   Grading, Filling, And Excavating Standards:
      (1)   Vegetation And Ground Cover: The plan shall maximize the
preservation of trees and existing vegetation on the property according to the
following:
         (a)   Prior to commencement of grading, all trees identified for
preservation shall be field identified and grading limits cordoned with a
suitable barrier such as snow fencing by the applicant and verified by the
City. The barrier shall be located to coincide to the extent practicable with
the drip line of trees to be preserved;
         (b)   Finished grades shall have a minimum topsoil of at least six
inches;
         (c)   Stabilization of all exposed soils (including stockpiles) must
be initiated immediately whenever the construction activity has been
permanently or temporarily ceased on any portion of the site and will not
resume for a period exceeding 14 calendar days. Stabilization must be completed
no later than 14 calendar days after the construction activity for that portion
of the site has been permanently or temporarily ceased;
         (d)   All exposed soil areas within 100 feet of a water of the State
or storm drain inlet, or conveyance channel within 100 feet of a water of the
State, shall have temporary or permanent cover, consistent with current NPDES
permit guidelines;
         (e)   In instances where an existing natural or created buffer will be
impacted by grading or filling operations, site restoration shall be completed
by the permittee in a manner which resembles, to the extent possible, the
original vegetative and topographic state of the property, when deemed
appropriate by the City;
         (f)   Any activity which changes the land surface, including removing
vegetative cover, excavating, filling, grading, construction of any structure,
or alteration of the topographic state of the property, and creates erosion or
sedimentation problems, flooding, ponding and/or negatively alters water
drainage shall be corrected by the owner, or designee as determined by the
City;
         (g)   Permanent sediment basins should be designed and constructed
with a maintenance access route from an established public right of way. This
route shall be a minimum of 25 feet in width and be at a maximum grade of 5:
1 at the point of access to the basin. Sediment basins and their maintenance
shall be completed in accordance with accepted design criteria, standards and
specifications found in the MPCA publication “Protecting Water Quality In Urban
Areas”.
      (2)   Grading Or Development Activities: The plan and grading activity
must comply with the following:
         (a)   Land shall be developed in phases of workable size such that
adequate erosion and sediment control measures can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any one
period of time;
         (b)   For soil stockpiles greater than ten cubic yards, the toe of the
stockpile must be at least 30 feet from any road, drainage channel, stormwater
inlet, or water of the state. Erosion from stockpiles shall be controlled by
placing appropriate barriers around the pile as necessary to contain sediments.
If these measures do not adequately control the erosion, the piles shall be
stabilized by mulching, vegetative cover, tarps, or other means. In street
utility repair or construction, soil stockpiles located closer than 30 feet of
a roadway, drainage channel, stormwater inlet or water of the state must be
covered with tarps or suitable alternative control. All stockpiles shall have
adequate sediment control measures surrounding its perimeter;
         (c)   All storm drain inlets shall be protected during construction,
until permanent control measures are in place, with a temporary measure such as
straw bales, silt fence or equivalent barrier meeting accepted design criteria,
standards and specifications found in the MPCA publication “Protecting Water
Quality In Urban Areas”;
         (d)   A temporary construction entrance must be installed at all
points where vehicles exit a land alteration site and must be constructed prior
to commencement of grading activity. The construction entrance is to be
maintained to accommodate continuous removal of mud from vehicles. The
construction entrance shall meet design criteria, standards and specifications
found in the MPCA publication “Protecting Water Quality In Urban Areas”;
         (e)   Streets abutting the site shall be swept as needed to remove any
sediment and/or debris that may accumulate due to land alteration activities.
The City may require street sweeping within 24 hours of verbal or written
notification. If the street is not swept, the City will clean the street and
bill the owner or permittee, as determined by the City Engineer;
         (f)   Corrective action and landscape restoration for erosion or
sedimentation problems on neighboring properties, or any location other than
the permitted site, shall commence within 24 hours of written or verbal
notification. Sediment removal from wetlands should not commence without prior
approval of the City;
         (g)   Under no circumstances shall organic material or construction
debris from the site be buried;
         (h)   Water pumped from the site, or from any dewatering operation
associated with the permitted activity, shall be treated by temporary
sedimentation basins, grit chambers, sand filters, upflow chambers,
hydrocyclones, swirl concentrators or other appropriate controls as
appropriate, as determined by the City. Water may not be discharged in a manner
that causes erosion, sedimentation or flooding of the site or receiving
channels or a wetland;
         (i)   The grading plan shall adhere to erosion and sediment control
standards and specifications contained in the MPCA publication “Protecting
Water Quality In Urban Areas” and the “Minnesota Construction Site Erosion And
Sediment Control Planning Handbook”;
         (j)   All erosion and sediment control devices including silt fence,
gravel, hay bales or other measures must be installed, consistent with the
approved plan, and verified by the City prior to commencement of grading
activity. Silt fence shall be properly installed by being trenched and buried
at least six inches into the soil. All erosion and sediment control devices
shall be removed from the construction site and properly disposed of or
recycled within 30 days of the establishment of permanent vegetative cover on
the disturbed areas;
          (k)   The plan shall not result in sites that are unsatisfactory for
development of permitted uses. The development potential of a site may be
adversely impacted by such matters as unsuitable finished grades, poor soil
stability, unsatisfactory drainage or exposure to deleterious influences such
as highway frontage for residential property;
         (l)   The plan shall include dust control measures such as daily or
more frequent watering if needed for dust suppression;
         (m)   Drainage swales shall be constructed to divert stormwater runoff
toward a stormwater conveyance system or infiltration area for property
treatment. Minimum grades on drainage swales should be 1.5%;
         (n)   Appropriate on-site containment must be provided for all trash,
solid waste, construction debris, floating debris, and hazardous materials.
Waste shall be disposed of only in approved locations;
         (o)   Site grading activity cannot occur between the time period of 7:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. except by special exception granted in writing by the
City Engineer.
      (3)   Modification Of Plan: Control measures other than those contained
in the erosion and sediment control plan approved by the City, may be used only
upon expressed approval of the City, based on the determination that they will
effectively protect against erosion.
      (4)   Inspections: Inspections and maintenance must be documented and
readily available by the permittee consistent with current NPDES permit
guidelines.
      (5)   Maintenance: Maintenance is required as follows:
         (a)   When sediment reaches half the height of the best management
practice’s perimeter control devices, sediment must be removed within 24 hours.
Temporary sediment basins must be drained or sediment removed within 72 hours.
         (b)   If the perimeter control device is not functional it must be
repaired or replaced within 24 hours.
         (c)   Sediment tracked from construction site vehicle entrance and
exit locations must be removed from paved surfaces within 24 hours of
discovery.
      (6)   Right Of Entry and Inspection: The permittee and property owner
shall allow the City and their authorized representatives, upon presentation of
credentials:
         (a)   To enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of obtaining
information, examination of records, conducting investigations or surveys.
         (b)   To bring such equipment upon the permitted site as is necessary
to conduct such surveys and investigations.
         (c)   To examine and copy any books, papers, records, or memoranda
pertaining to activities or records required to be kept under the terms and
conditions of the permitted activity.
         (d)   To inspect the erosion and sediment control measures required by
the permit.
         (e)   To sample and monitor any items or activities pertaining to
permits issued by the City.
         (f)   To enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of correcting
any grading condition that presents an imminent hazard to persons or property.
Except in the case of emergencies, the City must notify the permittee of the
condition to be corrected and provide the permittee a reasonable opportunity
(not less than 24 hours) to correct the condition prior to entering the
permitted site and performing the corrective work.
         (g)   To enter upon the permitted site after the suspension or
revocation of the permit for the purpose of correcting violations or providing
appropriate stabilization and ground cover to address any erosion concerns.
   (E)   Suspension Or Revocation: The City may suspend or revoke a grading
permit whenever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect
information supplied, or is found to be in violation of any local, state, or
federal ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this section. The
City will provide written notice of the intent to suspend or revoke the permit
based upon the above criteria. If within seven days of notification to the
permittee, the situation related to the revocation or suspension has not been
brought into compliance the permit will be considered null and void.
   The City may suspend grading activity if it is found that the grading
activity is in violation with this section or any conditions stated on the face
of the approved grading permit. To ensure that the grading activity is being
conducted in accordance with the conditions stated on the permit and with the
requirements of this section, the City may make, at the expense of the person
or firm conducting the land alteration, those field measurements the City deems
necessary to assure that such conditions and requirements are being followed,
such work to be done at the direction of the City on an hourly basis at the
time charge fixed by the City.
   (F)   Violations: Any person, company or organization who violates, fails to
comply with, or assists, directs, or permits the violation of the terms or
conditions of an approved site and building plan, landscape plan, or grading
plan shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Such violation shall be a violation of
the approved site and building plan, landscape plan, or grading plan and shall
render the approval or plan null and void.http://sterlingcodifiers.com/
codebook/index.php?book_id=500&chapter_id=27117#s1012838
§ 150.02 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   After the date of the adoption of this code, only manufactured homes which
comply with the Manufactured Home Building Code established by Minn. Stat. §
327.31 may be located in and used as a dwelling within the City. A mobile home,
manufactured home, house trailer or other mobile dwelling which does not comply
with the Manufactured Home Building Code and which is used as a residence after
the date of the adoption of this code is a nonconforming use as defined by
Minn. Stat. § 462.357, Subd. 1e, and this nonconforming use may be continued,
including through repair, maintenance, replacement, restoration or improvement
but if the nonconformity or occupancy is discontinued for a period of more than
one year, or the nonconforming use is destroyed by fire or other peril to the
extent of greater than 50% of its market value and no building permit is
applied for within 180 days of when the property is damaged, any subsequent use
or occupancy of the land or premises shall be a conforming use or occupancy.
§ 150.03 MINNESOTA ACCESSIBILITY CODE.
   (A)   The Minnesota Accessibility Code, established pursuant to Minn. Stat.
§§ 326B.01 - 326B.998, and as provided for in Minn. Rules Ch. 1341, is adopted
as the building code for accessibility in this city. Minn. Stat. § 326B.16
provides that a city which has not adopted the Uniform State Building Code is
nevertheless responsible for the enforcement of the Minnesota Accessibility
Code, and this section is intended to comply with that requirement.
   (B)   No building subject to the provisions of the Minnesota Accessibility
Code shall be constructed, reconstructed or substantially altered, or undergo a
change in use within the city unless the building will comply with the
Minnesota Accessibility Code after the construction or alteration is completed
or the change in use occurs.
   (C)   Any person who constructs, reconstructs or substantially alters any
building subject to the Minnesota Accessibility Code, or changes the use of any
such building shall, before construction or alteration begins, certify to the
City Clerk that the applicable provisions of the Minnesota Accessibility Code
will be complied with.
   (D)   No person shall be issued a building, zoning or land use permit unless
they certify that any structure to be located on the property shall be
constructed or reconstructed in compliance with the handicapped accessibility
provisions, if they apply to the structure to be constructed, substantially
altered or reconstructed.
§ 150.04 CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No residential building contractor, residential remodeler, or other person
who is required to be licensed by the State under the provisions of Minn. Stat.
§§ 326B.805 – 326B.89, and no person employing a residential contractor, who is
required to be licensed, shall be issued a building, zoning or land use permit
unless that contractor is licensed. Any person applying for a permit who is
required to have a state license but who does not have a state license shall be
reported to the State Commissioner of Commerce, who may begin an action against
the person.
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 AUTHORIZATION, INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the
Municipal Planning Act, Minn. Stat. §§ 462.351 et seq. The intent of this
chapter is to ensure public health, safety and general welfare in accordance
with the adopted development goals, plans and policies as stated hereto. This
plan for the city is to ensure that the land uses of the city are properly
situated in relation to one another, providing for adequate space for each type
of development; to control the density of development in each area of the city
so that the property can be adequately serviced by such governmental facilities
as streets, schools, recreation and utilities systems; to direct new growth
into appropriate areas; to protect existing property by requiring that the
development afford adequate light, air and privacy for persons living and
working within the city; to improve the quality of the physical environment of
the city; to protect and maintain property values, and to preserve and develop
the economic base of the city.
   (B)   This chapter is not in effect until the provisions of §
152.05 of this Code are complied with and notice and public hearing is provided
as required by Minn. Stat. § 462.357 Subd. 3.
§ 152.02 TITLE.
   This chapter, together with the zoning map required at §
152.05 of this Code, shall be known as the ”City Zoning Ordinance” except as
referred to herein, where it shall be known as “this Ordinance” or “this
chapter.”
§ 152.03 INTERPRETATIONS OF TERMS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common
usage unless such meaning is clearly contrary to the intent of this chapter and
so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application. For the purpose of
this chapter, the words “must” and “shall” are mandatory and “may” is
permissive. All distances, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured
horizontally. For the purpose of this chapter, the terms in §
152.04 of this Code have the meanings given them.
§ 152.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. Any building or improvement located on the
same lot as the principal use subordinate to a principal use which, because of
the nature of its use, can reasonably be located at or greater than normal
structure setbacks.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use on the same lot with and incidental and subordinate to
the principal use or structure or facility.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns, walls or other
means of support for the shelter or enclosure of persons or property.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high water
level at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
   COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental or trade of products, goods and services and other activities carried
out for financial gain.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development as defined by ordinance that
would not be appropriate generally but may be allowed with appropriate
restrictions as provided by official controls upon a finding that certain
conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist, the use or development
conforms to comprehensive land use plan of the community, and the use is
compatible with the existing neighborhood. The city may impose additional
conditions in specific instances to protect the health, safety and welfare.
   DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises, or other features, attached or functionally related to
principal use or site and at any point extending more than three feet above
ground level.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof used for occupancy by
three or more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building used exclusively for occupancy by one
family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building used exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING SITE. A designated location for residential use by one or more
persons using temporary or movable shelter, including camping and recreational
vehicle sites.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any structure or portion of a structure or other shelter
designed as short or long-term living quarters for one or more persons,
including rental or time-share accommodations, such as motel, hotel and resort
rooms and cabins.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A lawful occupation customarily carried on by a resident of
a dwelling as an accessory use within the same building. Such occupation must
be clearly secondary to the principal use and not change the nature of the
principal use.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items.
   LIGHT INDUSTRIAL. The assembly, fabrication or processing of goods and
materials using processes that ordinarily do not create noise, smoke, fumes,
odors, glare or health or safety hazards outside the building or lot where the
assembly, fabrication or processing takes place, where the processes are housed
entirely within a building, or where the outdoor storage of goods and materials
used does not exceed 25% of the floor area of all buildings on the lot.
   LOT. A parcel of land designated by plat, metes and bounds, registered land
survey, auditors plot, or other accepted means, and separated from other
parcels or portions by that description for the purpose of sale, lease or
separation. A lot must be situated and have its principal frontage on a public
street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two or more streets, or
bounded on two or more adjacent sides by street lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. A line of record bounding a lot which divides a lot from another
lot, a public street or any other public or private space.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. A lot line abutting a dedicated public right-of-way.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line. In the case of corner lots, the rear lot line shall be determined by the
zoning administrator based upon characteristics of the surrounding
neighborhood.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT WIDTH. The shortest distance between lot lines measured at the midpoint
of the building line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections which
in the traveling mode is eight feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in
length, or when erected on-site is 320 or more square feet, and which is built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating and air conditioning and electrical systems contained
therein, and which meets all the requirements established under Minn. Stat. §
327.31, the Manufactured Home Building Code.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE. A structure or use lawfully in existence on
the effective date of this chapter or any amendment thereto, and not conforming
to the regulations for the district in which it is situated.
   NONCONFORMITY. Any legal use, structure or parcel of land already in
existence, recorded, or authorized before the adoption of official controls or
amendments thereto that would not have been permitted to become established
under the terms of the official controls as now written, if the official
controls had been in effect prior to the date it was established, recorded or
authorized.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty truck and is
primarily designed not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment in which food and/or drink is offered or
prepared and served for public consumption and is served to customers at tables
by employees. Restaurants may include incidental take-out service.
   SETBACK. The minimum distance from any lot line that an improvement may be
placed, measured perpendicularly from the lot line to the closest point of the
improvement.
   SETBACK LINE. The line which is the specified setback -distance from and
parallel to any lot line, or other specified line, such as the ordinary high
water level, edge of wetland, floodplain, or top of bluff.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED ESTABLISHMENTS. An establishment engaged in adult uses; in
which there is an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction, or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”
which are capable of being seen by members of the public; or which engages in
any of the following practices:
      (1)   An establishment that engages in activities conducted exclusively
for the patronage of adults, and to which minors are excluded from patronage,
either by law or by the rules of the establishment.
      (2)   An establishment that has a significant portion of its floor space
or activities characterized by an emphasis on material relating to specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   STORAGE. Goods, materials or equipment placed or left in a location on a
premises.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, placed or erected on or attached to, in
some manner, the ground.
   STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL. The building in which is conducted the primary use of
the lot on which the building is located.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which a premises is designed, arranged or
intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM OR WINDMILL. An apparatus capable of
converting wind energy into electricity.
   YARD. An open space unobstructed from the ground upward with the exception
of landscape materials and minor fixtures of a non-structural nature commonly
found in a yard.
   YARD, FRONT. The area between the front lot line and the front setback line.
   YARD, REAR. The area between the rear lot line and the rear setback line.
   YARD, SIDE. A space extending from the front yard to the rear yard along a
side lot line measured perpendicularly from the side lot line to the closest
point of a structure.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The City Clerk or other person designated by the City
Council to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
§ 152.05 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   This chapter has no effect until the boundaries of the use districts
are delineated on an Official Zoning Map, created pursuant to Minn. Stat. §
462.357, Subd. 1, which, once it is adopted by ordinance after notice and
hearing as provided in Minn. Stat. § 462.357, Subd. 3, is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. This map shall be on
permanent file and available for public inspection in the City Office. It shall
be the responsibility of the Clerk or other person appointed by the City
Council to administer this chapter to maintain and keep the map up to date.
   (B)   All property within the city shall have the zoning designation shown
on the official zoning map. If there is any discrepancy or inconsistency
between the official zoning map and any other map, ordinance or source which
purports to indicate the zoning of property, the official zoning map shall take
precedence. The provisions of this section shall not be interpreted to require
the city to zone all properties within the city limits or to prevent zoning of
only a portion of the City.
   (C)   Zoning district boundary lines shown on the official zoning map are
intended to follow lot lines, the center lines of streets or alleys, the center
lines of street or alleys projected, railroad right-of-way lines, the center of
watercourses or the corporate limits of the City, unless otherwise specifically
indicated.
§ 152.06 ANNEXED LAND.
   Any land hereafter annexed to the City shall be considered to be in the
district that is delineated on the adjacent areas than are designated for
orderly annexation, unless otherwise reclassified.
§ 152.07 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no
structure shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or
structurally altered, except in conformity with the regulations specified in
the Zoning Ordinance for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall be minimum requirements. Where
the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter differ from those
required by any statute or other ordinance of the city, the regulations which
are more restrictive or which impose the higher standard shall prevail.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 SEXUALLY-ORIENTED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
   As outlined in Minn. Stat. § 617.242 Subd. 3, because an existing sexually-
oriented establishment is located within 50 miles, the City is not required to
provide zoning for a location within the City limits in which a sexually-
oriented establishment may be located. Pursuant to the authority granted in
Minn. Stat. § 617.242 Subd. 3, the City Zoning Ordinance therefore prohibits
sexually-oriented establishments in any zoning district within the City.
§ 152.09 SEVERABILITY.
   Every section or subdivision of this chapter is declared separable from
every other section or subdivision. If any section or subdivision is held to be
invalid by competent authority, no other section or subdivision shall be
invalidated by such action or decision.
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.20 CLASSIFICATION OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   R-1 Residential District
   (B)   C-1 Central Business District
   (C)   C-2 Central Business District
   (D)   I Industrial
   (E)   Rural Residential and Agricultural District
§ 152.21 R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the R-1 Residential District is to provide for
moderate density one and two-family dwelling units and directly related,
complementary uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses and structures.
      (1)   One and two-family dwelling units.
      (2)   Public, government owned parks, playgrounds, athletic fields and
other public recreational uses.
      (3)   Churches and places of religious assembly, public and private
schools and government-owned buildings and facilities.
      (4)   Agricultural gardens and forestry.
      (5)   Manufactured homes which must meet the following standards:
         (a)   Manufactured homes shall comply with all zoning regulations for
the district in which they are located.
         (b)   A building permit and any other required permits shall be
obtained for manufactured homes.
         (c)   All such manufactured homes shall be built in compliance with
any state laws regulating manufactured homes.
         (d)   Connection to city utilities, if available, shall be required.
      (6)   As required by Minn. Stat. § 462.357, Subd. 7, a state licensed
residential facility or a housing with services establishment registered under
Minn. Stat. § 144D, serving six or fewer persons, a licensed day care facility
serving 12 or fewer persons, and a group family day care facility licensed
under Minn. Rules, parts 9502.0315 to 9502.0445, to serve 14 or fewer children
shall be considered a permitted single family residential use of property for
the purposes of zoning, except that a residential facility whose primary
purpose is to treat juveniles who have violated criminal statutes relating to
sex offenses or have been adjudicated delinquent on the basis of conduct in
violation of criminal statutes relating to sex offenses shall not be considered
a permitted use.
   (C)   Accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   Customary accessory uses and structures that are incidental to the
principal use such as the following uses, are permitted:
         (a)   Gardens
         (b)   Detached private garage
         (c)   Attached screen porches
         (d)   Play equipment for single-family use
         (e)   One storage shed
         (f)   Satellite dishes and antennae
         (g)   Solar equipment
         (h)   Greenhouses not exceeding 12 feet in height or 500 square feet
or covering more than 30% of the area of the side or rear yard in which they
are located.
         (i)   Swimming pools intended for single-family use.
   All accessory buildings or structures related to the accessory use shall
comply with §
152.36. Accessory buildings or structures that do not comply with §
152.36 shall apply for a conditional use permit pursuant to §
152.21(D)(5).
      (2)   The renting of rooms by a resident family for lodging purposes
only, and for not more than two rooms in a one-family dwelling.
   (D)   Conditional uses. Within the R-1 District no structure or land shall
be used for the following except by conditional use permit.
      (1)   Home occupations in a residence, pursuant to the following
requirements:
         (a)   Such occupation shall be carried on in the main building;
         (b)   Not more than 25% of the floor space of the residence is used
for this purpose;
         (c)   No articles for sale be displayed so as to be visible from the
street;
         (d)   The conduct of the home occupation shall result in no change in
the outside appearance of the building or land, or other visible evidence of
the conduct of the home occupation, other than one sign, not exceeding one
square foot in area, non-illuminated and mounted flat against the wall of the
dwelling;
         (e)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood;
         (f)   Only limited retail sales activity;
         (g)   Maximum of one outside employee;
         (h)   Adequate off-street parking based on number of employees and
customers per day;
         (i)   Parking area screened from offsite views;
         (j)   No outside storage;
         (k)   Shall not result in significant levels of noise, air or other
pollution;
         (l)   Business hours restricted to no more than 8:00 a.m. to 9:00
p.m.; and
         (m)   Outside parking of no more than one commercial type vehicle or
vehicle identified for business purposes not to exceed one ton capacity which
is used for both personal and business transportation. The vehicle is to be
owned and registered by an occupant of the property and parked in a screened
location.
      (2)   Hospitals and nursing homes, pursuant to the following
requirements:
         (a)   Direct access limited to a collector or arterial roadway as
identified in the comprehensive plan, if any, or otherwise located so that
access can be provided without conducting significant traffic on local
residential streets;
         (b)   Buildings set back 50 feet from all property lines;
         (c)   No more than 70% of the site to be covered with impervious
surface and the remainder to be suitably landscaped;
         (d)   Signs shall be designed to be consistent with the principal use;
         (e)   Adequate off-street parking based on number of employees and
customers per day;
         (f)   Parking area and waste management areas screened from offsite
views;
         (g)   No outside storage; and
         (h)   Shall not result in significant levels of noise, air or other
pollution.
      (3)   Licensed day care centers serving 12 or more persons, pursuant to
the following requirements:
         (a)   Located only on a collector or arterial roadway as designated in
the comprehensive plan, if one exists, or otherwise located so that access can
be provided without conducting significant traffic on local residential
streets;
         (b)   Buildings set back 50 feet from all property lines and parking
lots set back 15 feet from streets and non-residential property and 25 feet
from residential property;
         (c)   Pick-up and drop-off areas located outside of parking setback
area;
         (d)   Outdoor recreational areas to be set back 15 feet from all
property lines and screening provided to mitigate noise and adverse visual
impacts on neighboring properties; and
         (e)   One parking space provided for each six children based upon the
licensed capacity of the center.
      (4)   Cemeteries.
      (5)   Accessory buildings that do not qualify as a permitted use under §
152.21(C)(1) are allowed by conditional use permit if they comply with §
152.36 as well as the following requirements:
         (a)   Side and rear setbacks equal to the height of the structure or
15 feet, whichever is greater;
         (b)   Not used for commercial activities;
         (c)   Structure is architecturally consistent with the principal
structure;
         (d)   Landscaping is required to buffer views when the structure is
highly visible from adjoining properties;
         (e)   Minimum lot size is four acres.
      (6)   Private recreational facilities as a principal use and excluding
accessory play equipment and swimming pools intended for single family use,
pursuant to the following requirements:
         (a)   Direct access limited to a collector or arterial roadway as
identified in the comprehensive plan, if any, or otherwise located so that
access can be provided without conducting significant traffic on local
residential streets;
         (b)   Buildings set back 50 feet from all property lines;
         (c)   No more than 70% of the site to be covered with impervious
surface and the remainder to be suitably landscaped in accordance with §
152.31 of this Code;
         (d)   Signs shall be designed to be consistent with the principal use;
         (e)   Adequate off-street parking based on number of employees and
customers per day;
         (f)   Parking area and waste management areas screened from offsite
views;
         (g)   No outside storage; and
         (h)   Shall not result in significant levels of noise, air or other
pollution.
      (7)   Multiple-family dwelling.
      (8)   As required by Minn. Stat. § 462.357, Subd. 8, a state licensed
residential facility serving from seven through 16 persons under Minn. Stat. §
144D.
   (E)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in an R-1 District, subject to additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Lot area. 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width. 100 feet.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards. Not less than 30 feet;
         (b)   Side yards. 10 feet.
         (c)   Side yards, corner lots. 25 feet on side adjacent to street, but
in no case less than the setback of an adjacent lot which has its front yard on
the same street.
         (d)   Rear yards. 30 feet.
      (4)   Access. All lots shall front on and have ingress and egress by
means of a public right-of-way.
   (F)   Building requirements; height. No principal structure shall exceed two
stories or 35 feet, whichever is less. Height limitations shall not apply to
water towers, chimneys, flag poles, antennae, church spires, church belfries or
church domes not containing habitable space.
   (G)   Parking. See §
152.35.
§ 152.22 C-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the C-1 Central Business District is in
recognition of the existing downtown business and commercial development and
the need for its future expansion, rehabilitation and redevelopment.
   (B)   Permitted uses and structures.
      (1)   Business and commercial establishments including:
         (a)   Retail establishments, including grocery, hardware, drug,
clothing, variety and furniture stores; eating and drinking places, auto
dealers, automobile service stations, farm implement dealerships, farm supply
stores, seasonal evergreen sales and meat locker shops.
         (b)   Personal services, including laundries, beauty shops, barber
shops, funeral homes, shoe repair shops, printing and publishing shops and
photographic studios.
         (c)   Professional services, including medical and dental clinics and
attorney’s offices.
         (d)   Repair services, including automobile, jewelry, radio and
television repair shops, appliance repair shops, farm and implement repair
shops, plumbing contractor’s shop and electrical contractor’s shop.
         (e)   Entertainment and amusement services, including motion picture
theatres, recreation halls and bowling alleys.
         (f)   Lodging services, including hotels and motels.
         (g)   Finance, insurance, real estate and tax services.
      (2)   Public and semi-public buildings, including post office, fire hall
and city hall.
      (3)   Private clubs.
      (4)   Apartments, provided they are located above the first floor level.
      (5)   Automobile parking lots.
      (6)   Essential services, such as sewer, water, telephone and electric
utility facilities.
      (7)   Churches and places of religious assembly.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses, such
as off-street parking and loading and unloading areas, signs, indoor storage of
merchandise and wholesaling and manufacturing, when incidental to a permitted
use, solar panels, satellite dishes and antennas.
   (D)   Conditional uses. Within the C-1 District no structure or land shall
be used for the following except by conditional use permit.
      (1)   One and two-family dwellings and multiple-family dwellings,
including manufactured homes meeting the standards as set forth in §
152.21(B)(5), and manufactured home parks licensed by the state, pursuant to
the following requirements:
         (a)   Building and site design shall provide a quality residential
environment which is compatible with the permitted use;
         (b)   At least two off-street parking spaces must be provided for the
each residential unit, with such parking to be in a garage, carport or on a
paved area specifically intended for that purpose;
         (c)   The dwelling unit must be in compliance with all applicable
building, housing, electrical, plumbing, heating and related City codes;
         (d)   The use will be permitted only where the dwelling unit will not
have an undue adverse impact on adjacent properties and where there will not be
a substantial alteration of the neighborhood character;
         (e)   The City may require buffering or screening if needed.
      (2)   Nonresidential licensed day care facilities, pursuant to the
following requirements:
         (a)   Shall have loading and drop-off points designed to avoid
interfering with traffic and pedestrian movements and designed to promote the
safety of children entering the center;
         (b)   Outdoor play areas shall be fenced and located and designed in a
manner which mitigates visual and noise impacts on adjoining residential areas
(if any);
         (c)   One parking space for each six attendees based on the licensed
capacity of the center shall be provided; and
         (d)   Shall obtain all applicable State, County and City licenses.
      (3)   Outdoor storage incidental to a principal use, pursuant to the
following requirements:
         (a)   Outdoor storage shall not be located within 100 feet of any
residential parcel;
         (b)   Outdoor storage shall be screened by suitable materials, such as
a fencings or natural landscaping features (trees, shrubbery, berms), as
determined by Council. The screen must be, at minimum, equal to the height of
the tallest item stored on the site;
         (c)   Outdoor storage must be located in a rear or side yard;
         (d)   Shall be kept in a neat and orderly fashion;
         (e)   Shall not contain any unlicensed or inoperable motor vehicles;
and
         (f)   Shall not be operated in a manner as to constitute a nuisance or
harborage of rodents or other wild animals.
      (4)   Drive-thru or drive-up window accessory to a principal use,
pursuant to the following requirements:
         (a)   Drive-up windows and stacking areas shall not be located
adjacent to any residential parcel;
         (b)   Stacking areas shall provide for a minimum of six cars per
aisle;
         (c)   Public address system shall not be audible from any residential
parcel;
         (d)   Drive-up windows and stacking areas shall be screened with
suitable materials from adjacent parcels; and
         (e)   Drive-up windows shall be designed to avoid interfering with
traffic and pedestrian movements.
      (5)   Sidewalk cafes and outdoor eating or dining areas accessory to a
principal use, pursuant to the following requirements:
         (a)   Shall be located in a controlled or cordoned area with at least
one opening to an acceptable pedestrian walk. When a liquor license is
involved, an enclosure is required and the enclosure shall not be interrupted;
access shall be only through the principal building;
         (b)   Shall not be permitted within 200 feet of any residential parcel
and shall be separated from residential parcels by the principal structure or
other method of screening acceptable to the City;
         (c)   Shall be located and designed so as not to interfere with
pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
         (d)   Shall not be located to obstruct parking spaces;
         (e)   Shall be located adjacent to an entrance to the principal use;
         (f)   Shall be equipped with refuse containers and periodically
patrolled for litter pick-up; and
         (g)   Shall not have speakers or audio equipment which is audible from
adjacent parcels.
   (E)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in the C-1 District, subject to additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Lot area. None.
      (2)   Lot width. None.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards. None.
         (b)   Side yards. 10 feet. 
         (c)   Rear yards. 15 feet.
      (4)   All lots shall front on and have ingress and egress by means of a
public right-of- way.
   (F)   Building requirements; height. No structure shall exceed three stories
or 45 feet, whichever is less. Height limitations shall not apply to water
towers, chimneys, flag poles, antennae, church spires, church belfries or
church domes not containing habitable space.
   (G)   Parking. See §
152.35.
§ 152.23 C-2 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the C-2 Commercial District is to provide for
commercial development outside of the C-1 Central Business District.
   (B)   Permitted uses and structures. All uses of a commercial nature,
including retail, light industrial, wholesale, service, office, financial,
recreational, professional, and lodging in compliance with applicable Chapters,
including all uses permitted in the C-1 Central Business District, and those
other commercial uses as are not considered industrial as listed in §
152.24.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Those accessory uses permitted in the C-1 Central
Business District.
   (D)   Conditional uses. Within the C-2 district no structure or land-shall
be used for the following except by conditional use permit.
      (1)   Any conditional use permitted in the C-1 Central Business District
which must comply with the standards set forth in 
152.22 (D).
   (E)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in the C-2 District, subject to additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Lot area. None.
      (2)   Lot width. None.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards. None.
         (b)   Side yards. Ten feet. 
         (c)   Rear yards. 15 feet.
      (4)   All lots shall front on and have ingress and egress by means of a
public right-of- way.
   (F)   Building requirements; height. No structure shall exceed three stories
or 45 feet, whichever is less. Height limitations shall not apply to water
towers, chimneys, flag poles, antennae, church spires, church belfries or
church domes not containing habitable space.
   (G)   Parking. See §
152.35.
§ 152.24 I – INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the I Industrial District is to provide for
industrial development outside of the other districts authorized by this
chapter. Development within the district shall be regulated through the
performance standards outlined in §
152.30 of this chapter to promote sensitive site design and to mitigate
external site impacts.
   (B)   Permitted uses and structures. Within the I District no structure or
land may be used except for the following uses occurring within an enclosed
building:
      (1)   Warehouse
      (2)   Storage
      (3)   Office
      (4)   Wholesale
      (5)   Research
      (6)   Government buildings
      (7)   Other such industrial uses which in the determination of the City
Council and as formally documented will be compatible and will not be
detrimental to uses allowed in this or contiguous districts.
   (C)   Accessory structures and uses. Within the I District the following
accessory uses are permitted provided they are subordinate to and associated
with a permitted use:
      (1)   Living quarters for security personnel, provided they are located
within the principal structure;
      (2)   Overnight outside storage of vehicles, provided the vehicles are
associated with the business and are screened from view from residential
properties or public views;
      (3)   Outside storage, including fuel storage, provided it is screened
from general public view;
      (4)   Retail or service uses not exceeding 25% of the gross floor area of
the principal structure;
      (5)   Other uses customarily associated with but subordinate to a
permitted use, as determined by the city.
      (6)   Solar panels and equipment, satellite dishes and-antennas.
   (D)   Conditional uses. Within the I District no land or structure may be
used for the following except by conditional use permit:
      (1)   Retail, or service uses occupying between 25% and 50% of the gross
area of the principal structure, pursuant to the following requirements:
         (a)   Shall be no exterior modifications to the building;
         (b)   Shall have no outside storage or display and no accessory
structures for retail sales purposes; and
         (c)   Shall have sufficient parking to accommodate the additional
retail traffic.
      (2)   Manufacturing.
      (3)   Processing
   (E)   District standards. No building or land in the I District shall be
used except in conformance with the following:
      (1)   Building height. Maximum of 45 feet or three stories, whichever is
less;
      (2)   Front yard setback. Minimum of 35 feet from local and neighborhood
collector streets as identified in the comprehensive plan, if any, or the
zoning map if no comprehensive plan is in existence; or a minimum of 50 feet
from railroad lines and from major collector or arterial roadways as designated
in the comprehensive;
      (3)   Side and rear yard setbacks. Minimum setbacks shall be in
accordance with the following when measured from land designated accordingly in
the comprehensive plan:
         (a)   70 feet from R-1 residential uses;
         (b)   30 feet from C-1 and C-2 commercial business uses; and
         (c)   20 feet from I District uses.
      (4)   Lot coverage. Maximum lot coverage shall be 85% and shall be
calculated to include building footprints; parking areas; driveways; loading,
storage and trash areas and other areas covered by any impervious surface.
      (5)   Access: from a collector or arterial roadway as designated in the
comprehensive plan, if any, or a street specifically designed to accommodate
industrial traffic.
      (6)   Trash enclosures or accessory buildings not to exceed 600 square
feet in size shall be located behind the front building line of the principal
building and not in any required set back.
      (7)   Parking. See §
152.35; and
      (8)   Performance standards shall be regulated pursuant to § §
152.30.
§ 152.25 RURAL RESIDENTIAL AND AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Rural Residential and Agricultural
District is to allow suitable areas of the city to be retained and utilized in
open space and/or agricultural uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the Rural
Residential and Agricultural District:
      (1)   Agriculture, including farm dwellings and agricultural related
buildings and structures subject to state pollution control standards, but not
including commercial feedlots or other commercial operations.
      (2)   One-family dwelling units.
      (3)   Public, government owned parks, playgrounds, wildlife areas and
game refuges, athletic fields and other public recreational uses.
      (4)   Churches and places of religious assembly, public and private
schools and government-owned buildings and facilities.
      (5)   Manufactured homes which meet the standards set forth in §
152.21(B)(5).
      (6)   As required by Minn. Stat. § 462.357, Subd. 7, a state licensed
residential facility or a housing with services establishment registered under
Minn. Stat. § 144D, serving six or fewer persons, a licensed day care facility
serving 12 or fewer persons, and a group family day care facility licensed
under Minn. Rules, parts 9502.0315 to 9502.0445, to serve 14 or fewer children
shall be considered a permitted single-family residential use of property for
the purposes of zoning, except that a residential facility whose primary
purpose is to treat juveniles who have violated criminal statutes relating to
sex offenses or have been adjudicated delinquent on the basis of conduct in
violation of criminal statutes relating to sex offenses shall not be considered
a permitted use.
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the
Rural Residential and Agricultural District:
      (1)   Operation and storage of such vehicles, equipment and machinery
which are incidental to permitted or conditional uses allowed in this district.
      (2)   Boat houses, piers and docks serving a single-family residence.
      (3)   Private garages, screen porches, play equipment, solar panel
equipment, satellite dishes and antennae.
      (4)   The renting of rooms by a resident family for lodging purposes
only, and for not more than two rooms in a one-family dwelling.
   (D)   Conditional uses. Within the Rural Residential and Agricultural
District no structure or land shall be used for the following except by
conditional use permit.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast inns, pursuant to the following requirements:
         (a)   The conduct of the bed and breakfast inn shall result in no
change in the outside appearance of the building or land, or other visible
evidence of the conduct of the bed and breakfast inn, other than one sign, not
exceeding one square foot in area, non-illuminated and mounted flat against the
wall of the dwelling.
         (b)   No traffic shall be generated by such bed and-breakfast inn in
greater volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood.
      (2)   Wind energy conversion systems (“WECS”) or windmills, pursuant to
the following requirements:
         (a)   Set back from the nearest property line a distance equal to the
height of the tower plus one-half the diameter of the rotor;
         (b)   Certified by a professional engineer as being of a design
adequate for the atmospheric conditions of the area;
         (c)   Equipped with over-speed or similar controls designed to prevent
disintegration of the rotor in high winds;
         (d)   Compliance with all building and electrical code requirements of
the city, the noise regulations of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and
the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and Federal
Aviation Administration;
         (e)   If the WECS has not been operated for a period of one year or
fails to meet the conditions of this chapter, the City Council may order it
dismantled and the site restored to its original condition;
         (f)   If the owner or person responsible for the WECS does not
maintain it or comply with all requirements of this chapter, the city may take
such steps as are necessary to achieve compliance. The cost of such work,
including administrative costs, shall be a lien against the property and may be
collected as a special assessment. The city may sell salvaged and valuable
materials at public auction on ten days’ notice.
      (3)   Home occupations, which meet the standards outlined in
152.21(D)(1).
   (E)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in the Rural Residential and Agricultural District, subject
to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this
chapter:
      (1)   Lot area. A minimum of two and one-half acres of upland area,
upland being land above the 100-year flood elevation or non-wetland.
      (2)   Lot width. A minimum of 200 feet.
      (3)   Lot depth. A minimum of 300 feet.
      (4)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yard. A minimum of 40 feet.
         (b)   Side yards. A minimum of 10 feet.
         (c)   Side yards, corner lots. A minimum of 30 feet on side adjacent
to street, but in no case less than the setback of an adjacent lot which has
its front yard on the same street.
         (d)   Rear yard. A minimum of 30 feet.
         (e)   Rear yard, corner lots. A minimum of 15 on side adjacent to
street, but in no case less than the setback of an adjacent lot which has its
rear yard on the same street.
      (5)   Detached accessory building setback requirements that comply with §
152.36.
      (6)   Access. All lots shall front on and have ingress and egress by
means of a public right-of-way.
   (F)   Building requirements; height. No structure shall exceed two stories
or 35 feet, whichever is less. Height limitations shall not apply to water
towers, chimneys, flag poles, antennae, wind energy conversion systems, church
spires, church belfries or church domes not containing habitable space.
   (G)   Parking. See §
152.35.
SPECIAL ZONING PROVISIONS
§ 152.30 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS REGULATING EXTERIOR LIGHTING FOR ALL ZONING
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Exterior lighting shall be designed and arranged to limit direct
illumination and glare upon or into any contiguous parcel. Reflected glare or
spill light shall not exceed five- tenths foot-candles as measured on the
property line when abutting any residential parcel and one foot-candle on any
abutting commercial or industrial parcel. Street lights installed in public
right-of-way shall be excepted from these standards.
   (B)   Mitigative measures shall be employed to limit glare and spill light
to protect neighboring parcels and to maintain traffic safety on public roads.
These measures shall include lenses, shields, louvers, prismatic control
devices and limitations on the height and type of fixtures. The city may also
limit the hours of operation of outdoor lighting if it is deemed necessary to
reduce impacts on the surrounding neighborhood.
   (C)   No flickering or flashing lights shall be permitted.
   (D)   Direct, off-site views of the light source shall not be permitted
except for globe and/or ornamental light fixtures approved in conjunction with
a site and building plan. Globe and ornamental fixtures shall only be approved
when the developer can demonstrate that off- site impacts stemming from direct
views of the bulb are mitigated by the fixture design and/or location.
   (E)   The City may require submission of a light distribution plan if deemed
necessary to ensure compliance with the intent of this chapter.
§ 152.31 LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All open areas of a lot which are not used or improved for required
parking areas, drives or storage shall be landscaped with a combination of
overstory trees, understory trees, shrubs, flowers and ground cover materials.
   (B)   All new landscape trees and shrubs must meet the American Standard for
Nursery Stock and American National Standard relating to planting guidelines,
quality of stock and appropriate sizing of the root ball. Landscape trees must
be balled and burlapped or moved from the growing site by tree spade. Deciduous
trees will be not less than one and one quarter inches but not more than three
inches caliper for balled and burlapped trees, and not less than three inches
but not more than six inches caliper for spade-moved trees. Coniferous trees
will not be less than six feet in height but no more than eight feet for balled
and burlapped trees, and not less than eight feet in height but not more than
14 feet for spade-moved coniferous trees. The City may allow larger balled and
burlapped or spade moved trees if these trees are accompanied with a three year
guarantee.
   (C)   All lot areas not covered by buildings, sidewalks, parking lots,
driveways, patios or similar hard surface materials shall be covered with sod
or an equivalent ground cover approved by the City. This requirement shall not
apply to site areas retained in a natural state.
§ 152.35 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the off-street parking regulations is to
alleviate or prevent congestion of the public right-of-way and to promote the
safety and general welfare of the public, by establishing minimum requirements
for off-street parking of motor vehicles in accordance with the utilization of
various parcels of land and structures. No building shall be hereafter erected,
substantially altered, or its use changed unless off-street parking spaces have
been provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Required Off-Street Parking. The number of off-street parking spaces
provided shall be at least the minimum number provided for the following uses:
      (1)   One and two-family dwellings: Two spaces per unit.
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings: Two spaces per unit.
      (3)   Theatres, auditoriums, churches and other similar places of
assembly: One space per every four seats.
      (4)   Restaurants, bars and the like: One space for every three seats.
      (5)   Retail stores: One space per every 500 square feet of retail floor
space.
      (6)   Motels, hotels: One space per sleeping room or unit.
      (7)   Service commercial shops, such as auto repair shops, furniture
repair shops, appliance repair shops and the like: One space per every 500
square feet of gross floor space.
      (8)   Industrial establishments: One space per every two persons of
maximum employment during any work period.
      (9)   Wholesale, warehouses: One space per every employee during any work
period.
      (10)   Uses not mentioned: For any use not specifically mentioned in the
schedule of off-street parking requirements, the number of spaces required
shall be that required for that use in the schedule which is determined by the
City Council to be most similar.
   (C)   Special Off-Street Parking Requirements.
      (1)   Offices outside C-1 District. Adequate off-street parking area
shall be provided for all employees so as to avoid routine usage of the public
street for parking. However, parking will be allowed on the side of the public
street adjacent to the office’s property for routine employee parking.
      (2)   Industrial establishments within C-1, C-2 and I Districts. Adequate
off-street parking areas shall be required for all employees so as to avoid
routine usage of a public street for parking, except during the climatic
seasons that result in a deterioration of the available parking area
serviceability to a point that reasonable judgment dictates temporary disuse.
Parking will be allowed on the side of the public street adjacent to the
establishment’s property for routine employee parking.
      (3)   Off-street loading spaces. No building shall be hereafter erected,
substantially altered, or its use changed unless loading spaces have been
provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. One off-street
loading space shall be provided and maintained on the same lot for each
commercial and industrial use requiring regular delivery of goods.
      (4)   Improvement and maintenance of off-street parking and loading
spaces. All parking and loading areas shall provide drainage of surface water
to prevent drainage of such water on the adjacent properties or walkways. The
owner of any parking or loading area shall maintain the area in good condition.
      (5)   All off-street parking must satisfy applicable state and federal
requirements including, but not limited to, the Americans with Disabilities
Act.
§ 152.36 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The following restrictions apply to accessory buildings and structures
for all residential uses:
      (1)   All accessory buildings or structures shall be located to the rear
of the principal building line and shall be located in the side yard or rear
yard.
      (2)   No accessory building or structure shall exceed the height of the
principal structure or an average grade to peak height of 17 feet, whichever is
greater.
      (3)   Any accessory building or structure that requires a building permit
under the Uniform Building Code or this Code shall be subject to the building
permit application process.
      (4)   A detached garage shall be no larger than 1,500 square feet and
shall have exterior finish and roofing materials that are aesthetically
compatible with the principal structure on the lot.
      (5)   Accessory buildings or structures shall occupy no more than 30% of
the rear yard.
      (6)   Any accessory building or structure that is located 6 feet or less
from the principal structure shall be considered an integral part of the
principal structure for purposes of the Fire Code.
      (7)   Accessory building setback requirements.
         (a)   Side yards. 10 feet.
         (b)   Rear yards. 5 feet.
         (c)   Perimeter easement. 5 feet.
         (d)   Corner lots. 25 feet from the adjacent street, but in no case
less than the setback of an adjacent lot which has its front yard on the same
street.
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 152.40 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The sign ordinance is intended to establish a comprehensive and
balanced system of sign control that accommodates the need for a well-
maintained, safe, and attractive community, and the need for effective
communications including business identification. It is the intent of this
section, to promote the health, safety, general welfare, aesthetics, and image
of the community by regulating signs that are intended to communicate to the
public, and to use signs that meet the city's goals by authorizing:
      (1)   Permanent signs that establish a high standard of aesthetics;
      (2)   Signs that are compatible with their surroundings;
      (3)   Signs that are designed, constructed, installed and maintained in a
manner that does not adversely impact public safety or unduly distract
motorists;
      (4)   Signs that are large enough to convey the intended message and to
help citizens find their way to intended destinations;
      (5)   Signs that are proportioned to the scale of, and are
architecturally compatible with, principal structures;
      (6)   Permanent signs that give preference to the on-premise owner or
occupant; and
      (7)   Temporary commercial signs and advertising displays that provide an
opportunity for grand openings and occasional sales events while restricting
signs that create continuous visual clutter and hazards at public right-of-way
intersections.
§ 152.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL SIGN - any sign that advertises or identifies a product,
business, service, entertainment, or any other matter of a commercial nature,
even though the matter may be related to a nonprofit organization.
   CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES - within residential districts, educational
institutions and facilities, religious institutions and facilities, public
buildings or facilities, public or private nursing homes, and commercial
nurseries.
   COPY AND GRAPHIC - the wording and other display messages such as logos or
symbols on a sign.
   COPY AND GRAPHIC AREA - the area in square feet of the smallest four-sided
figure which encloses the copy and graphic of a sign.
   DYNAMIC DISPLAY - any characteristics of a sign that appear to have movement
or that appear to change, caused by any method other than physically removing
and replacing the sign or its components, whether the apparent movement or
change is in the display, the sign structure itself, or any other component of
the sign. This includes a display that incorporates a technology or method
allowing the sign face to change the image without having to physically or
mechanically replace the sign face or its components. This also includes any
rotating, revolving, moving, flashing, blinking, or animated display and any
display that incorporates rotating panels, LED lights manipulated through
digital input, "digital ink" or any other method or technology that allows the
sign face to present a series of images or displays.
   FEATHER FLAG - a freestanding, temporary sign constructed of a vertical
pole, tube or post supporting one edge of a sheet of cloth, vinyl or similar
material.
   FREESTANDING SIGN - a sign which is self-supporting and affixed to a frame
structure not attached to a building.
   ILLUMINATION, INTERNAL - a light source within the sign.
   ILLUMINATION, EXTERNAL - a light source which is not internal to the sign.
   ITEMS OF INFORMATION - individual copy and graphic items situated in a
manner which presents separate messages. An item of information can only be a
name, an address, a logo, or geographic directions.
   LIMITED TENANT BUILDING - a commercial retail establishment or a group of
commercial retail establishments with the designed occupancy of three or less
tenants. It must have shared parking and a visual appearance of a contiguous
structure, which may or may not be planned, constructed or managed as a total
entity. This includes single tenant retail structures.
   MONUMENT SIGN - a sign not supported by exposed posts or poles which is
architecturally designed and located directly at grade where the base width
dimension is 50% or more of the greatest width of the sign.
   MONUMENT AREA - the area in square feet of an entire monument sign
structure, including copy and graphic area.
   MULTI-TENANT BUILDING - a building with a designed occupancy of four or more
tenants with shared parking and visual appearance as a contiguous structure,
which may or may not be planned, constructed or managed as a total entity.
   NON-COMMERCIAL SIGN - any sign that is not a commercial sign, including but
not limited to signs that convey messages concerning political, religious,
social, ideological, public service and informational topics.
   ON-PREMISE SIGN - a sign relating in it subject matter to, or which directs
attention to, a business, person, activity, commodity, service or entertainment
located on the site where the sign is installed.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN - a sign relating in its subject matter to, or that directs
attention to, a business, person, activity, commodity, service, entertainment
or any other matter that is not available, or does not take place, on the same
premises as the sign. A discontinued sign is an off-premise sign.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN - a permanent off-premise sign.
   PERMANENT SIGN - any sign other than a temporary sign.
   PORTABLE SIGN - a sign with or without copy and graphic that is designed or
intended to be moved or transported. Examples of portable signs are: A - or T -
frame signs; sandwich signs; signs designed to be transported by trailer or on
wheels; signs mounted on a vehicle for advertising purposes, when the vehicle
is parked and visible from public right-of- way, except signs identifying a
business when the vehicle is being used in the normal day-to- day operation of
that business. A sign may be a portable sign even if it has wheels removed, was
designed without wheels, or is attached temporarily or permanently to the
ground, a structure, or other sign.
   PROJECTING SIGN - a sign which extends perpendicularly beyond a wall face
more than 18-inches.
   PYLON SIGN - a sign supported by a post or posts so that the sign and
supports are finished to grade by encasing the posts in a material consistent
with the sign and where the base width dimension is a minimum of 10% up to and
including 50% of the greatest width of the sign.
   SANDWICH SIGN - a freestanding temporary sign, typically A-shaped, with two
visible sides that is placed near the main entrance to a building.
   SIGN - any writing, pictorial presentation, number, illustration or
decoration, flag, banner or other device that is used to announce, direct
attention to, identify, advertise, or otherwise make anything known. The term
"sign" shall not be deemed to include: the terms "building" or "landscaping",
or any architectural embellishment of a building not intended to communicate
information; works of art that do not convey commercial messages and that are
painted on a building wall; flags that do not convey commercial messages; or
any sign structure or device that is not visible from an adjacent street,
property line or building on adjacent property.
   TEMPORARY SIGN - a sign constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, plastic sheet,
cardboard, wallboard, plywood or other like materials and that appears to be
intended to be displayed for a limited period of time. This includes items such
as banners, pennants, beacons, sandwich or curb signs, balloons or other air or
gas filled figures.
   WALL SIGN - a single faced sign attached to or erected against an exterior
wall of a building with the face in a parallel plane to the plane of the
building wall.
§ 152.42 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Administration and enforcement of §§
152.40 through
152.44 is governed by §§
152.50 and
152.99.
§ 152.43 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit not required. The following signs do not require a permit but
must meet the regulations in this section:
      (1)   Signs required or allowed by §
152.43.
      (2)   Temporary signs in residential districts as allowed by §
152.44 J (1).
   (B)   Permit required. No person may erect or install any of the following
signs without first obtaining a permit from the Building Official or designee:
      (1)   All permanent signs permitted in §
152.44 require a sign permit, unless specifically noted otherwise. The permit
must be received prior to installation of the sign. The permit and inspection
fee for all permanent signs is specified in City Code
Chapter 34.
      (2)   All temporary signs permitted in §
152.44, require a temporary sign permit, unless specifically noted otherwise.
The permit and inspection fee for permitted signs, banners, search lights, or
inflatable advertising devices is specified in City Code
Chapter 34.
   (C)   Permit procedure.
      (1)   Application for a permit must be on a form provided by the City and
must include the following information:
         (a)   Name and address of the owner of the sign;
         (b)   Street address or location of the property on which the sign is
to be located, along with the name and address of the property owner;
         (c)   The type of sign as defined in this section;
         (d)   Site plan showing the location of the proposed sign;
         (e)   Specifications and scale drawings showing the materials, design,
dimensions, structural supports, method of attachment and electrical components
of the sign;
         (f)   Plan showing the location and size of all existing signs located
on the same premises upon city request;
         (g)   Sign permit fee as specified in City Code
Chapter 34.
      (2)   The Building Official or designee must approve or deny a sign
permit application after a complete application is submitted. A decision must
be made in writing and must be mailed or electronically delivered to the
applicant at the address or email address provided in the application. If a
permit is denied, the reason must be stated in writing.
   (D)   Permit expiration.
   A sign permit becomes null and void if the sign is not installed within 180
days after issuance of the permit, and a new application must be submitted.
§ 152.44 GENERAL AND DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Scope. The regulations in this §
152.44 apply to signs in all zoning districts.
   (B)   Prohibited Signs
      (1)   The following signs are prohibited in all districts:
         (a)   Signs not specifically authorized under this §
152.44.
         (b)   Portable signs, except for temporary traffic control devices in
temporary traffic control zones as required by the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices or portable signs specifically permitted in this §
152.44 (J).
         (c)   Signs designed to resemble official traffic control devices are
prohibited in all districts, except signs that are used to control traffic on
private property.
         (d)   Abandoned signs.
         (e)   Blank signs.
         (f)   Permanent off-premises signs.
   (C)   Permitted signs.
      (1)   The following signs are required or permitted in every zoning
district:
         (a)   An assigned street address marking its property with the street
address numerals is required, so that emergency services providers can easily
identify the address from the public street. The identification may be on the
curb or on the principal building of the property. The size and location of the
identifying numerals must be proportional to the size of the building and the
distance from the street to the building. In cases where the building is not
located within view of the public street, or where the building is located more
than 150 feet from the public street, the identifier must be located on the
mailbox or other suitable device that is visible from the street.
         (b)   Traffic control devices on private or public property must be
erected and maintained to comply with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices adopted in this state.
         (c)   Permanent and temporary signs required by law or ordinance for
regulatory/notification purposes.
         (d)   Permanent freestanding signs on properties with more than 20
parking spaces, provided the signs have a maximum sign area of seven square
feet and a maximum height of six feet.
         (e)   Temporary off-premise commercial signs are permitted in all
districts, provided the signs comply with the following:
            (i)   must be at least five feet from the edge of a public street
and must not obstruct driver visibility at intersections;
            (ii)   are limited to one per parcel of property for the same
topic, location, event, or matter;
            (iii)   may only be displayed between 6:00 a.m. on a Thursday and
6:00 p.m. on the following Sunday; and
            (iv)   must be no larger than three square feet in area and no
higher than six feet above the ground to which it is attached.
         (f)   In all districts, any sign authorized in this chapter is allowed
to contain noncommercial copy in lieu of any other copy. For new signs posted
with a noncommercial message, the sign fee is waived until such time as the
sign is converted to contain a commercial message.
   (D)   Location requirements.
      (1)   Signs may not be located on property without the permission of the
property owner.
      (2)   Unless specifically noted otherwise, all signs must maintain a 10-
foot setback from all lot lines. The City may require a greater or lesser
setback because of public safety reasons which may include the following
conditions: vehicle sight distance, distance from intersection, designation of
adjacent right-of-way.
      (3)   Signs may not be mounted on a roof surface and may not project
above the roof line of a structure if either attached to the structure or
cantilevered over the structure.
      (4)   Signs may not be attached to trees or utility poles.
      (5)   Signs may not be located within public right-of-way except for
official traffic control devices.
      (6)   Signs may not be attached to fences.
      (7)   Signs may not be located so as to obstruct the vision of
pedestrians, cyclists, or motorists traveling on or entering public streets in
a manner that presents a hazard to public safety.
      (8)   Signs may not be located so as to obstruct any window, door, fire
escape, stairway or opening intended to provide light, air, ingress or egress
for any structure.
   (E)   Changeable Messages and Font size.
   A message that is not permanently attached to the sign face but that is not
a dynamic display may occupy no more than 50 percent of the actual copy and
graphic area. The remainder of the sign must not have the capability to change
messages even if not used. Every line of copy and graphics in a sign must be at
least four inches in height.
   (F)   Sign Illumination.
      (1)   All illuminated signs must meet the following standards:
         (a)   External illumination on signs must be directed so that the
illumination does not interfere with safe traffic operations;
         (b)   Illuminated signs must not be directly oriented to a residential
district;
         (c)   No sign may be brighter than is necessary for clear and adequate
visibility.
         (d)   No sign may be of such intensity or brilliance as to impair the
vision of a motor vehicle driver with average eyesight or to otherwise
interfere with the driver's operation of a motor vehicle.
         (e)   No sign may be of such intensity or brilliance that it
interferes with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, device or
signal.
      (2)   The person owning or controlling the sign must adjust the sign to
meet the brightness standards in accordance with the City's instructions. The
adjustment must be made immediately upon notice of non-compliance from the
City.
      (3)   All signs installed after January 1, 2023 that will have
illumination by a means other than natural light must be equipped with a
mechanism that automatically adjusts the brightness in response to ambient
conditions. These signs must also be equipped with a means to immediately turn
off the display or lighting if it malfunctions, and the sign owner or operator
must immediately turn off the sign or lighting when notified by the City that
it is not complying with the standards in this section.
   (G)   Sign Construction and Maintenance.
      (2)   All signs must conform to the following standards.
         (a)   Construction specifications. All permanent signs must be
constructed in accordance with the following:
            (i)   the Minnesota State building code;
            (ii)   all electric signs must be approved and labeled as
conforming to the standards of the Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., the United
States bureau of standards or other similar institutions of recognized
standing. All illuminating elements must be kept in satisfactory working
condition or immediately repaired or replaced. Signs that are partly
illuminated must meet all electrical requirements for the portion that is
illuminated;
            (iii)   all permanent freestanding signs must have self-supporting
structures erected on and permanently attached to concrete foundations;
            (iv)   for wall signs, the wall must be designed for and have
sufficient strength to support the sign;
            (v)   signs may not be painted on the wall of a building; and
            (vi)   Unless otherwise specified in this section, the maximum
angle permitted between faces of a double face freestanding sign is 45 degrees.
         (b)   Sign maintenance and repair. All signs must be maintained in a
safe, presentable and good structural condition at all times, including the
replacement of defective parts, cleaning and other items required for
maintenance of the sign. Vegetation around, in front of, behind, and underneath
the base of ground signs for distance of ten feet must be neatly trimmed and
free of weeds. Rubbish or debris under or near the sign that would constitute a
fire or health hazard must be removed.
   (H)   Removal of Abandoned Signs, Signs in Disrepair and Signs Located in
Public Right-of-Way.
      (1)   Abandoned signs and signs in disrepair. An abandoned sign or sign
in disrepair is prohibited and shall be removed by the owner of the premises
within 30 days after notification. If compliance with the provisions of this
section is not achieved within 30 days, the City may remove the sign as a
public nuisance by following the procedure as specified in §
92.23 of the City Code. If an abandoned sign remains in good condition and
without holes or other evidence of disrepair or damage, the sign shall not be
considered as abandoned for a period of one year.
      (2)   Signs on public property or within public right-of-way: The City
may at any time and without notice may impound signs that have been installed
on public property or within public right-of-way or easement. The sign owner
may retrieve the signs according to the following:
         (a)   a fee must be paid to the city as established in City Code
Chapter 34. For each subsequent impoundment in a calendar year, the specified
fee shall be doubled;
         (b)   the sign may be retrieved from a designated impound area during
routine business hours and within 15 days from the date of impounding. After 15
days, the City will dispose of the sign; and
         (c)   the City may not be held liable for any damage to impounded
signs.
   (I)   Nonconforming Signs.
   Any sign that complied with all applicable laws and ordinances at that time
that it was erected but that has been or is made nonconforming due to a
subsequently enacted amendment of this City code is governed by §
152.57.
   (J)   District Regulations
      (1)   Residential District.
      Within a residential zoning district, signs are permitted as provided in
this subsection. Except as expressly permitted in this subsection, commercial
signs are not allowed:
         (a)   Permanent signs, must comply with Table 152.1. In addition:
            (i)   One wall sign is permitted per building.
            (ii)   One freestanding sign is permitted per development. Sign may
be single or double-faced. The sign must be perpetually maintained by a
homeowners association or responsible property owner.
            (iii)   Internal illumination is not allowed if a sign faces
residential properties. External illumination may not include exposed light
sources.
Table 152.1 Permanent Signs in Residential District
 
Property Type Max. Area Max. Copy & Graphic Max. Height Illumination Type Other
                        Area
Table 152.1 Permanent Signs in Residential District
 
Property Type Max. Area    Max. Copy &  Max. Height Illumination  Other
                           Graphic Area             Type
Permanent Wall Signs
Any           2 sq. ft.    2 sq. ft.    1 ft.       External only
Residential                                                    
use***
              50 sq. ft.   50 sq. ft.
              or 10% of    or 10% of
             the wall in  the wall in              
Conditionally which the    which the                             
permitted     sign is      sign is      2 ft.       Internal or
principal use located,     located,                 External
              whichever is whichever is
              less         less
Permanent Freestanding Signs
                                                                  Must be
                                                                located at
             75 sq. ft.   30 sq. ft.                           primary
Residential** per entrance per entrance 6 ft.       External      entrance(s),
                                                             two signs
                                                                  permitted per
                                                                  development
Conditionally                                     
Permitted     75 sq. ft.   30 sq. ft.   8 ft.       Internal or    
Use****                                          External
                                                    
Public                                              Internal or   Hours of
Building and  32 sq. ft.   32 sq. ft.   8 ft.       External      illumination
Park                                                          6 am to 10 pm
                                                                  only
Athletic
Field, with   410 sq. ft.  410 sq. ft.
structured    per sign     per sign                 
seating for   face         face         35 ft.      Internal only  
2000 or fewer                                     
people
 
** Allowed only for single-family developments of at least 6 lots and two-
family development with at least 12 dwelling units.
*** Sign permit not required.
**** Includes educational, religious, institutional, or nursing home uses.
 
 
         (b)   Temporary non-commercial signs are limited to three per
residence and:
            (i)   Must not be illuminated;
            (ii)   May be a maximum of 6 square feet per sign;
            (iii)   Must not be more than 3 feet high; and
            (iv)   Must be located at least 5 feet from the edge of a public
street and must not obstruct driver visibility at intersections and must be
placed with the consent of the property owner.
         (c)   Temporary commercial signs must comply with Table 152.2.
Temporary signs may not be illuminated.
Table 152.2 Temporary Commercial Signs in Residential District
 
Property Type Sign Type Max. Number of Max. Area Max. Height Display Duration
                        Signs
Table 152.2 Temporary Commercial Signs in Residential District
 
Property Type Sign Type    Max. Number of Max. Area  Max. Height Display
                           Signs                                 Duration
Development Properties
                                                                 Must be
                                                                 removed When
Residential*/              1 per                                 building
**            Freestanding development    32 sq. ft. 8 ft.       permits have
                                                                 been issued
                                                                 for 90% of
                                                                 lots.
For Sale or Lease Properties
                                                                 Must be
                                                                 removed 7 days
Residential** Freestanding 1 per property 6 sq. ft.  6 ft.       after a
                                                                 property is no
                                                                 longer for
                                                                 sale or lease
General Commercial Signage
                                                                 Two occasions
                                                                 per calendar
Conditionally                                                    year for a
Permitted     Banner       1 per property 30 sq. ft. N/A         maximum of 10
Principal Use                                                    day display
                                                                 for each
                                                                 occasion
* Allowed for low-density developments with at least four lots under
development.
** Sign permit not required.
 
      (2)   Commercial Business and Industrial Sign Regulations
         Within the C-1, C-2 and I districts, the following signs are
permitted:
         (a)   Permanent signs.
            (i)   Freestanding signs. Signs must comply with requirements of
Table 152.3. In addition,
               a)   One freestanding sign is allowed per development, except
that a second sign is allowed for properties with drive-thru windows.
               b)   Signs may be single or double-faced.
               c)   Signs may be internally or externally illuminated, except
internal illumination is not allowed if a sign faces residential properties.
External illumination may not include exposed light sources.
Table 152.3 Permanent Freestanding Signs in the Commercial Business and
Industrial Districts
 Pylon Sign Monument Sign
Table 152.3 Permanent Freestanding Signs in the Commercial Business and
Industrial Districts
               Pylon Sign                 Monument Sign
Principal
Structure      Max. Height Max. Sign Size Max. Height Max. Copy & Max. Monument
(gross square                                         Graphic     Area
feet)
Greater than   30 ft.      200 sq. ft.    21 ft.      100 sq. ft. 150 sq. ft.
400,000                                                        
 
100,000 -      24 ft.      100 sq. ft.    21 ft.      100 sq. ft. 150 sq. ft.
400,000*                                                       
 
20,000 -       18 ft.      80 sq. ft.     18 ft.      80 sq. ft.  120 sq. ft.
100,000                                                        
 
Less than      15 ft.      60 sq. ft.     15 ft.      60 sq. ft.  90 sq. ft.
20,000                                                         
 
Building with  30 ft.      200 sq. ft.    21 ft.      100 sq. ft. 150 sq. ft.
multiple                                                       
screen theater
Second Sign                                                    
for properties 8 ft.       50 sq. ft.     8 ft.       50 sq. ft.  50 sq. ft.
with drive-                                                    
thru
* For multi-tenant building or limited tenant building with more than 100,000
gross sq. ft. and with 2 or more access points, one monument sign allowed at
primary access and second monument allowed at second access; height and graphic
limits for second monument are 50% of those in outlined in this table.
 
            (ii)   Permanent Wall signs.
               a)   One permanent wall sign is permitted per exterior wall
face.
               b)   Signs must be comprised of individually dimensioned
letters, unless all wall signs are incorporated into the architecture of
structure and of similar design.
               c)   Signs may be internally illuminated or backlit, except
illumination is not allowed if a sign faces residential properties.
               d)   Signs may be located no closer than 2 feet from any lease
line.
               e)   Each tenant is permitted one wall sign per tenant exterior
wall face, but no more than two total signs. For example, a tenant that
occupies a corner or endcap space is allowed two wall signs, whereas a tenant
that occupies an interior space is allowed one wall sign. Signage size is
regulated under Table 152.4.
 
Table 152.4 Wall Signs, Multi-tenant Building
                         Max. Height                Max. Copy & Graphic Area
                         36 inches for graphic
Horizontal-mounted signs  
                         26 inches for copy
                          
                         Must not project above the Defined by maximum allowed
                         roofline of building and   height and lease lines*
Projecting sign          provide for no less than 8
                         feet of clearance between
                         the lowest portion of the
                         sign and the grade below.
*Signs may not project out from the face of the building by more than 48
inches.
 
               f)   Temporary Signs. On-premise signs must comply with Table
152.5. Signs may not be illuminated.
Table 152.5 Temporary On-Premise Signs in C-1, C-2 and Industrial Districts
Property Type Sign Type Max. Number of Max. Area Max. Height Display Duration
                        Signs
Table 152.5 Temporary On-Premise Signs in C-1, C-2 and Industrial Districts
Property Type Sign Type     Max. Number  Max. Area    Max. Height Display
                            of Signs                              Duration
                                                                 Must be
Vacant                     1 if                                removed 7
Properties,   Freestanding  property is  32 sq. ft.   12 ft.      days after
During                     3 acres or                          issuance of a
Construction*               less                                  certificate
                                                                  of occupancy
Improved                    2 signs if                            Only while
Properties,                property is                           property is
             Freestanding  over 3 acres                        for sale or
For Sale or   or Wall       in size                               lease space
Lease*                                                          is available
                                                                   
                                                                  Max. 30 day
                                                             period to
                                                                  coincide with
                                                                  grand opening
                                                                  Max. 2
                                                                  occasions per
              Banners       1 sign per   30 sq. ft.   N/A         calendar
                          tenant                              years with
                                                                 each occasion
                                                                  not to exceed
                                                                  10 days
                                                                  Allowed
                                                                  during
                                                              business
              Sandwich      1 per tenant 12 sq. ft.   4           hours, but
              Signs*/**/***                                    must be
General                                                          removed at
Temporary                                                         closing
Signs                                                              
                                                                 Max. 2
                                                                occasions per
              Search Light  1 per                               calendar year
              or            development  N/A          N/A         with each
              Inflatable***                                    occasion not
                                                                 to exceed 3
                                                                  days
                                        6 sq. ft.
              Noncommercial             per sign,                
             banner or     3 per                    3 ft.       N/A
              freestanding  property     18 sq. ft.               
              sign*/****                aggregate
                                         per property
*Sign permit not required.
** Sign must be located directly in front the tenant space the sign is
associated with and must not reduce sidewalk area to less than 4 ft. in width.
*** Sign must be located on the ground.
**** Signs must be located at least five feet from the edge of a public street,
must not obstruct driver visibility at intersections and must be placed with
the consent of the property owner.
 
§ 152.45 FENCES, WALLS OR SCREENING.
   (A)   The requirements of this subchapter shall apply to all new or
replacement fences, walls, or shrubbery erected or installed from and after the
effective date of this subchapter, but shall not apply to the mere repair of
existing fences.
      (1)   General Requirements.
         (a)   All fences of more than six feet in height shall require a
permit.
         (b)   No fence shall contain barbed wire.
         (c)   No fence shall be charged with electric current, or constructed
with barbed wire, except within an agricultural district.
         (d)   No fence, wall or other obstruction to vision above a height of
30 inches from the established street grades shall be permitted within the
triangular area formed at the intersection of any street right-of- way lines by
a straight line drawn between the right- of-way lines at a distance along each
line of 25 feet from their point of intersection.
         (e)   Fences must be maintained so as not to endanger life or property
and any fence which, through lack of repair, type of construction or otherwise,
that imperils health, life or property or the well-being of a neighborhood
shall be deemed a nuisance.
         (f)   Every fence or wall shall be maintained in a good and safe
condition at all times. Every damaged or missing element of any fence or wall
shall be prepared or replaced immediately.
         (g)   All fences must be located on the private property of the
person, firm or corporation constructing the fence.
         (h)   Security or screening fences are permitted on the property lines
in all districts except residential districts but shall not exceed ten feet in
height.
         (i)   All fences must comply with all other requirements of law or
this code as it applies to fence installation and materials.
   (B)   Regulations Applicable to R-1 and Rural Residential and Agricultural
Districts.
      (1)   Approved material. All fences in residential districts shall be
constructed of stone, brick, finished wood, chained link or vinyl. The finished
side of the fence, or that side of the fence without exposed support or posts,
shall face the neighboring property or streets.
      (2)   Side and rear yard requirements. No fence or wall located in a side
or a rear yard in residential districts shall be of height exceeding six feet,
measured from its top edge to the ground at any point.
      (3)   Front yards. Fences or walls shall not exceed the height of four
feet in the front yard and shall be at least 75% open on its surface to allow
for the passage of light and air.
      (4)   Setbacks. Fences requiring maintenance shall be setback two feet
from the property line, and in no event shall any fence be located less than
six inches from a property line. No fence, wall, hedge or other screening
device shall be permitted to encroach on any public right-of- way.
§ 152.50 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Consistency with State Law. Notwithstanding anything in this chapter
to the contrary, the provisions of Minn. Stat. § 15.99, and the following
sections shall govern the process for making decisions under this chapter. To
the extent to which these sections conflict with the provisions of Minn. Stat.
§ 15.99, the provisions of that statute shall apply.
   (B)   Applications. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
chapter, all applications for any site plan, conditional use permit, interim
use permit, land use permit, variance, comprehensive plan amendment, zoning
amendment, or for any other city approval required by this chapter, or to amend
this chapter, shall be made in writing on a form provided by the city, to the
City Clerk or other person appointed by the City Council to administer this
chapter. The City Clerk is authorized to reject in writing any incomplete
application within 15 business days of receipt if the application is
incomplete, stating the reasons for its rejection, including what information
is missing. This rejection shall be sent by first-class mail to the applicant.
Every application shall contain the legal description of the property and a
statement of the specific permit or action being sought.
   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the city from requesting
additional information from the applicant upon which to base a decision.
   (C)   Public Notice and Hearings. As required by Minn. Stat. § 462.357 and
Minn. Stat. § 462.3595 a public hearing shall be held by the City Council or
the Planning Commission before any conditional use permit, variance, or zoning
amendment may be granted. A notice of the time, place and purpose of the
hearing shall be published in the official newspaper of the city at least ten
days prior to the day of the hearing. In the case of an amendment to the zoning
code which involves changes in district boundaries affecting an area of five
acres or less, and in the case of an application for a conditional use permit
or a variance, a similar notice shall be mailed at least ten days before the
day of the hearing to each owner of affected property and property situated
wholly or partly within 350 feet of the property to which the zoning code
amendment, conditional use or variance relates. The applicant shall provide a
list of the owners of affected property and property situated wholly or partly
within 350 feet of the property to which the hearing relates. The Clerk or
other person appointed by the City Council to administer this chapter may use
any appropriate records to determine the names and addresses of owners. A copy
of the notice and a list of the owners and addresses to which the notice was
sent shall be attested to by the Clerk or other person appointed by the City
Council to administer this chapter and shall be made a part of the records of
the proceedings. The failure to give mailed notice to individual property
owners, or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided
a bona fide attempt to comply with the mailed notice requirements has been
made.
§ 152.51 FINAL ACTIONS.
   As required by Minn. Stat. § 15.99, all approvals and denials of
applications for a zoning amendment, site plan, conditional use permit, land
use permit, variance or any other application which requires a city approval
under this chapter must be made within the timeline and following the process
of Minn. Stat. § 15.99. Failure to follow the requirements of the statute may
result in automatic approval of applications.
§ 152.52 NOTICE OF DECISION.
   As required by Minn. Stat. § 15.99, notice of approvals and denials of
applications for a zoning amendment, site plan, conditional use permit, land
use permit, variance or any other application which requires a city approval
under this chapter must be provided within the timeline and following the
process of Minn. Stat. § 15.99. Failure to follow the requirements of the
statute may result in automatic approval of applications.
§ 152.53 LAND USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No structure or fence shall be constructed until a land use permit has been
obtained from the City Clerk or other person appointed by the City Council to
administer this chapter. The application shall contain a plan showing the
location on the structure or fence on the property that demonstrates that all
requirements of this code will be met. The application shall also contain the
plans for the structure to be built that demonstrates that the structure will
meet all of the standards established by this zoning code. If an application
requires a zoning application, no land use permit shall be issued by the Clerk
or other person appointed by the City Council to administer this chapter until
such application been acted upon by the City Council. A decision by the Clerk
or other person appointed by the City Council to administer this chapter not to
issue a land use permit may be appealed to the Board of Appeals and Adjustments
as provided for in § 152.59 §
152.59.
§ 152.54 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 462.3595, conditional uses may be approved
by the City Council by a showing by the applicant that the standards and
criteria stated in this zoning code, and any conditions imposed by the City
Council, will be satisfied. A public hearing on the granting of a conditional
use permit shall be held in the manner provided in §
152.50. A conditional use permit shall remain in effect as long as the
conditions agreed upon are observed, but the Council may enact or amend the
zoning code to change the status of conditional uses. A conditional use permit
shall not become effective until a certified copy is filed by the applicant
with the County Recorder, which shall include the legal description of the
property included.
   (B)   Performance Standards for Conditional Use Permits in all Zoning
Districts.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the intent of the City in establishing general and
specific criteria for conditional uses that such uses be subject to careful
evaluation to ensure that their location, size and design are consistent with
the standards, purposes and procedures of this chapter and the comprehensive
plan, if one exists. The Planning Commission, if one exists, may recommend and
the City Council may impose conditions on such uses in order to effect the
purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   General standards. No conditional use permit shall be granted
unless the City Council determines that all of the following standards will be
met:
         (a)   The use is consistent with the intent of this chapter;
         (b)   The use is consistent with the goals, policies and objectives of
the comprehensive plan, if one exists;
         (c)   The use does not have an undue adverse impact on governmental
facilities, utilities, services or existing or proposed improvements; and
         (d)   The use does not have an undue adverse impact on the public
health, safety or welfare.
§ 152.55 INTERIM USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 462.3597, and in order to give flexibility
to the district use regulations of this chapter, which is necessary to achieve
the objectives of the comprehensive plan, interim uses are allowed in certain
districts subject to the granting of an interim use permit by the City Council.
Because of their temporary characteristics, interim uses require special
consideration so they may be located properly with respect to the objectives of
the comprehensive plan and with respect to their effects on surrounding
properties. In order to achieve these purposes, the City Council is empowered
to grant and to deny applications for interim use permits and to impose
reasonable conditions upon the granting of these permits. Uses authorized under
this section shall be considered a conforming use, but only in accordance with
the conditions set forth in the interim use permit.
   (B)   The City Council may grant an interim use permit for the interim use
of the property upon a showing by the applicant that the standards and criteria
stated in this zoning code and any conditions imposed by the City Council, will
be satisfied, and that the applicant agrees to the conditions imposed upon the
interim use. The interim use permit shall include a date or event that will
terminate the permit, and the granting of the interim use shall not impose
additional costs on the public if it is necessary for the public to take the
property in the future. A public hearing on the granting of an interim use
permit shall be held in the manner provided in §
152.50. An interim use permit shall remain in effect as long as the conditions
agreed upon are observed, but the Council may enact or amend the zoning code to
change the status of conditional uses. An interim use permit shall not become
effective until a certified copy is filed by the applicant with the County
Recorder, which shall include the legal description of the property included.
§ 152.56 VARIANCES.
   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 462.357, Subd. 6, the City Council, acting as a
Board of Appeals and Adjustments, may issue variances from the provisions of
this zoning code. A variance is a modification or variation of the provisions
of this zoning code as applied to a specific piece of property. A variance from
the literal provisions of this zoning code may be granted by the Board of
Appeals and Adjustments only when the variance is in harmony with the general
purposes and intent of the zoning code and the variance is consistent with the
comprehensive plan, if the city has adopted one. A variance may be granted when
the applicant for the variance establishes that there are practical
difficulties in complying with the zoning ordinance. Practical Difficulties as
used in connection with granting a variance, means the property owner proposes
to use the property in a reasonable manner not permitted by the zoning code;
the plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the property not
created by the landowner; and the variance, if granted, will not alter the
essential character of the locality. Economic considerations alone do not
constitute practical difficulties. Practical difficulties include, but are not
limited to, inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
   Variances shall be granted for earth sheltered construction as defined in
Minn. Stat. § 216C.06, Subd. 14, when in harmony with this zoning code. The
Board of Appeals and Adjustments may not permit as a variance any use that is
not allowed under this zoning code for property in the zone where the affected
person’s land is located. The Board of Appeals and Adjustments may permit as a
variance the temporary use of a one-family dwelling as a two-family dwelling.
The Board of Appeals and Adjustments may impose conditions in the granting of
variances to ensure compliance and to protect adjacent properties. A condition
must be directly related to and must bear rough proportionality to the impact
created by the variance. The variance shall not become effective until a
certified copy is filed by the applicant with the County Recorder, which shall
include the legal description of the property included.
§ 152.57 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   As required by Minn. Stat. § 462.357, any nonconformity, including the
lawful use or occupation of land or premises existing at the time of the
adoption of these zoning regulations, may be continued, including through
repair, replacement, restoration, maintenance or improvement, but not including
expansion, unless the nonconformity or occupancy is discontinued for a period
of more than one year, or any nonconforming use is destroyed by fire or other
peril to the extent of greater than 50% of its market value, and no building
permit has been applied for within 180 days of when the property is damaged. In
this case, the City Council may impose reasonable conditions upon a building
permit in order to mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent property. A
subsequent use or occupancy of the land or premises shall be a conforming use
or occupancy.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A), the city may regulate the repair,
replacement, maintenance, improvement, or expansion of nonconforming uses and
structures in floodplain areas to the extent necessary to maintain eligibility
in the National Flood Insurance Program and not increase flood damage potential
or increase the degree of obstruction of flood flows in the floodway.
   (C)   Nonconforming shoreland lots of record are subject to the provisions
of Minn. Stat. § 462.357.
§ 152.58 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The clerk, or other person appointed by the City Council, may inspect
any property that is the subject of any application under this chapter, with
either the permission of the owner, resident or other person in control of the
property.
   (B)   An amendment to this zoning code may be initiated by the City Council
or by petition of affected property owners. The requirements for public notice
and hearing contained in §
152.50 shall be followed. The zoning code may be amended by a majority vote of
all of the members of the City Council. The adoption of an amendment which
changes all or part of the existing classification of a zoning district from
residential to either commercial or industrial requires a two-thirds majority
vote of all members of the City Council.
§ 152.59 BOARD OF APPEALS AND ADJUSTMENTS; APPEALS.
   The City Council shall be the Board of Appeals and Adjustments for this
City, and have the powers granted under Minn. Stat. §§ 462.357, Subd. 6 and
462.359, Subd. 4. Appeals to the City Council acting as the Board of Appeals
and Adjustments may be taken by any affected person where it is alleged that
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by
an administrative officer of the city in the enforcement of the zoning code. No
mailed or published notice of the hearing on the appeal is required. When the
City Council is acting as the Planning Commission, all appeals shall be made to
the district court in the First Judicial District.
§ 152.60 RECORD OF DECISIONS.
   The Council may provide that a record be made of its proceedings concerning
its actions on any application for a permit, zoning ordinance amendment, or
appeal. This record may include the minutes of the meeting, the findings of the
Council and the action taken.
§ 152.61 LAPSE.
   Approval of a zoning application shall lapse and become null and void one
year following the date on which the approval was granted, unless prior to the
expiration of the one year the work or improvement described in the approval is
commenced and diligently pursued on the subject site. The City Council may
grant an extension for good cause.
§ 152.99 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Council may direct the Clerk or other person appointed by the
City Council to administer this chapter to send a notice of any violation. When
so directed, a notice of a violation shall be mailed by the Clerk or other
person appointed by the City Council to administer this chapter to any person
who, in the opinion of the Clerk or other person appointed by the City Council
to administer this chapter, is in violation of the provisions of the zoning
code. The notice shall state the nature of the violation and the penalty for
the violation. A person who is issued a notice of violation may appeal the
issuance to the City Council under the provisions of §
152.59.
   (B)   Each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
   (C)   The city may also enforce any provision of this zoning code by
mandamus, injunction, or any other appropriate remedy in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   A person who knowingly makes or submits a false statement or document
in connection with an application or procedure required by this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided by §
10.99.
   (E)   A person who violates, fails to comply with or assists, directs or
permits the violation of a performance standards required by §
152.30 must reimburse the city or its agent for the actual costs of the tests,
measurements or other procedures necessary to demonstrate that violation.
   (F)   A violation of this chapter or a condition imposed under this chapter
is a public nuisance. The public nuisance may be abated in accordance with
Chapter 92.
   (G)   No section or part of this chapter designating the duties of an
official, employee or appointee of the city may be construed to make that
official, employee or appointee liable for the penalty provided by the city
ordinances for violation of this chapter.
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   Minn. Stat. §§ 462.358 and 505.03 convey responsibilities and authority to
cities for the establishment of platting and subdivision regulations. The
purpose of this Chapter is to establish platting procedures and subdivision
regulations that:
   (A)   Provide for the orderly, efficient, and safe development of land,
urban services and facilities;
   (B)   Promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
community by establishing physical standards, design requirements, and
procedures for the platting and subdivision of land; and
   (C)   Establish procedures that permit flexibility in land development in
conformity with City plans, ordinances and regulations.
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Words in the present tense include the past and future tenses; the singular
includes the plural; the plural includes the singular; the word “shall” is
mandatory; the word “may” is permissive. In the event of conflicting provisions
in the text of these regulations, the more restrictive shall apply. For the
purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply, unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY: Any dedicated public right of way providing a minor secondary means
of access to the side or rear of two or more properties.
   BLOCKS: The enclosed area within the perimeter of roads, property lines or
boundaries of a subdivision.
   BOULEVARD: The portion of the public street right of way between the back
curb line and the property line for uses such as snow storage, sidewalk,
utilities, street light and traffic or other signage and potential widening of
roadways.
   BUILDABLE LAND: The gross acreage of all property in the proposed plat or
subdivision excluding public waters, State or County rights-of-way, and
wetlands designated by Federal or State agencies and classified by the Wetland
Conservation Act.
   CITY: The City of Randolph.
   COLLECTOR STREET: A street which carries traffic from local streets to minor
arterials or from collector street to collector street, including the principal
entrance streets of a residential development for circulation within such a
development. Direct access may be limited or restricted to a collector street.
“Collector streets” are identified on the City’s Comprehensive Plan.
   COMMUNITY: See definition of City.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A Comprehensive Plan prepared and adopted by the
community, including a compilation of policy statements, goals, text and maps
indicating the general locations recommended for the various functional classes
of land use, transportation network, utility infrastructures, places and
structures and for the general physical development of the community, including
any unit or part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to such plan
or parts thereof.
   CORNER LOT: A lot bordered on at least two adjacent sides by streets or
street rights of way.
   COUNTY: Dakota County, Minnesota.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with only one outlet and having a vehicular
turnaround.
   DEVELOPMENT: The building of structures and the installation of site
improvements.
   DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOTS: Lots which have a front line abutting on one street
and a back or rear line abutting on another street.
   EASEMENT: A grant by an owner of land for a specific use by persons other
than the owner.
   ENGINEER OR CITY ENGINEER: The registered engineer employed by the
community, unless otherwise stated.
   GOVERNING BODY: The City Council of the City of Randolph.
   LAND USE: Categories of how land is occupied or utilized either through the
efforts of people or in a natural setting. Land uses are generally referenced
in broad categories such as residential, commercial or industrial, but can be
reduced to specific categories i.e., single-family vs. townhouses or
apartments.
   LAND USES (INCOMPATIBLE): Characteristics of uses of land that may not be
consistent or harmonious with one another due to such items as height, bulk,
noxious odors, noise, unsightliness, traffic generation, exterior storage or
other nuisances inherent to one land use but not to another.
   LETTER OF CREDIT OR LOC: An irrevocable letter of credit issued on behalf of
a subdivider as a means of ensuring financial security for completing certain
public or private improvements.
   LOCAL STREET: A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
abutting properties and for local needs of a neighborhood.
   LOT: A parcel or portion of land in a subdivision or plat of land, separated
from other parcels or portions by description, as on a subdivision or record of
survey map, for the purpose of sale or lease or separate use thereof. Public
right of way and land under the normal high water mark will not be included in
computing the required minimum size of any parcel in the City.
   MINOR ARTERIAL STREETS: Streets designated on the Comprehensive Plan and
used primarily by faster moving traffic at heavy volumes as traffic arteries
for vehicular movement between and among neighborhoods and other large areas.
   OWNER: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest
in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to
subdivide such land under these regulations.
   PLANNING COMMISSION: The Planning Commission of the City.
   PLAT: A map or drawing which graphically delineates the boundaries of land
parcels for the purposes of identification and record of title. The “plat” is a
recorded legal document and must conform to all State laws.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT: The map or drawing showing the layout of a proposed
subdivision which will be legally described by lot and block descriptions, with
required supporting data.
   PROTECTIVE OR RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS: Contracts entered into between private
parties, constituting a restriction on the use of private property within a
subdivision for the mutual benefit of the property owners, to provide
protection against undesirable aspects of development which may tend to impair
the stability of values.
   RIGHT OF WAY: Land covered by a public road or dedicated for public use or
for certain private use.
   STREET (PRIVATE): A street, serving as vehicular access to two or more
parcels of land, which is not dedicated to the public but is owned by one or
more private parties.
   STREET (PUBLIC): A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as street,
collector highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place, drive, court or otherwise which is dedicated to the public.
   STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right
of way of a street measured from the face of curb to the face of curb.
   SUBDIVIDER: The owner, agent or person having control of a subdivision, as
the term is used in this Title.
   SUBDIVISION: The division of an area, parcel or tract of land into two or
more parcels, tract lots, or long-term leasehold interests where the creation
of the leasehold interest necessitates the creation of streets, roads or
alleys, for residential, commercial, industrial, or other use or any
combination thereof, except those divisions when a new street is being created
by a governmental agency which results in a division of a parcel of land. The
term includes resubdivision and when appropriate to the context, shall relate
to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided or for adjustments in
boundary lines except those separations:
   (A)   Where all the resulting parcels, tracts, lots or interests will be 20
acres or larger in size and 500 feet in width for residential uses and five
acres or larger in size for commercial and industrial uses.
   (B)   Creating cemetery lots.
   (C)   Resulting from court orders.
   SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered under State laws.
   THOROUGHFARE: A street primarily designed to carry higher volumes of
vehicular traffic than a collector street and providing for vehicular movement
between and among larger areas, designated in the Comprehensive Plan as “minor
arterials” or “arterials”.
   ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning ordinance or resolution controlling the use of
land as adopted by the City.
§ 153.03 PLATTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Overview. Except as hereinafter provided, all divisions of property
shall be by means of an approved plat.
   (B)   Concept Plan
      (1)   Prior to the submission of any plat for consideration, the
subdivider is encouraged to meet with City staff to introduce himself or
herself as a potential subdivider and learn what shall be expected of her or
him or her in the capacity and to determine the relationship of the proposed
subdivision with the Comprehensive Plan for the affected area. Prior to
submitting a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall present a concept plan
pursuant to the following minimum requirements:
         (a)   Plat boundary;
         (b)   North arrow and graphic scale;
         (c)   Street layout on and adjacent to plat;
         (d)   Designation of existing and proposed land use and zoning;
         (e)   Significant topographical features;
         (f)   General lot locations and layout; and
         (g)   Showing divisions (1)(a) through (6)(a) above for adjacent lands
owned or controlled by the subdivider.
   (C)   Preliminary Plat.
      (1)   Application. The property owner, individual or other entity that
has legal interest in the property may submit an application for a preliminary
plat on forms provided by the City, accompanied by the preliminary plat fee as
determined by the City Council. The application shall contain the following
information.
         (a)   Preliminary Plat Requirements. The preliminary plat size shall
not be less than 20 inches by 30 inches. All subdivision maps shall be drawn at
a scale of one inch is equal to 100 feet, unless otherwise required. An 11 inch
by 17 inch reduced print of each plan and plat is also required. The
preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
            1.   Identification and Description
               a.   Proposed name of subdivision, which shall not duplicate or
be similar in pronunciation or spelling to the name of any plat already
existing within the County;
               b.   Legal description of the property;
               c.   Names and addresses of the owner of record and any agent
having control of the land, subdivider, land surveyor, engineer, and designer
of the plat;
               d.   Existing conditions;
               e.   Boundary line of proposed subdivision;
               f.   Existing zoning classification;
               g.   Total approximate acreage and dimensions of the lots;
               h.   Location, widths and names of all existing or previously
platted street or other public way showing type, width and condition of
improvements, if any, railroad and utility right-of-way, parks and public open
spaces, permanent buildings and structures, easements, locations of catch
basins, manholes and hydrants, and any grades and/or invert elevations. The
alignment and grade of streets shall be designed under the direct supervision
of a registered professional engineer and should be done jointly with a
registered land surveyor.
               i.   Boundary lines of adjoining land within 150 feet,
identifying by name and ownership;
               j.   Topography data, including contours at vertical intervals
of not more than two feet; including 500 ft of adjoining land.
               k.   Water courses, marshes, wooded areas, rock outcrops, flood
plains, ponds with normal water level, ordinary high water level, and 100-year
water level labeled, power and transmission poles and lines and other
significant features; and
               l.   A description of soil types and characteristics for the
tract.
            2.   Subdivision Design Features
               a.   Street name shall conform to the Dakota County Street
Naming and Numbering System;
               b.   Location and width of proposed alleys, pedestrian ways and
utility easements.
               c.   Typical cross-sections of proposed improvements upon
streets and alleys together with an indication of the proposed stormwater run-
off.
               d.   Location, size, elevation, and gradient of the proposed
sanitary sewer, storm sewer, and watermain pipes and structures, if any.
               e.   Location and size of all storm water management practices.
Ponds shall be labeled with normal water level, ordinary high water level, and
100-year water level .
               f.   Layout, number, and dimension of all lots within the plat.
               g.   Areas of than streets, alleys, pedestrian ways and utility
easements intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of such area in acres.
            3.   Other Information
               a.   Statements of the proposed use of lots stating type of
buildings with number of proposed units, type of business or industry so as to
reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire hazards or congestion of
population;
               b.   Proposed protective covenants, if any;
               c.   Provisions for water supply;
               d.   Storm water management plan with calculations. Included in
the storm water management plan shall be maintenance procedures and their
expected frequency
               e.   Provisions for sewage disposal, drainage, and flood
control. If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan for
the areas, including dimensions;
               f.   Where parcels of land are subdivided into residential lots
greater than 24,000 square feet or 150 feet in width at the front setback line,
the plat shall be designed and shall show (in dashed lines) how lots can be re-
subdivided at some later date.
      (2)   Review.
         (a)   Review Process. Incomplete applications shall be rejected within
ten business days after it is received by the City. After receipt of a
completed application that contains all the required information, the
application shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission for a recommendation
to the City Council. The Planning Commission or the City Council must hold a
public hearing on the application.
         (b)   Decision. The City Council shall act upon a completed
application within 120 days of its submission, unless the applicant approves an
extension in writing.
            1.   Approval of a preliminary plat shall be approved in the form
of a resolution by majority vote of the entire governing body. The governing
body may require modifications, changes and revisions, or add conditions to the
plan as it deems necessary to carry out the purpose and intent of this Title,
the Zoning Ordinance or the Comprehensive Plan. Approval of the plan is an
acceptance of the general layout and authorizes the subdivider to complete the
steps necessary for final plat approval in accordance with the terms of
preliminary approval. Such preliminary approval does not constitute final
acceptance of the subdivision.
            2.   If the governing body denies approval of the preliminary plat,
the reasons for such action shall be recorded and transmitted to the applicant
unless otherwise stated in the resolution approving the preliminary plat. Said
preliminary approval shall be for one year from the date of preliminary plat
approval by the governing body unless otherwise stated in the resolutions
approving the preliminary or final plats where development of the project is in
phases.
         (c)   Qualifications Governing Approval of Preliminary Plat.
            1.   The approval of a preliminary plat by the City Council shall
only constitute acceptance of the design as a basis for the preparation of the
final plat by the owners or subdividers. Subsequent approval by appropriate
officials having jurisdiction will be required of proposals pertaining to water
supplies, storm drainage, sewage disposal, sidewalks, grading, gradients and
roadway widths, and the surfacing of streets, flooding issues, restrictive
covenants and similar items, prior to the approval of the final plat by the
City. Organizations with appropriate review and approval authority may include
but are not limited to: Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, U.S. Department of the Interior, Federal Emergency
Management Agency, Minnesota Environmental Quality Board and the Metropolitan
Council, and the appropriate watershed management organization.
            2.   No plan will be approved for a subdivision which includes any
area subject to periodic flooding or which contains extremely poor drainage
facilities which would make adequate drainage of the streets and lots
impossible. The subdivider must agree to make improvements which will, in the
opinion of the City Engineer or other approving agencies, make the area
completely safe for occupancy while providing adequate street and lot drainage.
These improvements shall not be in conflict with the City’s flood plain
regulations.
   (C)   Final Plat.
      (1)   Application. Within one year following approval of the preliminary
plat, unless an extension of time is requested in writing by the subdivider and
granted by the City Council prior to the expiration of the preliminary plat,
the subdivider shall file an application for final plat on forms provided by
the City, accompanied by the final plat filing fee determined by the City. The
final plat shall incorporate all changes required by the City Council regarding
the preliminary plat, but in all other respects, it shall conform to the
preliminary plat as approved. If the final plat is not filed within one year
following approval of the preliminary plat, the approval of the preliminary
plat shall be considered void, unless and extension is granted by the City
Council as stated herein.
         (a)   Final Plat Requirements. The final plat shall show:
            1.   All existing subdivision lines within the area, tied to the
plat. If there are not quarter-quarter (sixteenth) section lines within the
platted area, reference should be made to at least one outside, by distance and
angles;
            2.   Outside boundary lines and all angles and distances necessary
for closure of boundaries by latitude and departure;
            3.   Street lines and centerlines, lines of alleys, rights-of-way,
easements, including widths for each, lots, all other sites and reservations,
and all land deeded to the public, with dimensions, angles and all curve
functions;
            4.   All distances included in the dedication and all monuments,
angles, curve functions, etc., necessary for checking the entire description;
            5.   Lot numbers, consecutive, in each block starting with Number
1, and consecutive block numbers;
            6.   Certification by a registered land surveyor to the effect that
the plat represents a survey made by the surveyor and that monuments and
markers shown thereon exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic
details are correct; and
            7.   Other data, certificates, affidavits and endorsements required
by law and Dakota County regulations.
            8.   Specifications, layout, and grades of proposed improvements,
as approved by the City Engineer or the County Engineer, statement of those
already installed, and those to be installed later.
         (b)   Additional Requirements For Final Plat Approval
            1.   All approved permits.
            2.   Upon adoption and filing of a final plat, the City shall
prepare a street address map and distribute it to the applicant, utility
companies, Dakota County Sheriff’s office, and County.
            3.   A letter of credit of 120% of the engineer’s estimate or
actual bid if available, shall be placed with the city. The City may release a
portion of the letter of credit as public utility and street projects are
approved by the City Engineer.
            4.   A complete set of as-built construction drawings for any
public improvements constructed in the subdivision shall be furnished to the
City as soon as the construction is complete and prior to the City final
acceptance.
            5.   Any protective or restrictive covenants affecting the
subdivision or any part thereof.
      (2)   Review. The City Council shall either approval or deny the final
plat. The final plat shall not be approved if:
         (a)   It does not conform to the preliminary plat, including all
changes required by the Council; or
         (b)   It does not meet the engineering and design standards and
specifications of the City; or
         (c)   It includes any area subject to periodic flooding or which
contains extremely poor drainage capabilities which would make adequate
drainage of the streets and lots impossible, unless the subdivider agrees to
make improvements which will, in the opinion of the City and/or their designee,
make the area completely safe for occupancy and provide adequate street and lot
drainage; or
         (d)   The application is not accompanied by plans for water supply and
for waste and sewage disposal, which have been approved by a Building Inspector
as being sanitary and adequate according to the adequate standards and
specifications for such installations; or
         (e)   Any other unsatisfactory conditions or inadequacies have been
corrected; or
         (f)   It is held unsuitable by the City for the reason of flooding,
inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment facilities. All lots
within the flood plain districts shall be subdivided and contain a building
site outside of the floodway districts at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
         (g)   Plat is not consistent with the Comprehensive Plan land use map
or the City’s zoning map.
      (3)   Effect of Plat Approval. For one year following preliminary plat
approval and for two years following final plat approval, unless the City and
the developer agree otherwise, no amendment to the Comprehensive Plan or City
ordinances shall apply to or affect the use, development density, lot size, lot
layout, or dedication required or permitted by the approved preliminary or
final plat.
         a.   The subdivider shall present a copy of the approved final plat to
the County for recording. Unless the plat is duly recorded and a certified copy
of the recorded plat is presented to the City Clerk within 60 days from the
date of final plat approval, City approval of the plat is void.
   (D)   Compliance Prerequisite to Issuance of Building Permit. No building
permit shall be issued for any construction, enlargement, alteration or repair,
demolition or moving of any building or structure on any lot or parcel until
all the requirements of this Title have been fully met.
§ 153.04 EXCEPTIONS TO PLATTINGS.
   The application for a minor subdivision or a lot combination resulting in
three or fewer legal conforming lots may be approved by the City Council upon
submission of a certified survey identifying existing lots and the proposed lot
subdivision or combination, with legal descriptions and accompanied by the
appropriate minor subdivision filing fee. Minor subdivisions of commercial or
industrial properties must be platted.
§ 153.05 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Application for Variance; Consideration: Applications for a variance
shall be made in writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary
plat is filed for consideration. Such application shall state fully all facts
relied upon by the subdivider as to the applicant’s opinion why each variance
finding applies to the property in question. The applications shall be
supplemented with maps, plans or other additional data which aids City staff,
the Planning Commission and City Council in the analysis of the proposed
project. Such variances shall be considered at the same time as the preliminary
plat. Any variance or modification thus considered shall be recorded and
entered in the minutes of the governing body, setting forth the reasons for
granting or denying the variance.
   (B)   Findings Of Fact: Upon receiving a report from the Planning
Commission, the governing body may grant a variance in any particular case
where the subdivider can show that strict compliance to these regulations could
infringe on the reasonable subdivision of the land. Such relief may be granted
provided there is no detriment to the public welfare and no impairment of the
intended purpose of this Title and all of the following applicable findings can
be met:
      (1)   There are unique circumstances or conditions affecting said
property, such that the strict applications of the provisions of this Title
would infringe on the reasonable subdivision of the land.
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner.
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to the other property in the area in which said property
is situated and will not have an adverse effect upon traffic safety.
   (C)   Conditions Of Variances: In granting variances as herein provided, the
Council shall prescribe conditions that it deems necessary to protect the
public interest. In making a determination, the Council shall find that:
      (1)   The proposed subdivision will promote the development of a more
desirable project for the community.
      (2)   The proposed subdivision will be in harmony with adjacent areas.
      (3)   The proposed subdivision will not adversely affect the intent and
purpose of the Comprehensive Plan, text or amendments thereto, or other
ordinances of the City.
      (4)   The proposed variance will not be contrary to the purpose and
intent of this Title.
§ 153.06 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General Overview. Minn. Stat. § 462.358, subd. 2A, authorizes the City
to condition approval of the subdivision of property on the construction and
installation of certain utilities. The intent of this chapter is to
specifically set out the required improvements which promote and protect the
public health, safety and general welfare. The City reserves the right to
require additional improvements if deemed necessary by circumstances and
conditions unique to these particular lands. No subdivision of land is allowed
unless storm sewer, sanitary sewer, a municipal water supply, streets and other
public improvements are constructed to serve the area being divided unless some
other ordinance or statute specifically authorizes said division.
   (B)   Payment for Facilities Benefiting Entire Community.
      (1)   If the cost of an improvement would, by general policy, be assessed
only in part to the improved property and the remaining cost paid out of
general tax levy, provision may be made for the payment of a portion of the
cost of the improvement, representing the benefit to such lands, to be assessed
against such lands. In such a situation, the subdivider will be required to pay
for only such portion of the whole cost of such improvement as will represent
the benefit to the property within the subdivision.
      (2)   Where existing trunk facilities provide the subdivision with a
lateral benefit, an amount equal to the estimated current value of the lateral
benefit, as determined by the City Engineer, shall be paid to the City.
   (C)   Development Agreement.
      (1)   Contents of Agreement. The City may require entering into a
contract, known as a Development Agreement with the subdivider/developer. The
Agreement shall provide for the completion of the improvements required by this
Title. Prior to the subdivider or City initiating the improvements, the final
plat and resolution shall be recorded, the development agreement and all cash
deposits paid, the financial guarantees shall be posted and approved by the
City, and land required to be dedicated shall be conveyed to the City.
      (2)   Public Improvements.
         (a)   The Agreement may require the subdivider/developer to furnish
and construct at the sole expense of the subdivider and at no expense to the
City all the public improvements in accordance with the plans and
specifications prepared by the City Engineer or require the subdivider/
developer to petition the City to furnish and construct improvements in
accordance with the plans and specifications prepared by the City Engineer. The
City Engineer shall prepare preliminary cost estimates for the public
improvements, together with the costs for engineering, legal, fiscal and
administrative costs related to the project, which shall be incorporated into
the Development Agreement.
         (b)   The completion date for the public improvements shall be
reasonable, considering the work to be done, the season of the year and proper
correlation of the improvements with construction activities in the subdivision
and other projects which are included within the City improvement contract(s).
         (c)   The Development Agreement shall contain provisions for park
dedication as required of this Title.
      (3)   Boulevard and Yard Improvements. The subdivider shall be required
to assure the performance and/or installation of the following:
         (a)   Rough grading of all public rights of way.
         (b)   Grading and seeding of vacant lots.
         (c)   Cutting of grass and weeds, in excess of eight inches in height.
         (d)   Street sweeping and cleaning of storm sewers and holding ponds.
         (e)   Installation and maintenance of erosion control devices.
         (f)   Boulevard sod, boulevard trees, yard sod and other landscaping
and irrigation.
         (g)   Replacement of trees removed from the right of way.
         (h)   Monument replacement.
         (i)   Surveyor’s certification of individual lot grading compliance.
         (j)   Drainage and erosion control plan compliance.
         (k)   Entryway signs.
         (l)   Final grading of each lot in subdivisions in compliance with the
approved plan.
         (m)   Driveways compliant with this code.
         (n)   Street lights.
      (4)   The subdivider shall not transfer or assign its obligations to
install and pay for boulevard trees, sod and hard surface driveways to the home
builder or purchaser of any lot without the consent of the City Engineer.
      (5)   Private Utilities – New Lines to be Underground. All electrical
distribution systems (excluding main line feeders and high voltage distribution
lines), telephone service lines, gas lines, telecommunications lines, cable
lines and services constructed within the confines of and providing service to
customers in a newly platted area, shall be buried underground in joint trench;
unless the City Council, by resolution, determines that:
         (a)   Such requirement would result in unnecessary duplication of
facilities where the property to be served abuts an existing development
already served by overhead facilities; or
         (b)   That based upon engineering considerations, underground
installation of such facilities is not feasible in a particular plat or portion
thereof; or
         (c)   That the size of the subdivision is too small to justify the
underground installation of such facilities.
   (D)   Financial Guarantees.
      (1)   Subdivider Petitioned Projects.
         (a)   Financial Guarantees Required Generally. The subdivider shall be
required to post financial guarantees to ensure completion of all improvements
required by this title, the preliminary and final plat resolutions, and the
Development Agreement. The financial guarantees shall be in the form of cash
deposit, irrevocable letter of credit, or other form of financial security
found to be acceptable by the City. The City is entitled to require the
subdivider to cover the City’s expenses for the engineering, inspection,
testing, legal, and administrative and other costs of up to 12% of the total
estimated cost of the improvements in a nonrefundable cash deposit.
         (b)   Public Improvements. 100% of improvements including, but not
limited to, street lighting, sanitary sewer, water, storm sewer, curb and
gutter, street grading and street bituminous surfacing, shall be assessed
against properties in the subdivision. The subdivider shall provide the City
with a cash deposit or LOC in an amount at least equal to 150% of the total
estimated cost of the improvements which shall guarantee payment to the City of
the assessments.
         (c)   Boulevard and Yard Improvements. The subdivider shall be
required to post financial guarantees in the amount of 150% of the estimated
costs to assure completion of the items listed in subsection C(3) of this
chapter. The subdivider shall deposit with the City, from a bank or other
reputable and financially sound institution subject to the approval of the
finance director, a letter of credit guaranteeing performance and completion of
improvements/work required by the Development Agreement.
      (2)   Noncompliance. If there is noncompliance with the requirements of
this Title, at any time, the City can direct the performance of any work
required of the subdivider. The cost of the City’s performance of any such
work, including labor, equipment and material, shall be paid from the posted
financial guarantees. The developer shall be liable to the City to the extent
that the financial security is inadequate to reimburse the City its costs and
pay for the completion of the work.
      (3)   Return of Cash Escrows or Reduction of LOC. If all, or a part, of a
development has been completed, inspected and accepted, financial securities
for that portion accepted by the City may be reduced by the City Council and
full or partial payment be returned to the subdivider (with the exception of
the nonrefundable public improvement cash deposit required by D(1)(a) of this
section). In no case shall the financial guarantee be reduced to less than 10%
of the original amount of the financial guarantees for offsite improvements and
erosion control.
   (E)   Inspections and Acceptance.
      (1)   Inspections. The City Engineer or their staff shall regularly
inspect for defects in the construction of required improvements on public
lands or easements and shall require the subdivider/developer to conform with
the approved plans for the subdivision.
      (2)   Statement to Engineer. Upon completion of grading or construction
improvements, the subdivider shall file with the City Engineer a statement
stipulating the following:
         (a)   That all required grading or construction improvements are
complete and in compliance with the standards specified;
         (b)   That the subdivider knows of no defects or deviations from any
cause in those improvements; and
         (c)   That the grading or construction improvements are free and clear
of any encumbrance or liens.
      (3)   Acceptance of Improvements. If the engineer has certified that the
aforementioned improvements are complete and free from defect, and upon receipt
of other statements and agreements listed above, the governing body shall
accept the construction of those improvements. The governing body may, at its
discretion, accept the construction of any portion of the required
improvements; provided, that all statements and agreements specified have been
received for that portion of the improvements.
   (F)   Construction Plans.
      (1)   Construction plans and specifications for the required improvements
conforming in all respects to the standards of the City Engineer and the
ordinances of the City must be prepared at the subdivider’s expense and
approved by the City Engineer.
      (2)   At the inspection, all required improvements on the site that are
to be installed under the provisions of this chapter must be inspected during
the course of construction by the City Engineer at the subdivider’s expense,
and acceptance must be subject to the City Engineer’s certificate of compliance
with the contract.
§ 153.07 GENERAL SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Suitability of Land for Subdivision. All land may be subdivided. No
land will be subdivided into buildable lots when it is unsuitable for reason of
flooding, inadequate drainage, soil and rock formations with severe limitations
for development, severe erosion potential, unfavorable topography, inadequate
water supply or sewer disposal capabilities, or any other feature likely to be
harmful to the health, safety or welfare of residents of the community or
future residents of the proposed subdivision. In applying this section, the
facts constituting the basis upon which one concludes that the land is not
suitable for a proposed use affords the subdivider an opportunity to present
evidence regarding suitability.
   (B)   Preservation of Natural Features.
      (1)   A proposed subdivision shall not significantly affect or destroy
natural features or environmentally sensitive areas. The Council may deny
approval of a subdivision if provision is not made for protection of these
areas or the plat is not consistent with the policies contained in the
Comprehensive Plan or the subdivider has not shown that reasonable alternative
subdivision or street locations will not reduce impacts or intrusions into
these areas.
      (2)   Subdivision review shall be coordinated with the requirements and
procedures for environmental assessment and impact statements contained in this
Code. Any mandatory environmental assessment worksheet (EAW), as required by
the Minnesota Environmental Quality Board Regulations, shall be submitted as
part of the application for preliminary plat approval.
   (C)   Parkland Dedication.
      (1)   Authority, Purpose, Basis.
         (a)   Pursuant to Minnesota Statute § 462.358, Subd. 2b, the City has
authority to require a reasonable portion of the buildable land of any proposed
subdivision be dedicated to the public or preserved for public use, including
parks, recreational facilities, playgrounds, trails, wetlands, and public open
space. In the alternative, the City may choose to accept a cash fee for some or
all of the value of the dedication.
         (b)   Purpose. The City recognizes that the preservation and creation
of parks, recreational facilities, playgrounds, trails, wetlands, and public
open space is essential to maintaining a healthful, safe and desirable
community. The City must not only provide these necessary facilities for the
citizens of today, but also for the future needs of the City as described in
the Comprehensive Plan and the Parks, Trails and Open Space Master Plan.
   It is recognized that the demand for park, recreational facilities,
playground, trails, and public open space within a municipality is directly
relate to the density and intensity of development permitted and allowed within
any area. Greater densities mean greater numbers of people and higher demands
for such public amenities.
         (c)   Basis. The City shall conduct an individualized determination of
the amount of land needed for the purposes set forth in this Chapter and shall
demonstrate an essential nexus between the land dedication or cash fee, and the
purpose sought to be achieved. The dedication or fee shall bear a rough
proportionality to the need created by the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   Land Dedication
         (a)   The amount of land to be dedicated under this section will
generally follow the schedules below, however the total amount required for
dedication may increase or decrease based on the City’s basis analysis. The
City alone shall determine the location and configuration of any land
dedicated, taking into consideration the suitability of the land for its
intended purpose and the City’s needs for park, playground, trail, or public
open space. All land dedication determinations shall be based on the net area
of the property. The “net area” of the property shall be the gross area of the
property minus the area of wetlands, lakes, and streams below the ordinary
high-water mark. The land dedicated for public use shall be in addition to
property dedicated for streets, alleys, easements, storm water ponding, or
other public ways.
         (b)   Condition of Areas to be Dedicated. The dedicated land areas
will consist of suitable land and will be located so as to best serve the
present and future needs of the neighborhood and community for recreation and
park purposes. Lands below the 100-year floodplain elevation and land required
for stormwater holding ponds will receive no credit toward the park dedication
requirements. Area to be dedicated for public park, trail, open space or
ponding shall be brought to a suitable grade, seeded, fertilized, planted, or
sodded condition by the subdivider. All dead trees, trash, junk, unwanted
structures or similar undesirable elements shall be removed by the owner or
subdivider at the expense of said owner or subdivider.
         (c)   Residential Property.
 
ACRES             ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE OF NET AREA
0—2 acres       10%
More than 2 acres 5%
 
         (d)   Commercial. An estimated 10% of the net area shall be dedicated
for public space.
         (e)   Industrial. An estimated 4% of the net area shall be dedicated
for public space.
      (3)   Cash Contributions.
      At the City Council’s sole discretion, a cash contribution may be
accepted in whole or in part for the required land dedication under this
Chapter. The park land dedication fee guidelines shall be determined by the
City Council on an individualized basis. The amounts included in the City’s fee
table below are for use as a general guideline.
         (a)   Timing of payment. Cash contributions shall be paid prior to the
release of the final plat or subdivision approval.
         (b)   Use of payments. Cash payments received under this Section shall
be placed in a special fund to be used only for the acquisition and development
or improvement of parks, recreational facilities, playgrounds, trails,
wetlands, or public open space based on the City’s approved park systems plan.
         (c)   Determining the amount of a cash contribution or combination
cash and land contribution. In the event the contribution is cash or a
combination of cash and land, the City will first determine the total land
dedication required pursuant to the basis analysis and then convert that total
land dedication to its fair market value pursuant to Minnesota Statute §
462.358, subd. 2b(c). Once the total conversion from land to cash is
determined, the fair market value of the land actually dedicated, if any, shall
be subtracted and the remainder shall be the amount due in cash.
TABLE 1
CASH FEE AMOUNTS IN LIEU OF PARK LAND
 
Type of Use  Cash Payment
Residential: Estimated $3,400, per unit based on individualized determination
Commercial   Estimated $6,000.00 per acre based on individualized determination
Industrial   Estimated $6,000.00 per acre based on individualized determination
         (d)   Fair Market Value. For purposes of this section, “fair market
value” means the value of the land as determined by the City annually based on
tax valuation of the Dakota County Assessor’s Office.
§ 153.08 DESIGN AND ENGINEERING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lots. Unless modified herein, minimum lot area, dimensions and street
frontage shall be determined by the City’s zoning ordinance. Except in the case
of planned unit developments, when some strict requirements may be waived, the
following general standards shall be observed for all lots suitable for
development:
      (1)   Required Frontage on Public Way. Each lot shall front upon a public
street. Each lot shall have direct public access or private easement access to
a public street unless restricted by City Council resolution.
      (2)   Boundary Prohibition. No lot shall extend over a political
subdivision boundary.
      (3)   Lot Grades. Each lot shall provide a building site at least 18
inches above the street grade at the top back of curb. Lot grades on lots and
blocks of record shall be verified, prior to issuance of building permits, on a
certificate of survey.
      (4)   Remnants of Lots. All remnants of lots below minimum standards in
the applicable zoning district left over after subdividing a larger tract must
be added to adjacent lots rather than allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
      (5)   Lots Abutting Bodies of Water. Lots abutting upon a watercourse,
drainage channel or stormwater pond shall have additional depth or width to
ensure that building sites are not subject to flooding. Road access both to the
subdivision and to the individual building sites shall be no lower than two
feet below the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (6)   Through or Double-Frontage Lots. Through or double-frontage lots
shall not be permitted, except where such lots abut a minor arterial or
principal arterial highway. Such lots shall have an additional depth of ten
feet for berming, screening and/or plantings to negate noise and other
potential adverse impacts from higher volume roadways. Vehicular access may be
limited to one street at the time of subdividing.
      (7)   Cul-De-Sac Lots. Cul-de-sac lots shall not be narrower than 60 feet
in width at the right of way. An exception can be made in unsewered areas by
the City Council in the case of severe topography where land would be
underutilized without this exception or when developed in a sewered area under
a planned unit development zoning district.
      (8)   Corner Lots. Corner lots shall be at least ten feet wider than
interior lots.
      (9)   Transition Lots. Where a proposed subdivision is adjacent to higher
volume roadways, incompatible land uses, zoning districts, or future land uses
identified on the Comprehensive Plan or amendments thereto, depths of lots
shall be increased by at least 25 feet to allow for a combination of space
berming or other landscaping techniques to buffer each incompatible land use.
      (10)   Designation of Lot Square Footage. Lot square footage shall be
designated on the preliminary plat, boundary adjustments or rural subdivisions
or simple lot divisions
      (11)   Building Sites. Lots shall be designated and building sites
located so that sufficient lot width and depth are provided for reasonable
space for outdoor living and required parking space is available. Residential
living units built on a slope shall have at least 20 feet of rear yard usable
space at a minimum slope.
      (12)   Minimum Rear Lot Line. Where practical, all lots should have a
minimum of 30 feet in width at the rear lot line.
      (13)   Natural Features. Subdivision design shall be sensitive to such
items as rock outcropping, tree growth, drainage and watercourses, slopes and
bluffs. The design and grading plan shall strive to preserve those that add
attractiveness or environmental sensitivity to the proposed development.
   (B)   Blocks.
      (1)   General Requirements. Block length and width or acreage within
boundary streets shall accommodate the size of the residential lots required in
the area by this code and provide for convenient access, circulation control
and safety of street traffic.
      (2)   Length. In residential areas, other than water frontage, blocks
shall not be less than 300 feet nor more than 1,300 feet in length, measured
along the greatest dimension of the enclosed block area, unless minor variances
are necessitated by topography or conformance with an adjoining plat.
      (3)   Crosswalks. In blocks over 900 feet long, pedestrian crosswalks may
be required pursuant to section E of this chapter.
      (4)   Widths. Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots with
the minimum depth required by this code, except where one tier lots are
necessary because of topographical conditions.
      (5)   Commercial and Industrial Areas. Blocks for commercial and
industrial areas may vary from the elements of design contained in this section
if the nature of the use requires.
   (C)   Streets.
      (1)   General Standards.
         (a)   Proposed streets shall conform to the state road and county
highway plans as have been prepared, adopted and/or filed as prescribed by law,
and to the City’s Comprehensive Plan.
         (b)   Streets shall be logically related to the topography to produce
usable lots and reasonable grades.
         (c)   Local streets shall be laid out to discourage their use by
through traffic.
         (d)   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided but may be subdivided,
the arrangement of streets shall make provision for the projection of streets
into adjoining areas, by carrying the new streets to the boundaries of the new
subdivision at appropriate locations. The street arrangement shall not cause
hardship to owners of adjoining land in platting their own land and providing
convenient access to it.
         (e)   Half or partial streets will not be permitted, except where
reasonable subdivision of a tract is in conformance with other requirements and
standards of this title and where satisfactory assurance for dedication of the
remaining part of the street right of way can be secured. Wherever a tract to
be subdivided adjoins an existing half or partial street, the part of the
street within such tract shall be platted.
         (f)   Dead end streets shall be prohibited, except as stubs to permit
future street extension in adjoining tracts or when designed as cul-de-sac
streets. Temporary turnarounds shall be provided.
         (g)   Private streets shall be prohibited, unless approved by the City
Council as part of a planned unit development subdivision or overlay district.
         (h)   Subdivisions abutting arterial roads, as defined in the
Comprehensive Plan must include a buffer strip 75 feet wide.
         (i)   All landscaped medians and cul-de-sac islands must be
landscaped. A landscape plan must be submitted to the City for review and
approval.
         (j)   A uniform landscape design, utilizing natural landscape
plantings and materials, must be installed around the perimeter of all ponds,
infiltration basins, and similar drainage features.
         (k)   A uniform mailbox design must be approved as part of the
preliminary plat review and approval process.
      (2)   Minor Arterial and Collector Streets.
         (a)   Access of minor streets onto state and county highways, or to
streets designated complying with the governing jurisdiction.
         (b)   Access to collectors or minor arterials, shall be prohibited at
intervals of less than ¼ mile.
         (c)   Where a proposed plat is adjacent to a minor arterial street,
there shall be no direct vehicular access from individual lots to such streets
and roads. In platting small tracts of land fronting on minor arterials where
there is no other alternative, a temporary entrance may be granted; as
neighboring land is subdivided and more preferable access arrangements become
possible, such temporary access permits shall terminate.
         (d)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or planned
collector or minor arterial street or a railroad right of way, a street
approximately parallel to and on each side of such thoroughfare and right of
way may be required for adequate protection of residential properties and
separation of through and local traffic. Such service streets shall be located
at a distance from the major thoroughfare or railroad right of way suitable for
the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes in
residential districts or for commercial and industrial purposes in appropriate
districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due regard for the
requirements of approach grade and future grade preparations.
      (3)   Street Widths.
         (a)   Minimum right of way widths and pavement widths for each type of
public street or road shall be as follows:
 
                         Street or Lane Width
Type of Street           (Face of curb to            Right-of-Way Width
                         Face of curb)
                         12 feet minimum for lane
Minor arterial street                               120 feet
                         4 feet minimum for shoulder
                         11 feet minimum for lane
                          
                         2 feet minimum for
Collector street         shoulder,                   100 feet
                          
                         8 feet minimum for parking
                         width
Local street             34 feet                     66 feet
Cul-de-sac turnaround    50-foot radius              15 feet from back of curb
radius
Cul-de-sac/rural other   50-foot radius              15 feet from back of curb
than a collector roadway
 
         (b)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing street of
inadequate right-of- way width, additional right of way width shall be
provided.
         (c)   Additional right of way and roadway widths may be required to
promote public safety and convenience when special conditions require, or to
provide parking space in areas of intensive use.
         (d)   Extensions of existing streets with lesser right-of-way widths
than prescribed above may be permitted only as a part of a “planned unit
development” as defined in the zoning ordinance.
      (4)   Cul-de-Sac Streets.
         (a)   Cul-de-sac streets, permanently designed as such, shall not
exceed 500 feet in length, except where, by reason of unfavorable land form or
the irregular shape of the land, a normal pattern cannot be established, or
that land would be underutilized.
         (b)   Unless future extension is clearly impracticable or undesirable,
the turnaround right of way shall be placed adjacent to a subdivision property
line, and a right of way of the same width as needed for the type of street
shall be carried to such property line in such a way as to permit future
extension of the street into the adjoining tract. At such time as such a street
is extended, the acreage covered by the turnaround outside the boundaries of
the extended street shall revert in ownership to the property owner fronting on
the temporary turnaround.
      (5)   Street Grades.
         (a)   Streets shall be graded in accordance with the plan approved by
the engineer. The grading shall include the entire width of the right of way
and shall provide a boulevard section in addition to the minimum pavement
width.
         (b)   Street grade within 100 feet of an intersection shall not exceed
2%.
         (c)   Centerline gradients shall be at least 0.5% and shall not exceed
the following:
 
Classification                        Gradient
Minor arterials and collector streets 5 percent
Local streets                         8 percent
 
         (d)   Different connecting street gradients shall be connected with
vertical curves if the change in gradient in 100 feet is greater than 0.5%.
Vertical curves shall be designed based on stopping sight distance in
accordance with State Aid Standards
      (6)   Pavement. All streets and alleys shall be improved with concrete or
bituminous surface and with concrete curb and gutter, except as may otherwise
be approved by the governing body for rural areas identified in subsection 6(b)
of this section.
         (a)   Urban Areas.
            1.   The design of street pavement for all streets covered by this
title shall be in accordance with the state transportation department “Road
Design Manual No. 5- 291” for flexible pavements. The design thickness of the
surfacing elements shall be in accordance with the flexible pavement design
standard for road classifications as follows:
 
Classification                Pavement Design: Axle Load
Minor arterial, collector and As determined by projected traffic needs
commercial service streets
Local streets                 Seven ton minimum
 
            2.   To determine subgrade soil classifications, soil samples shall
be collected and analyzed by a reputable testing laboratory. The soil analysis
shall be submitted to the engineer with the pavement plans. Soil samples shall
be taken along the centerline of the proposed road, at intervals not exceeding
500 feet.
            3.   Concrete curbs and gutters shall be constructed on both sides
of streets. The construction shall be in accordance with “Standard
Specification for Highway Construction”, state highway design specification no.
2531. Concrete curb and gutter cross sections shall be either design no. B618
or design D.
         (b)   Rural Areas.
            1.   Unless otherwise approved by the Council, new streets in rural
areas shall be improved to urban standards. The Council may approve streets to
be surfaced with gravel if there will be three or fewer lots abutting the
proposed street.
            2.   Streets which will have only a gravel surface shall be so
designed that the base and subbase requirements of state transportation
department “Road Design Manual No. 5-291” for flexible pavement are met. At
least the top six inches of the street surface shall be of class 5 gravel or a
material approved by the engineer.
      (7)   Intersections and Street Jogs.
         (a)   Streets shall intersect at right angles. The angle formed by
intersecting streets shall not be less than 60°, with 90° intersections
preferred.
         (b)   Intersections of more than four corners shall be prohibited.
         (c)   Roadways of street intersections shall be rounded by a radius to
the back of curb of not less than 15 feet. Corners at the entrance to the
turnaround portion of cul-de-sacs shall be rounded by a radius of not less than
15 feet.
         (d)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet shall
be prohibited.
         (e)   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one
point by more than ten degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a
radius of not less than 275 feet unless waived by the City Council.
      (8)   Boulevard and Yard Improvements.
         (a)   In urban and rural areas, all boulevards and yards must have a
minimum of four inches of organic topsoil or black dirt placed on them and then
be sodded as specified in this title.
         (b)   Driveways shall be constructed from the curb to minimum
structural setback and the width of the proposed driveway in all zoning
districts. The driveway shall be constructed of four-inch thick asphalt or air
intrained concrete 3,000 psi, brick pavers or better. This provision is not
required in rural zoning districts.
      (9)   Sodding of Residential and Commercial Lots.
         (a)   The entire lot area, except for areas proposed for landscape
beds and below the high water elevation for storm water basins for all
residential and commercial lots in new developing urban areas must be sodded.
         (b)   All residential and commercial lots in rural areas shall be
sodded from the street curb to the minimum front yard setback line of the
zoning district therein located.
      (10)   Street Names and Signs.
         (a)   Names of new streets shall not duplicate existing or platted
street names unless a new street is a continuation of, or in alignment with,
the existing or platted street, in which event, it shall bear the name of the
existing or platted street. Street names shall conform to the county uniform
street naming and property numbering system.
         (b)   All street signs shall be provided and installed by the City at
the expense of the subdivider.
   (D)   Alleys.
      (1)   No new alleys may be installed in any zoning district in the City.
   (E)   Sidewalks, Walkways, Trails, and Bikeways.
      (1)   Where Required.
         (a)   In residential districts sidewalks shall be installed on both
sides of all public streets.
         (b)   Sidewalks or trails shall be installed on both sides of all
minor arterial and collector streets.
         (c)   In blocks over 900 feet long, ten-foot-wide paved pedestrian
trails/crosswalks may be required through the blocks in locations where such
crosswalks are deemed necessary to public health, convenience and necessity.
Suitable paving, fencing or screening shall be provided by the subdivider.
      (2)   Design Standards.
         (a)   All sidewalk widths shall be a minimum of five feet.
         (b)   All trail widths shall be a minimum of eight feet.
         (c)   Sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot away from the
property line, and the profile grade shall not exceed eight percent.
         (d)   All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete at least four
inches thick. At least six inches of gravel shall be placed under all sidewalks
with the area that crosses a driveway being thickened to match the driveway
(six inches minimum for residential, eight inches minimum for commercial).
Where sidewalks intersect at street intersections or are within three feet of
the back of curb, the area between the sidewalk and the curb shall be filled in
with concrete, and the apron shall be handicap accessible per design
requirements of the City Engineer.
         (e)   All trails shall be constructed of bituminous at least four
inches thick. At least eight inches of gravel shall be placed under all trails.
Where trails intersect at street intersections or are within three feet of the
back of curb, the area between the sidewalk and the curb shall be filled in
with concrete, and the concrete apron shall be handicap accessible per design
requirements of the City Engineer.
         (f)   Notwithstanding a waiver of the requirements for the immediate
construction of sidewalks, all streets shall be graded within the rights of way
for future sidewalk construction.
         (g)   Pedestrian crosswalks/walkways/bikeways between lots shall be
required in locations deemed necessary to provide access to public facilities.
Sidewalks at least five feet in width shall be required in all pedestrian
crosswalks.
         (h)   Receiving pedestrian ramps shall be installed along the sidewalk
across from all intersecting streets regardless of if the street has a
pedestrian facility
   (F)   Utilities.
      (1)   Trunk Facilities. Where a larger size water main, sanitary sewer,
storm drain or similar facility is required to serve areas outside the
subdivision, the larger facility required must be constructed. Additional cost
is to be borne by the benefiting properties, and the assessments are to be
determined by the governing body where existing trunk facilities provide the
subdivision with a lateral benefit. An amount equal to the estimated current
value of the lateral benefit, as determined by the City Engineer, shall be paid
to the City.
      (2)   Sewer and Water.
         (a)   Urban Areas.
            1.   Sewer Lines.
               a.   No public sanitary sewer facilities shall be extended which
are not in conformance with the utility staging plan of the City’s
Comprehensive Plan.
               b.   Where trunk line sanitary sewer facilities are available,
the subdivider shall install sanitary sewers and connect such sanitary sewers
to such trunk line sewers. Extensions of the public sewer system shall be
designed to provide public sewer service to each lot.
               c.   All sanitary sewers shall be inspected by the City by means
of television, at the subdivider’s expense, prior to their acceptance by the
City. In the event that such facilities are not available but, in the opinion
of the City Council, can be made available within a reasonable period of time,
such sewers and all necessary laterals extending from the main sewer to the
street curb shall be installed and capped for future connection as service
becomes available.
               d.   Unless otherwise required, a minimum eight inch sanitary
sewer pipe shall be placed at grades approved by the engineer. Mains over eight
inches in size may be required, and the additional cost may be borne by the
City. Service wyes shall be four inches; rubber or plastic compression joints
are required.
            2.   Water Mains.
               a.   Where mains from public water system are available, the
subdivider shall install water mains on the plat and connect such mains to such
public water system.
               b.   Extensions of the public water supply system shall, when
available, be designed to provide public water service to each lot. Such
extensions shall comply with the criteria, recommendations and policies of the
comprehensive water system plan, if applicable, or if not, as required by the
City Engineer.
               c.   A minimum water main of eight inch ductile iron pipe or
other approved pipe shall be required. Mains over eight inches in size may be
required, and the additional cost may be borne by the community.
            3.   Building Services. Each applicable building service shall be
run from the main to the property line where a cap or plug shall be placed
until the service is extended to the structure. A one inch type K copper water
service, corporation stop, curb box and stop, and four inch sewer service shall
be minimum requirements and may be placed in a common trench in accordance with
the Department of Health.
         (b)   Rural Areas.
            1.   Sewage Disposal Systems.
               a.   Where lots cannot be connected with a public sewerage
system, provision must be made for sanitary sewerage facilities, consisting of
a central treatment plant or individual disposal devices for each lot.
               b.   Any subdivision or lot not provided with offsite sewer
facilities shall be subject to soil and percolation tests to determine whether
the lot size proposed will meet minimum standards of health and sanitation due
to limitations of soils as shown on existing soils maps. The lot area and
topography must be such that it will accommodate an adequate disposal system to
serve the residence for the estimated unsewered years, as determined by the
governing body. Such test shall be made at the expense of the subdivider, and a
sketch map shall be submitted to identify the specific locations where tests
were made. At least two soil borings and two percolation tests shall be
performed on each proposed lot for the purpose of siting both a primary and
secondary drainfield.
               c.   All sewage disposal systems shall comply with the standard
of WPC-40 as interpreted by the State Pollution Control Agency, Minnesota Rules
Ch. 7080 and Minnesota Rules Ch. 6120, the utilities element of the
Comprehensive Plan, and any other regulations adopted by the City for their
installation and maintenance. All on site system designers and installers shall
be certified by the Minnesota pollution control agency.
               d.   In any situation where the Council approves the
installation of onsite disposal units, they shall be so located as to permit
the easiest and least expensive connection to the sewer when it becomes
available and usable. Where such onsite units are installed, the builder shall
provide underground plumbing ten feet beyond the footing and plugged. The area
around the stack shall be so scored that the septic tank line can be
disconnected, and connection made with the public sanitary sewer system.
               e.   When an individual sewage system is used and the septic
tank is placed on a side other than that from which the public sewer line would
connect, a capped sewage disposal line shall be extended from the point of
ground entrance of the basement or house to a point ten feet beyond and to the
side from which the future sewer connection will be made. Inside the basement,
the elbow shall be set up to be easily reversed for connection to the capped
line.
            2.   Water; Individual Wells. An individual well shall produce at
least ten gallons per minute, have a well casing at least four inches in
diameter and be grouted to provide a safe, potable water supply.
      (3)   Storm Water Drainage. A drainage system design shall be required
that conforms to the City’s surface water plan and may include a storm sewer
system or a system of open ditches, culverts, pipes, catchbasins and ponding
areas, or both systems. Such facilities and easements shall be installed as
will adequately provide for the drainage of surface water; drainageway
easements or land dedication may be required when such easements or land is
needed in the public interest for purposes of floodplain management, proper
drainage, prevention of erosion, pedestrian access to water bodies or other
public purpose. If there is a watershed district, that board must approve all
surface water drainage. All such systems shall conform to all City drainage
plans and to the City’s Comprehensive Plan.
      (4)   Easements.
         (a)   Easements at least 12 feet wide, centered on rear and other lot
lines as required, shall be provided for utilities where necessary. They shall
have continuity of alignment from block to block. Where underground utilities
are being installed, a front or side yard easement may be required. These
easements shall be shown on the plat.
         (b)   Easements shall be provided along each side of the centerline of
any watercourse or drainage channel, whether or not shown on the Comprehensive
Plan, to a width sufficient to allow for maintenance and protection of storm
sewers, and to provide for stormwater runoff from a ten year storm of more than
one hour duration.
         (c)   Utility and drainage easements shall be dedicated for the
required use. Where necessary, drainage easements corresponding with lot line
shall be provided. Such easements for drainage purposes shall not be less than
20 feet in width or a 1:1 (H:V) from the invert of the utility, whichever is
greater.
      (5)   Utility Location.
         (a)   When practicable and feasible, all utilities shall be placed
underground. All underground work shall be completed prior to street surfacing.
All utility lines for telephone and electrical service shall be placed in rear
line easements when carried on overhead poles.
         (b)   Unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer and the public
works director, all utilities shall be constructed out from the curb line a
distance of no more than eight feet.
         (c)   Street Lighting. All subdivisions shall contain street lighting
if a new public street is constructed in a manner that conforms to City policy.
   (G)   Monuments.
      (1)   Monuments Required. All subdivision boundary corners, block and lot
corners, road intersection corners and points of tangency and curvature shall
be marked with survey monuments meeting the minimum requirements of state law.
All federal, state, county or other official benchmarks, monuments or
triangulation stations adjacent to the property shall be preserved in precise
position unless a relocation is approved by the controlling agency. These
monuments shall be set within one year after recording of the final plat, or
sooner if specified in the Development Agreement. Said placement shall be a
part of the financial guarantees for the subdivision.
      (2)   Specifications. All lot corner pipes or iron rods shall be a
minimum of half an inch in diameter and eighteen inches in length, and shall be
inscribed with the registration number of the land surveyor making the survey.
All unmonumented quarter corners and section corners will be set by the county
surveyor.
   (H)   Resubdividing Combined Parcels. Any parcel of land, either platted or
unplatted, that has been combined for tax purposes or for other reasons cannot
be reseparated without a simple lot division, rural subdivision or plat
approved by the City Council in a manner prescribed in this title.
   (I)   Building and Occupancy Permits.
      (1)   Compliance with Provisions. No building permits will be issued by
the City for the construction of any building or structure on any lot in the
“subdivision” as defined herein which has been approved for platting until all
requirements of this title have been fully complied with and until utility and
street construction contracts have been awarded. No building permit shall be
issued for a lot not having the required right of way frontage on a public
street in the zoning district in which it is located unless the lot complies
with provisions of this code.
      (2)   Utilities Required. No occupancy shall be granted until public and/
or private utilities are available. Where building permits are issued as
provided in subsection A of this section, the building or units therein shall
not be occupied (except model homes) until said building(s) are provided with
public sewer and water service, private services (gas, telephone, electricity,
sewer and water) and an improved public street to the extent that the street is
graded and gravel surfaced.
      (3)   Nonliability of City. Where a building permit is issued the person
to whom the permit is issued proceeds at his/her own risk and the City assumes
no obligation to provide public services within a specified time limit.
§ 153.09 MINIMUM DESIGN FEATURES.
   The design features set forth in this chapter are minimum requirements. The
city may impose additional or more stringent requirements concerning lot size,
streets and overall design as deemed appropriate considering the property being
subdivided. The city requires all construction to follow the engineering
specifications and standard detail plates provided by the City.
 
