RED LAKE FALLS, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 118, passed 12-17-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
 
Mayor                        Allen Bertilrud
Council                      Joyce Kalbakdalen
                            Kyle Thibert
                            Briana Ingraham
                            Neil Knaack
                            Cheryl Matzke
City Administrator-Treasurer Kathleen Schmitz
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
   
10.21   Hearings
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Red
Lake Falls City Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Red Lake
Falls, as presently established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other
legal actions at a future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also
be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This Red Lake Falls City
Code, as modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters
or sections.
      COUNTY. Red Lake County.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Administrator-Treasurer for public inspection. The City Administrator-Treasurer
shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code of
ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Administrator-Treasurer shall have the authority to administer
and enforce this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain
individuals designated within the code or by the Clerk or City Council shall
have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and
any person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Administrator-Treasurer and any city official or employee
designated by this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this
code may, with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any
property or resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises,
inspect or otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Administrator-Treasurer, peace officer or any employee or official charged with
the duty of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that
probable cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court
of competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before
conducting the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant
shall be only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as
a result of the warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable
cause to issue the warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable.
Probable cause does not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a
particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Administrator-Treasurer or any other authorized city
officer or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code
enacted to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being
complied with and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit
the inspection of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination
of any and all permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice
shall be given to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
the property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner,
resident or other person in control of the property shall be given an
opportunity to appear before the City Administrator-Treasurer to object to the
termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the City Administrator-
Treasurer’s decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or special
meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.21 HEARINGS.
   (A)   General. Unless otherwise provided in this code, or by law, every
public hearing required by law, ordinance or resolution to be held on any
legislative or administrative matter shall be conducted in accordance with this
section.
   (B)   Notice. Every hearing shall be preceded by ten days’ mailed notice to
all persons entitled thereto by law, ordinance or regulation unless only
published notice is required. The notice shall state the time, place and
purpose of the hearing. Failure to give the notice or defects in it shall not
invalidate the proceedings if a good faith effort has been made to comply with
this division (B).
   (C)   Conduct of hearing. At the hearing, each party in interest shall have
an opportunity to be heard and to present such evidence as is relevant to the
proceeding. The records to be made, and such other matters as it deems
necessary.
   (D)   Record. Upon the disposition of any matter after hearing, the Council
shall prepare a written summary of its findings and decisions and enter the
summary in the official Council minutes.
(2009 Code, § 100.05)
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create, by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
Such resolution may not proscribe administrative penalties for traffic offenses
designated by M.S. § 169.999.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Administrator-Treasurer
or other person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this
code, in a written notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to
the person who is alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice
may request the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation
directly to the City Administrator-Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of
the violation. A sample notice is contained in the Appendix A to this chapter.
In the sole discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged
violation, the time for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether
or not requested by the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition
to the administrative penalty, the person giving notice may request in the
notice to the alleged violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the
situation resulting in the alleged violation and may provide that if the
alleged violator corrects the situation resulting in the alleged violation
within the time specified in the notice, that the payment of the administrative
penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of
this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNCIL
      
31.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
      
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   PERSONNEL POLICY
      
34.   ABANDONED PROPERTY
      
35.   ELECTIONS
      
36.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
37.   PUBLIC PROPERTY AND STREET IMPROVEMENTS
      
38.   COMMUNITY HALL
      
39.   PERMIT AND LICENSE FEES
CHAPTER 30: COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Election
   
30.02   Meetings
   
30.03   Presiding officer
   
30.04   Minutes
   
30.05   Order of business
   
30.06   Quorum and voting
   
30.07   Ordinances, resolutions, motions, petitions and communications
   
30.08   Committees
   
30.09   Suspension or amendment of rules
   
30.10   Compensation of Mayor and Council members
   
30.11   Combination of the offices of City Administrator and City Treasurer
   
30.12   Audit of financial affairs
   
30.13   City Administrator position
§ 30.01 ELECTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 205.07, as it may be amended from time to time,
commencing with the 1992 election, election of the City Council shall be held
annually on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November of each even-
numbered year.
   (B)   Whereby it is necessary to adjust terms of office to coincide with
state and national elections, the city hereby adopts the following terms for
the City Mayor and Council members:
      (1)   Mayor: shall be elected in fall of 1991, and serve from January 1,
1992 to December 31, 1994 and every two years thereafter;
      (2)   Council member of the First Ward: shall be elected in the fall of
1991, and serve from January 1, 1992 to December 31, 1996 and every four years
thereafter;
      (3)   Council member of the Second Ward: shall be elected in the fall of
1991, and serve from January 1, 1992 to December 31, 1996 and every four years
thereafter;
      (4)   Council member of the Third Ward: shall be elected in the fall of
1991, and serve from January 1, 1992 to December 31, 1996 and every four years
thereafter;
      (5)   Council member at large: shall be elected in the fall of 1991, and
serve from January 1, 1992 to December 31, 1996 and ever four years thereafter;
and
      (6)   Council member at large: shall be elected in the fall of 1989, and
shall serve from January 1, 1990 to December 31, 1994 and every four years
thereafter.
(2009 Code, § 201.01) (Ord. passed 8-26-1991)
§ 30.02 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the
second and fourth Monday of each calendar month at 6:00 p.m. Any regular
meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next following business day
at the same time and place. All meetings, including special and adjourned
meetings, shall be held in the City Hall.
   (B)   Special meetings. The Mayor or any two members of the Council may call
a special meeting of the Council upon at least 24 hours’ written notice to each
member of the Council, as governed by statute. Similar notice shall be given to
Red Lake Falls Gazette and a copy shall be posted on the bulletin board at the
City Hall, at the City Administrator-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   Initial meeting. At the first regular Council meeting in January of
each year, the Council shall:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose one of the Council members as Vice Mayor, who shall perform
the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor from the
city or, in case of vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has been
appointed and qualifies; and
      (4)   Appoint such officers and employees and such members of boards,
commissions and committees as may be necessary.
   (D)   Public meetings. All Council meetings, including special and adjourned
meetings and meetings of Council committees, shall be open to public.
(2009 Code, § 201.02)
§ 30.03 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council.
In the absence of the Mayor, the Vice Mayor shall preside. In the absence of
both, the City Administrator-Treasurer shall call the meeting to order and
shall preside until the Council members present at the meeting choose one of
their number to act temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the
rules of procedure herein prescribed, and determine without debate, subject to
the final decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and
order, except as otherwise provided by the statute or by these rules, the
proceedings of the Council shall be conducted in accordance with Robert’s Rules
of Order, Revised.
   (C)   Appeal procedure. Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling
of the presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once
solely on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain his or
her ruling, but no other Council member shall participate in the discussion.
The appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present exclusive of the presiding officer.
   (D)   Rights of presiding officer. The presiding officer may make motions,
second motions or speak on any question, except that on demand of any Council
member, he or she shall vacate the chair and designate a Council member to
preside temporarily.
(2009 Code, § 201.03)
§ 30.04 MINUTES.
   (A)   Who keeps. Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the City
Administrator-Treasurer or, in his or her absence, by the Administrative
Assistant. In the absence of both, the presiding officer shall appoint a
Secretary Pro Tem. Ordinances, resolutions and claims need not be recorded in
full in the minutes if they appear in other permanent records of the City
Administrator-Treasurer and can be accurately identified from the description
given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten
form, shall be signed by the City Administrator-Treasurer, and copies thereof
shall be delivered to each Council member as soon as practicable after the
meeting. At the next regular Council meeting following such delivery, approval
of the minutes shall be considered by the Council. The minutes need not be read
aloud, but the presiding officer shall call for any additions or corrections.
If there is no objection to a proposed addition or correction, it may be made
without a vote of the Council. If there is an objection, the Council shall vote
upon the addition or correction. If there are no additions or corrections, the
minutes shall stand approved.
(2009 Code, § 201.04)
§ 30.05 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the Council shall convene at the
time and place appointed therefor. Council business shall be conducted in the
following order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Approval of minutes;
      (4)   Public hearings;
      (5)   Petitions, requests and communications;
      (6)   Ordinances and resolutions;
      (7)   Reports of officers, boards and committees;
      (8)   Unfinished business;
      (9)   New business;
      (10)   Miscellaneous; and
      (11)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Varying order. The order of business may be varied by the presiding
officer, but all public hearings shall be held at the time specified in the
notice of hearing.
   (C)   Agenda. The City Administrator-Treasurer shall prepare an agenda of
business for each regular Council meeting and file a copy in his or her office
not later than four days prior to the meeting. The agenda shall be prepared in
accordance with the order of business and copies thereof shall be delivered to
each Council member and to the Red Lake Falls Gazette as far in advance of the
meeting as time for preparation will permit. No item of business shall be
considered unless it appears on the agenda for the meeting or is approved for
addition to the agenda by a unanimous vote of the Council members present.
(2009 Code, § 201.05)
§ 30.06 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum. At all Council meetings, a majority of all the Council members
elected shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from time to time and the Council may punish
nonattendance by a fine not exceeding $50 for each absence from any meeting
unless a reasonable excuse is offered.
   (B)   Voting. The votes of the members on any question may be taken in any
manner which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes
of the members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote
of each member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except for
payments of judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statute. If any member is
present but does not vote, the minutes, as to his or her name, shall be marked
“Present-Not Voting.” No member shall vote on any appropriation which shall
directly benefit that member.
   (C)   Vote required. A majority vote of all members of the Council shall be
necessary for approval of any ordinance unless a larger number is required by
statute. Except as otherwise provided by statutes, a majority vote of a quorum
shall prevail in all other cases.
(2009 Code, § 201.06)
§ 30.07 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Reading. Every ordinance and resolution shall be presented in writing.
Every ordinance shall receive two readings before the Council prior to final
adoption, but shall not be read twice at the same meeting unless the rules are
suspended for that purpose. An ordinance or resolution need not be read in full
unless a member of the Council requests such a reading.
   (B)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the City
Administrator-Treasurer, and filed by him or her in the ordinance or resolution
book. Proof of publication of every ordinance shall be attached and filed with
the ordinance.
   (C)   Repeals and amendments. Every ordinance or resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or a section or division thereof shall give
the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or code number of the
ordinance or solution to be repealed in whole or in part. Each ordinance or
resolution amending and existing ordinance or resolution or part thereof shall
set forth in full each amended section or division as it will read with the
amendment.
   (D)   Motions, petitions, communications. Every motion shall be stated in
full before it is submitted to a vote by the presiding officer and shall be
recorded in the minutes. Every petition or other communication addressed to the
Council shall be in writing and shall be read in full upon presentation to the
Council unless the Council dispenses with the reading. Each petition or other
communication shall be recorded in the minutes by title and filed with the
minutes in the office of the City Administrator- Treasurer.
(2009 Code, § 201.07)
§ 30.08 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committees designated. 
      (1)   There shall be the following standing committees:
         (a)   Finance Committee;
         (b)   Personnel Committee;
         (c)   Parks, Trails and Recreation Committee;
         (d)   Economic Development Commission;
         (e)   Planning, Zoning, Streets and Sidewalk Committee;
         (f)   HRA Board;
         (g)   Airport Committee;
         (h)   Safety - Grounds and Buildings Committee;
         (i)   NW Regional Library;
         (j)   Red Lake County Affordable Housing; and
         (k)   Red Lake River Corridor Committee.
      (2)   Committee members shall be appointed by the Mayor at the first
regular Council meeting in January of each year.
   (B)   Membership. Each committee shall consist of two members of the
Council, and Mayor, and the Chairperson of each committee shall be designated
by the Mayor. Each committee member shall serve as appointed unless excused by
a majority of the members of the Council. If the committee does not provide
otherwise, committee meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson. The
same notice shall be given of committee meetings as for special meetings of the
Council, except that personal notice need not be given to each member if the
committee so decides.
   (C)   Referral and reports. Any matter brought before the Council for
consideration may be referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate
committee or to a special committee appointed by him or her for a written
report and recommendation before it is considered by the Council as a whole.
Each committee report shall be signed by a majority of the members and shall be
filed with the City Administrator-Treasurer prior to the Council meeting at
which it is to be submitted. Minority reports may be submitted. Each committee
shall act promptly and faithfully on any matter referred to it.
(2009 Code, § 201.08)
§ 30.09 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended only by a two-thirds vote of the members
present and voting.
(2009 Code, § 201.09)
§ 30.10 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2017, the salary of the Mayor shall be $300 per
month ($3,600 per year) and the salary of each Council member shall be $210 per
month ($2,520 per year).
   (B)   Such pay shall be to perform the duties of office, which shall include
the following:
      (1)   Attending the twice-monthly regular Council meetings;
      (2)   Attending informational meetings for which they are not
specifically appointed, but attend for informational purposes;
      (3)   Attending public hearings which are normally scheduled to coincide
with regular Council meetings; and
      (4)   Representing the city at social, civic and developmental programs
of concern to the city.
   (C)   (1)   Special meetings. 
         (a)   Mayor and Council members will also be paid $50 for the
following types of special meetings:
            1.   Special Council meetings;
            2.   Standing and temporary committee meetings for Council persons
appointed specifically to that committee; and
            3.   Formal presentations or speeches whereby minimal time is
expended preparing or presenting information.
         (b)   The remainder of the ordinance from which this section is
derived is hereby adopted in its entirety, by reference, as though repeated
verbatim herein.
      (2)   Expenses incurred in duty away from the city. The city will pay for
expenses away from the city as follows:
         (a)   Overnight lodging, upon submittal of receipt or verification of
expense;
         (b)   Meals will be paid on the following scale: breakfast, up to a
maximum of $9; lunch, up to a maximum of $12; supper, up to a maximum of $18;
         (c)   Miscellaneous expenses such as parking, taxis, road tolls and
the like, actual expenses incurred upon submittal of receipt or verification of
expenses;
         (d)   Automobile mileage is paid at the prevailing IRS rate. City
officials will make a special effort to car pool when attending out of town
activities representing the city;
         (e)   Airfare may be reimbursed upon submittal of receipt or
verification of expense; and
         (f)   Pay for out of town meetings will be made at the rate of $50 for
meetings of four hours or less and $100 for meetings of more than four hours.
(2009 Code, § 201.10)
§ 30.11 COMBINATION OF THE OFFICES OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR AND CITY
TREASURER.
   Pursuant to the authority granted in M.S.§ 412.02, Subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time, the offices of City Administrator and City Treasurer
for the city are hereby combined into the office of City Administrator-
Treasurer.
(2009 Code, § 201.11)
§ 30.12 AUDIT OF FINANCIAL AFFAIRS.
   There shall be an audit of the city’s financial affairs by the public
examiner or a public accountant in accordance with minimum auditing procedures
prescribed by the public examiner. Such audit must be undertaken yearly.
(2009 Code, § 201.12)
§ 30.13 CITY ADMINISTRATOR POSITION.
   (A)   Creation. The Office of City Administrator-Treasurer shall be combined
into a new office entitled City Administrator. The duties of the Administrator
of the city shall include the duties of the City Administrator-Treasurer as
delineated in the M.S. §§ 412.141 and 412.151, as it may be amended from time
to time, and such other appropriate duties as may be imposed upon the
Administrator by the Mayor and City Council hereinafter referred to as City
Council.
   (B)   Appointment. The City Administrator-Treasurer shall be appointed by a
majority vote of the City Council and shall serve at the pleasure of the
Council. Removal from the position shall be by affirmative vote of the majority
of the members of the City Council. The selection of the City Administrator
shall be based on education and administrative experience, and shall have
experience and knowledge in the area of government and/or business
administration.
   (C)   Contract. The City Council may enter into such employment agreement
with the City Administrator-Treasurer as it shall deem necessary or desirable
in order to further implement the appointment of the City Administrator-
Treasurer.
   (D)   Duties. The City Administrator-Treasurer shall be the Chief
Administrative officer for the city and he or she shall be responsible to the
City Council for the proper administration of all affairs of the city, which
duties shall include the following:
      (1)   Direct and perform the actual day-to-day supervision and control of
the administrative affairs of the city;
      (2)   Compile and prepare all necessary data and information to aid the
City Council in making decisions, assist the City Council in coordinating,
administering and implementing decisions in regard to requests and problems of
municipal concerns; research and assist the City Council in developing and
recommending solutions thereto coordinating efforts through directives to other
departments, other agencies and the general public;
      (3)   Coordinate enforcement of all laws of the state, city ordinances
and resolutions in cooperation with the city’s designated law enforcement
official, and other appropriate department heads of the city;
      (4)   Advise and report to the City Council when requested on matters of
governmental and public policy and to that end keep informed of the latest
administrative practices;
      (5)   Prepare and recommend to the City Council a single consolidated
budget including statements relating to projected revenue, proposed sources of
revenue and all proposed expenditures to be made and obligations incurred by
the city in the forthcoming fiscal year. The city department heads will work
with the City Administrator-Treasurer in the preparation of the proposed
budgets;
      (6)   Administer all capital improvement projects and services programs
as approved by the City Council in conjunction with the appropriate department
heads. The City Council may, in its sole discretion, delegate the
administrative authority to other department heads as it deems appropriate;
      (7)   In conjunction with the City Council and the appropriate department
heads, establish such administrative policies and procedures as may be
necessary to ensure the proper and efficient operation of all departments and
divisions of the city. The City Administrator-Treasurer shall, upon prior
Council direction or approval, issue administrative orders to carry out such
policies and procedures consistent with state law, city ordinances and Council
policy;
      (8)   Recommend to the City Council the approval or disapproval of all
applications for licenses or permits, in conjunction with the appropriate
department heads, after an appropriate investigation of the application;
      (9)   Stay abreast of development in the public administrative field and
cooperate with governmental units and municipalities on matters of mutual
interest;
      (10)   Supervise/manage the conduct of local elections in accordance with
the prescribed laws and regulations;
      (11)   Perform economic development and grant writing activities as
assigned by the City Council;
      (12)   Attend professional development conferences and seminars in an
effort to stay abreast of current trends in government and business, with prior
Council approval; and
      (13)   Performs such other duties as may be required by the City Council.
   (E)   Personnel. 
      (1)   The City Administrator-Treasurer shall be the personnel officer for
the city and responsible for the implementation of the city personnel policies.
The City Administrator-Treasurer, together with the appropriate department
head, shall interview all probationary permanent full-time employees, and shall
make recommendations to the City Council for their hiring, promotion, demotion
or suspension. Should a department head suspend an employee upon an emergency
basis he or she shall notify the City Administrator-Treasurer within 12 hours
of the suspension and the Administrator shall then notify the Council and shall
make recommendation to the Council as set forth above. All final determinations
with regard to personnel policies shall be made by the City Council.
      (2)   The Administrator shall be responsible for keeping the City Council
informed of personnel matters occurring within the city. The department heads
and supervisor shall keep the City Administrator-Treasurer informed of current
issues and problems within their respective departments so that he or she may
adequately advise the City Council.
   (F)   Purchasing. The Administrator shall exercise control over the fiscal
expenditures of all departments and divisions of the city and such
appropriations as appear in the annual city budget.
   (G)   City Administrator, also City Clerk-Treasurer. The City Administrator-
Treasurer shall perform all duties of the City Clerk and the City Treasurer as
required by law where the signatures of the City Clerk or City Treasurer is
required by law on any document, the execution thereof by the City
Administrator-Treasurer shall be deemed required execution thereof by the City
Clerk or City Treasurer.
   (H)   Meetings. The City Administrator-Treasurer shall attend and
participate in discussions at all meetings of the City Council and other
official bodies as directed by the City Council. The City Administrator-
Treasurer shall represent the city at official functions as directed by the
City Council and maintain good public relations with the citizens of the
community.
(2009 Code, § 201.13)
CHAPTER 31: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
Police Department
   
31.01   Establishment
   
31.02   Chief of Police
   
31.03   Duties of police
   
31.04   Uniforms and badge
   
31.05   Contract with the county in lieu of City Police Department
Fire Department
   
31.20   Fire Department continued
   
31.21   Appointment
   
31.22   Duties of Chief
   
31.23   Records
   
31.24   Practice drills
   
31.25   Assistant Chief
   
31.26   Firefighters
   
31.27   Fire Wardens
   
31.28   Loss of membership
   
31.29   Compensation
   
31.30   Minimum pay
   
31.31   Present members
   
31.32   Relief association
   
31.33   Interference with Department
   
31.34   Authority to furnish fire protection outside city limits
   
31.35   Officer in command deputized
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   A Police Department is hereby continued.
   (B)   The head of the department shall be known as the Chief of Police and
the number of additional members of the Department, together with their ranks
and titles, shall be determined by the Council by resolution. The compensation
to be paid members of the Police Department shall be fixed by the Council.
Members of the Department shall be appointed by the City Council.
(2009 Code, § 202.01)
§ 31.02 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall have supervision and control of the Police
Department and its members. He or she shall be responsible to the Council for
law enforcement and for property of the city used by the Department. He or she
shall be responsible for the proper training and discipline of the members of
the Department. He or she shall be responsible for the keeping of adequate
records and he or she shall report to the Council on the needs of the
Department and its work. Every member of the Department subordinate to the
Chief shall obey the instructions of the chief and any superior officer. The
Council shall designate one of the police officers as acting Chief, who shall
have all the powers and duties of the Chief during his or her absence or
disability.
(2009 Code, § 202.02)
§ 31.03 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department shall enforce the ordinances and laws
applicable to the city, bring violators before the county court, and make
complaints for offenses coming to their knowledge. Members of the Police
Department shall serve processes on behalf of the city and shall serve such
notices as may be required by the Council or other authority. When the city is
not a party to the proceedings involved in the process or notice, the officer
shall collect the same fees as provided by law for town constables. All such
fees shall be paid into the city treasury.
(2009 Code, § 202.03)
§ 31.04 UNIFORMS AND BADGE.
   Each member of the Department shall, while in duty, wear a suitable badge
and uniform furnished by the city, except that the Chief may authorize the
performance of specific duties while not in uniform. When a member terminates
his or her membership in the Department, he or she shall immediately deliver to
the city his or her badge, uniform and all other property of the city in his or
her possession.
(2009 Code, § 202.04)
§ 31.05 CONTRACT WITH THE COUNTY IN LIEU OF CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   In lieu of a city established Police Department, the city may contract with
the county for law enforcement services.
(2009 Code, § 202.05)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.20 FIRE DEPARTMENT CONTINUED.
   There is hereby continued in this city a Volunteer Fire Department
consisting of a Chief, two assistant Chiefs, a Fire Marshal and not fewer than
20 nor more than 30 firefighters.
(2009 Code, § 203.01)
§ 31.21 APPOINTMENT.
   The Chief, the Assistant Chief and firefighters shall be appointed by the
Council. In making such appointments, the Council shall take into consideration
recommendations of the members of the Department. Each officer and every other
member of the Department except a probationary firefighter shall serve during
good behavior and may be removed by the Council only for cause after a public
hearing.
(2009 Code, § 203.02)
§ 31.22 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Chief shall have control over all the firefighting apparatus and shall
be solely responsible for its care and condition. He or she shall make a
semiannual report to the Council at its meeting in March and September, on the
condition of the equipment and needs of the Fire Department. He or she may
submit additional reports and recommendations at any meeting of the Council,
and he or she shall report each suspension by him or her of a member of the
Fire Department at the first meeting of the Council following such suspension.
He or she shall be responsible for the proper training and discipline of the
members for refusal or neglect to obey orders pending final action by the
Council or his or her discharge or retention.
(2009 Code, § 203.04)
§ 31.23 RECORDS.
   The Chief shall keep in convenient form a complete record of all fires. Such
a record shall include the time of the alarm, location of fire, cause of fire
(if known), type of building, name of owner and tenant, purpose for which
occupied, value of building and contents, members of the Department responding
to the alarm, and such other information as he or she may deem advisable or as
may be required from time to time by the Council or State Insurance Department.
(2009 Code, § 203.05)
§ 31.24 PRACTICE DRILLS.
   The Chief shall, when the weather permits, hold a monthly practice drill of
at least one hour duration for the Fire Department and shall give or arrange
for instruction to the firefighters in approved methods of firefighting and
fire prevention.
(2009 Code, § 203.06)
§ 31.25 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence or disability of the Chief, the Assistant Chief shall perform
all the functions and exercise all of the authority of the Chief.
(2009 Code, § 203.07)
§ 31.26 FIREFIGHTERS.
   The Assistant Chief and firefighters shall be able-bodied and not less than
18 years of age. They shall become members of the Fire Department only after a
six months’ probationary period. The Council may require that each candidate,
before he or she may become a probationary firefighter, must satisfy certain
minimum requirements of height, weight, education and any other qualifications
which may be specified by the Council and that he or she must pass
satisfactorily a mental and physical examination.
(2009 Code, § 203.08)
§ 31.27 FIRE WARDENS.
   The City Council may by resolution provide for the appointment of one or
more fire wardens for the city. The Fire Warden shall act and serve at the
discretion of the City Council.
(2009 Code, § 203.09)
§ 31.28 LOSS OF MEMBERSHIP.
   Absence of any firefighter from three consecutive drills or calls unless
excused by the Chief shall be cause for removal from the Department.
(2009 Code, § 203.10)
§ 31.29 COMPENSATION.
   The members and officers of the fire department shall receive compensation
as follows:
   (A)   Chief: $2,400 per year at the rate of $200 per month beginning March
1, 2013 and: $7 per combination drill and meeting; and $7 per hour for each
fire;
   (B)   Janitor: $2,400 per year at the rate of $200 per month beginning
February 1, 2013;
   (C)   Firefighters: $14 per combination drill and meeting; $7 per hour for
each fire;
   (D)   Probationary firefighters: $7 per combination practice drill and
meeting; $7 per hour for each fire; and
   (E)   Fire Marshal: $0 per year.
(2009 Code, § 203.11)
§ 31.30 MINIMUM PAY.
   In computing for fires and practice drills, one hour shall be considered as
the minimum to be paid to any firefighter or officer.
(2009 Code, § 203.12)
§ 31.31 PRESENT MEMBERS.
   No person who is a member of the Fire Department at the time of the adoption
of this subchapter shall be required to serve a probationary period before
becoming a firefighter.
(2009 Code, § 203.13)
§ 31.32 RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   The members and officers of the Fire Department may organize themselves into
a Firefighters’ Relief Association in accordance with law.
(2009 Code, § 203.14)
§ 31.33 INTERFERENCE WITH DEPARTMENT.
   No person shall give or make, or cause to be given or made, a fire alarm
without probable cause, or neglect or refuse to obey any reasonable order of
the Chief at a fire, or interfere with the Fire Department in the discharge of
its duties.
(2009 Code, § 203.15)
§ 31.34 AUTHORITY TO FURNISH FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Authority. The City Council shall have the authority to enter into
contracts with property owners, associations of property owners, insurance
companies and political subdivisions for the purpose of providing fire
protection on property owned, leased or represented by such person, persons
organization, residents or citizens of such subdivisions.
   (B)   Payment for protection services. Payment for fire protection outside
the city limits shall be the contract rate or a rate prescribed by the City
Council. The rate to be charged shall be that which is fixed by the City
Council.
   (C)   Protection of city. Fire apparatus shall not be sent to a location
outside the city limits if the Fire Chief or other individual in charge of the
Fire Department at the time of the call or alarm decided that such apparatus is
needed for local services.
(2009 Code, § 203.16)
§ 31.35 OFFICER IN COMMAND DEPUTIZED.
   The officer in command at any fire shall have the power to arrest and cause
the immediate removal of any disorderly or suspicious person at any fire or any
person caught in the act of stealing or unlawfully removing property at such
fire.
(2009 Code, § 203.17)
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.01   Establishment of Commission
   
32.02   Composition
   
32.03   Organization, meetings and the like
   
32.04   Powers and duties of the Commission
   
32.05   Zoning ordinances; public hearings
   
32.06   Plats; approvals
Emergency Management
   
32.20   Policy and purpose
   
32.21   Definitions
   
32.22   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
32.23   Powers and duties of Director
   
32.24   Local emergencies
   
32.25   Emergency regulations
   
32.26   Emergency management a government function
   
32.27   Participation in labor disputes or politics
Ambulance Department
   
32.35   Definitions
   
32.36   Establishment
   
32.37   Licensing
   
32.38   Standards
   
32.39   Contract with nonprofit organization in lieu of Ambulance Department
 
   
32.99   Penalty
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
   A City Planning Commission is hereby established. The Commission shall be
the City Planning Agency authorized by M.S. § 462.354, Subd. 1, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(2009 Code, § 204.01)
§ 32.02 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   Membership. The City Planning Commission shall consist of seven
members. The City Engineer and the City Attorney shall be members ex-officio
and the City Council shall select one member of the Commission from its own
membership. The other four members shall be appointed and may be removed by the
Council.
   (B)   Terms, vacancies, oath. Of the members of the Commission first
appointed, one shall be appointed for a term of one year, one for a term of two
years, one for a term of three years, and one for a term of four years. Their
successors shall be appointed for terms of four years. Both original and
successive appointees shall hold their offices until their successors are
appointed and qualified. The terms of ex-officio members shall correspond to
their respective official tenures. Vacancies during the term shall be filled by
the Council for the unexpired portion of the term. Every appointed member shall
before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties take oath that he or
she will faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office. All members
shall serve without compensation.
(2009 Code, § 204.02)
§ 32.03 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Officers. The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its
appointed members for a term of one year; and the Commission may create and
fill such other offices as it may determine. The City Administrator shall act
as Secretary of the Planning Commission, but he or she shall not be a member.
   (B)   Meetings, records, reports. The Commission shall hold at least one
regular meeting every four months. It shall adopt rules for the transaction of
business and shall keep a record of its resolution, transactions and findings,
which record shall be a public record. On or before February 15 of each year,
the Commission shall submit to the City Council a report of its work during the
preceding calendar year. Expenditures of the Commission shall be within amounts
appropriated for the purpose by the City Council.
(2009 Code, § 204.03)
§ 32.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission shall have the powers and duties given planning
agencies generally by law. The Commission shall also exercise the duties
conferred upon it by this subchapter and by the Council. After the Commission
has prepared and adopted a comprehensive plan, the Commission shall
periodically but at least once every five years, review the comprehensive plan,
any ordinances and any capital improvement program the Council has adopted to
implement the plan. After such review, it shall, to the extent it deems
necessary, revise the comprehensive plan, adopt the amendments or the new
comprehensive plan, and recommend it to the Council in accordance with law.
Similarly, after such review, it shall recommend to the Council any amendments
it deems desirable to the capital improvement program and any ordinances
implementing the plan.
(2009 Code, § 204.04)
§ 32.05 ZONING ORDINANCES; PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   No zoning ordinance or amendment shall be adopted by the Council until a
public hearing has been held thereon by the Planning Commission upon notice as
provided in M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
(2009 Code, § 204.05)
§ 32.06 PLATS; APPROVALS.
   Any subdivision plat submitted to the Council for approval shall, prior to
final approval, be referred to the Planning Commission for review and
recommendation. Any plat so referred shall be returned to the Council by the
Commission with its recommendation. Any plat so referred shall be returned to
the Council by the Commission with its recommendations within 30 days, and
failure of the Commission to report within that period is deemed to have
satisfied the requirements of this section.
(2009 Code, § 204.06)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 32.20 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to ensure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 32.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. Emergency
management includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 32.22 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary as established by
the City Council and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration and
operation of the emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction
and control of the Council. The emergency management organization shall conform
to and be consistent with, where applicable, all state and federal
requirements, including the National Incident Management System framework found
at 44 C.F.R. part 201, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 32.23 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city’s emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required
on a volunteer basis to carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To
the extent that emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city
department or agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments
or agencies and shall be under the administration and control of the department
or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting
training programs as required to assure emergency operational capability in the
several services as provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 32.24 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City
Administrator-Treasurer.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.25 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Administrator-Treasurer.
A copy shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business
hours. Notice of the existence of these regulations and their availability for
inspection at the City Administrator-Treasurer’s Office shall be conspicuously
posted at the front of the city hall or other headquarters of the city or at
other places in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the
resolution. By resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.37, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.26 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this resolution or under the worker’s compensation
law, or under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any
benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 32.27 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
AMBULANCE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE. A vehicle designed or intended to be used in providing
transportation of wounded, injured, sick, invalid, incapacitated persons or
expectant mothers.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE. The transportation for a wounded, injured, sick, invalid
or incapacitated person or expectant mother which is regularly provided, or
offered to the provided, to the public by a public or private agency or by any
person.
   LICENSE. The authority granted by the State Board of Health for the
operation of ambulance services.
   OPERATOR. Those persons who are qualified under the laws of the state to
operate an ambulance service.
(2009 Code, § 208.01)
§ 32.36 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Council may, by resolution, establish an Ambulance Department. The
Ambulance Department is hereby granted authority to contract to provide
ambulance and emergency service outside the city if so required.
(2009 Code, § 208.02)
§ 32.37 LICENSING.
   The Ambulance Department, or, if a contract is made with a nonprofit
organization under §
32.39, then such organization shall provide ambulance services to meet the
requirements of this subchapter and licensing requirements of M.S. § 144E.10 et
seq., as it may be amended from time to time.
(2009 Code, § 208.03)
§ 32.38 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Qualifications. Any operator, driver or assistant accompanying such
operator or driver shall possess a current certification as required by state
statutes.
   (B)   Equipment. Every ambulance, when in service, shall be equipped with
and carry the minimal equipment recommended by the American College of
Surgeons.
   (C)   Service hours. All ambulances offering emergency services shall
operate on a 24-hour basis every day of the year.
   (D)   Automatic safety equipment. Every ambulance shall conform to any
statutes of regulatory authority vested in the Department of Highway concerning
automotive equipment and safety requirements.
   (E)   Driver’s license. Any person driving an ambulance shall have, in his
or her possession, a valid Minnesota driver’s license.
   (F)   Police emergency vehicle. Nothing in this section shall prevent the
operation of a police emergency vehicle.
(2009 Code, § 208.04)
§ 32.39 CONTRACT WITH NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION IN LIEU OF AMBULANCE DEPARTMENT.
   In lieu of a city established Ambulance Department, the city may contract
with any nonprofit organization within the city organized to operate ambulances
and provide ambulance services.
(2009 Code, § 208.05)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any
regulation adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other
than official acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 208.06)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL POLICY
Section
   
33.01   Adopted
§ 33.01 ADOPTED.
   The personnel policy was removed from the ordinance book and a separate
personnel policy document was approved on January 11, 2016. It is available in
the City Administrator-Treasurer’s office.
(2009 Code, § 206)
CHAPTER 34: ABANDONED PROPERTY
Section
   
34.01   Abandoned motor vehicles
   
34.02   Other abandoned property
§ 34.01 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Impoundment and sale. The City Police Department or the County
Sheriff’s Department shall take into custody and impound any abandoned motor
vehicle as defined by M.S. § 168B.011, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time
to time. It shall give notice of the taking as provided by law and if the owner
or any ringleader does not reclaim the vehicle within the period provided by
law, it shall provide for the sale of the vehicle to the highest bidder at a
public auction or sale following two weeks’ published notice.
   (B)   Summary action in certain cases. When an abandoned motor vehicle is
more than seven model years of age, is lacking vital component parts, and does
not display a license plate currently valid in the state or any other state or
foreign country, it shall immediately be eligible for sale under division (A)
above and shall not be subject to the notification, reclamation or title
provisions of M.S. §§ 168B.01 to 168B.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of the sale of an abandoned
motor vehicle shall be placed in the General Fund of the city. If the former or
entitled lien holder makes application and furnishes satisfactory proof of
ownership or lien interest within 90 days of the sale, he or she shall be paid
the proceeds of the sale of the vehicle less the cost of towing, preserving and
storing the vehicle and all administrative notice and publication costs
incurred in its handling.
(2009 Code, § 207.01)
§ 34.02 OTHER ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Procedure. All other property lawfully coming into the possession of
the city shall be disposed of as provided in this section.
   (B)   Storage. The department of the city acquiring possession of the
property shall arrange for its storage. If city facilities for storage are
unavailable or inadequate, the department may arrange for storage at privately
owned facilities.
   (C)   Claim by owner. The owner may claim the property by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the city any storage or maintenance
costs incurred by it. A receipt for the property shall be obtained upon release
to the owner.
   (D)   Sale. If the property remains unclaimed in the possession of the city
for 90 days, the property shall be sold to the highest bidder at a public
auction conducted by the County Sheriff or designated official of the city
after two weeks’ published notice setting forth the time and place of the sale
and the property to be sold.
   (E)   Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of the sale shall be placed in
the General Fund of the city. If the former owner makes application and
furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the sale, he or
she shall be paid the proceeds of the sale of his or her property less the
costs of storage and the proportionate part of the cost of published notice and
other costs of the sale.
(2009 Code, § 207.02)
CHAPTER 35: ELECTIONS
Section
   
35.01   Election wards
§ 35.01 ELECTION WARDS.
   The city is hereby divided into three election wards, to be described as
follows.
   (A)   First Ward: all that part of the city which lies east of Marshall
Avenue N.E. beginning at the northerly city limits and Marshall Avenue N.E.
thence along the centerline of the Red Lake River northerly and easterly to the
east city limits; thence southerly along the east city limits to the center
line of the Clearwater River; thence westerly and northerly along the
centerline of the Clearwater River to Bridge Street N.E. thence northerly along
the centerline of Marshall Avenue N.E. to the point of beginning.
   (B)   Second Ward: all that part of the city which lies north of Fourth
Street South and is bounded by the west city limits and on the north by the
centerline of the Red Lake River and the north boundary of the city limits
extended easterly to Marshall Avenue N.E. thence south along the centerline of
Marshall Avenue N.E. to the centerline of Bridge Street N.E.; thence westerly
to the centerline of the Clearwater River to the centerline of Fourth Street
S.E. and all that part of the city which lies south of 4th Street South and
west of Falls Avenue.
   (C)   Third Ward: all that part of the city which lies south of Fourth
Street and east of Falls Avenue in the city.
(2009 Code, § 209.01)
CHAPTER 36: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
   
36.01   Payment of fines, forfeitures and penalties into city treasury
§ 36.01 PAYMENT OF FINES, FORFEITURES AND PENALTIES INTO CITY TREASURY.
   All fines, forfeitures and penalties recovered for the violation of any
ordinance of the city shall be paid into the City Treasury by the court or
officer receiving such moneys. Payment shall be made in the manner at the time
provided by applicable law.
(2009 Code, § 210.01)
CHAPTER 37: PUBLIC PROPERTY AND STREET IMPROVEMENTS
Section
Street Excavations
   
37.01   Permit required
   
37.02   Application and regulations
   
37.03   Bond
   
37.04   General regulations for excavations
   
37.05   Refilling excavations
   
37.06   Map of subsurface installations
   
37.07   Regulations for construction and maintenance of driveways and culverts
Assessable Current Services; Obligations of Property Owners and Occupants
   
37.20   Definition
   
37.21   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish
   
37.22   Weed elimination
   
37.23   Public health and safety hazards
   
37.24   Installation and repair of water service lines
   
37.25   Repair of sidewalks and alleys
   
37.26   Street sprinkling, street flushing, tree care and the like
   
37.27   Personal liability
Local Improvement Policy/City Assessment Manual
   
37.40   City Administrator-Treasurer to prepare assessment manual
   
37.41   General policy statement
   
37.42   Improvements and maintenance costs eligible for special assessment
   
37.43   Initiation of public improvement projects
   
37.44   Public improvement procedure
   
37.45   Financing of public improvements
   
37.46   General assessment policies applicable to all types of improvements
   
37.47   Methods of assessment
   
37.48   Standards for public improvement projects
   
37.49   Reassessment policies
   
37.50   Assessment computations
   
37.51   Deferment of special assessments
   
37.52   Federal, state and county aid use
STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 37.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, except an authorized city employee or contractor performing work
under a contract with the city, shall make any excavation in a street, alley,
sidewalk or public ground without first having secured a permit therefor from
the City Administrator’s Office. The fee for such a permit shall be $10 for
each location covered by the permit, but no fee shall be required for an
excavation made pursuant to a permit for sewer or water construction.
(2009 Code, § 301.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.02 APPLICATION AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Administrator’s Office shall prepare the necessary forms and
permits required under §
37.01. He or she shall also prepare such rules and regulations with respect to
excavations as he or she finds necessary to protect the public from injury,
prevent damage to public or private property, and minimize interference with
the public use of streets, alleys, sidewalks and public grounds. Any person
making an excavation covered by this section shall comply with such rules and
regulations.
(2009 Code, § 301.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.03 BOND.
   (A)   Any permittee except a public utility corporation or a bonded plumber
shall file with the City Administrator’s office a corporate surety bond in the
amount of $10,000 or the estimated repair cost, whichever is greater
conditioned that the permittee will:
      (1)   Perform work in connection with the excavation in accordance with
applicable ordinances and regulations;
      (2)   Indemnify the city and hold it harmless from all damage caused in
the execution of such work; and
      (3)   Pay all costs and damages suffered by the city by reason of the
failure of the permittee to observe the terms of applicable ordinances and
regulations or because of negligence in the execution of the work.
   (B)   The bond shall be approved as to form and legality by the City
Attorney.
   (C)   Any permittee except a public utility corporation shall furnish proof
that the permittee has in existence an insurance policy protecting him or her
from liability to the public, including the city, to an amount equal to the
maximum claim the city might be required to pay under M.S. Chapter 466, as it
may be amended from time to time.
(2009 Code, § 301.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.04 GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR EXCAVATIONS.
   Street opening shall be made in a manner that will cause the least
inconveniences to the public. Provisions shall be made for the passage of water
along the gutters and at least one-half of the traveled portion of the street
shall be left open and in good condition for the safe passage of vehicles. Open
excavations shall be guarded with substantial barriers and marked with red
flags and at night with red lights or flashing devices. Pipes or mains exposed
to freezing temperatures shall be protected so as to prevent freezing. Any
person responsible for exposing a city main or pipe so that it might be damaged
by freezing shall be liable to the city for all damages caused by such freezing
and all damages sustained by others such freezing for which the city may be
liable.
(2009 Code, § 301.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.05 REFILLING EXCAVATIONS.
   Every street excavation shall be refilled as soon as possible after the work
is completed and paving, sidewalks and appurtenances shall be replaced in at
least as good condition as before the excavation to the satisfaction of the
City Administrator or other designated person. All dirt and debris shall be
removed immediately. Any person who fails to comply with these requirements
within 24 hours after notice from the city shall be liable to the city for the
full cost incurred by the city in remedying the defect and restoring the
street, sidewalk, alley or public ground it its proper condition. The cost
shall be an obligation of the surety on the bond.
(2009 Code, § 301.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.06 MAP OF SUBSURFACE INSTALLATIONS.
   The City Hall maintains a map showing the location of all utility and other
installations made beneath the surface of any public street, grounds or right-
of-way. The information on the map shall be sufficiently complete and accurate
to permit anyone making an excavation in a public place having any underground
installation to avoid damage to any existing underground installation and to
properly locate any new underground facilities and shall be recorded on the map
as soon as practicable upon the issuance of an excavation permit or the
completion of a contract for the installation of city underground
installations.
(2009 Code, § 301.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.07 REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF DRIVEWAYS AND CULVERTS.
   (A)   All construction of driveways, approaches, culverts, and other
activities in city rights-of-way undertaken after the date of enactment of this
section, must comply with the terms of this section.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote the public safety,
the general welfare of the community and to enforce the goals and policies of
the city. This section applies to the construction or modification of private
driveways located within the city that provide access to buildings or lots
constructed or to be constructed after the effective date of this section.
   (C)   Definitions.
      DRIVEWAY. A road or path giving access from a public highway, street or
road to one or more lots, dwelling units, accessory buildings, or commercial
buildings located or to be constructed on adjacent lands.
      FIELD APPROACH. A path or access route from a public road to an adjacent
field or parcel.
   (D)   Permit required.
      (1)   That all persons seeking to construct a new driveway, new field
approach or to convert an existing field approach to a driveway must apply for
and obtain a driveway/culvert permit from the Red Lake Watershed District prior
to commencing construction. Only one driveway access or field approach to the
property shall be allowed without the permission of the city.
      (2)   All culverts shall be appropriately sized by the Red Lake Watershed
District. Flared ends may be required. All culverts shall be new and be
constructed of galvanized steel or double walled plastic piping which meets the
approval of the Red Lake Watershed District.
      (3)   No driveway/culvert permits shall be issued to persons not in
compliance with the terms of this section.
   (E)   Conditions of permit. No work under this provision is to be started
until the city and the Red Lake Watershed District or its designee approves the
access driveway or entrance permit application and all applicable fees and
escrow deposits have been received by the city. All work performed by the
applicant covered by this section shall comply with all specifications:
      (1)   Private driveways will be at least 20 feet wide, and not more than
28 feet wide, at the intersection with the city road. Only one driveway shall
be allowed per parcel, unless an additional driveway is specifically approved
by the city.
      (2)   All culverts shall be appropriately sized by the Red Lake Watershed
District. Flared ends may be required. All culverts shall be new and shall be
constructed of galvanized steel.
      (3)   The Red Lake Watershed District shall set the location, placement
specifications and invert of the culvert and shall specify construction
requirements.
      (4)   The applicant shall allow such persons as the city or the Red Lake
Watershed District shall designate to enter onto their property to inspect
prior to the issuance of the permit, during the progress of the work and the
finished work.
      (5)   The applicant shall be responsible for the cost of and installation
of the culvert.
      (6)   Dirt or debris are not allowed on city streets/roads and shall be
removed within 24 hours of placement or notice to do so, whichever is earlier.
If an applicant fails to comply with this section, the city may remove the dirt
or debris itself and the cost may be assessed to the offending property owner
pursuant to M.S. § 429.101.
      (7)   The roadside must be cleaned after work is completed and restored
to a condition similar to that prior to construction.
      (8)   Applicant shall be responsible for cleaning, maintenance and
replacement of any damaged or failed culvert installed under this section.
Should applicant fail to comply with this requirement, the city may assess the
cost of any maintenance, cleaning or replacement to the applicant pursuant to
M.S. § 429.101.
      (9)   If any excavation is to take place, "Gopher State One Call" is to
be notified at (800) 252-1166 prior to start of construction.
      (10)   All private driveway connections, including structures like
culverts, remain the continuing responsibility of the landowner, even if
located within the city right-of-way. It is immaterial whether the driveway
connection pre-dates the city ordinance's Red Lake Watershed District permit
system. If any driveway connection threatens the integrity of the city street
or roadway due to plugged or failing culverts, erosion, siltation, and the
like, the city or its designee can require the land owner to repair it. If the
land owner refuses to effectuate such repairs, then the city may perform the
work and assess the costs to the land owner pursuant to M.S. § 429.101.
   (F)   Violation. In the event of a violation of this section, the city may
institute appropriate actions or proceedings, including requesting injunctive
relief to prevent, restrain, correct or abate such violations.
(Ord. 37.07, passed 1-23-2023; Am. Ord. 37.07, passed 11-27-2023)
ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES; OBLIGATIONS OF PROPERTY OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS
§ 37.20 DEFINITION.
   The term CURRENT SERVICE as used in this subchapter means one or more of the
following: snow, ice or rubbish removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from
street grass plots adjacent to sidewalks or from private property; removal or
elimination of public health or safety hazards from private property, excluding
any hazardous building included in M.S. §§ 463.15 to 463.26, as it may be
amended from time to time; installation or repair of water service lines;
street sprinkling, street flushing, light street oiling or other dust treatment
of streets; repair of sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and
removal of unsound and insect infected trees from the public streets or private
property; and the operation of a street lighting system.
(2009 Code, § 302.01)
§ 37.21 SNOW, ICE, DIRT AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk may use diligence to keep such walk safe
for pedestrians. No such owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 36 hours after its deposit thereon.
   (B)   Removal by city. The designated official shall remove from all public
sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 36
hours after any such matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has
ceased to fall. He or she shall keep a record showing the cost of such removal
adjacent to each separate lot and parcel and shall deliver such information to
the City Administrator.
(2009 Code, § 302.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.22 WEED ELIMINATION.
   (A)   Weeds as a nuisance. Any weeds, whether noxious as defined by law or
not, growing upon any lot or parcel of land outside the traveled portion of any
street or alley in the city to a greater height than six inches or which have
gone or are about to go to seed are a nuisance. The owner and the occupant
shall abate or prevent such nuisance on such property and on land outside the
traveled portion of the street or alley abutting on such property.
   (B)   Notice. On or before June 1 each year and at such other times as
ordered by resolution of the Council, the City Administrator shall publish once
in the official newspaper a notice directing owners and occupant of property
within the city to destroy all weeds declared by division (A) above to be a
nuisance and stating that if not so destroyed within ten days after publication
of the notice, the weeds will be destroyed by the weed inspector (Street
Commissioner or other designated official) at the expense of the owner and that
if not paid, the charge for such work will be made a special assessment against
property concerned.
   (C)   Removal by city. If the owner or occupant of any property in the city
fails to comply with the notice within ten days after its publication, the city
or designated person (Street Commissioner or other designated officials) shall
cut and remove such weeds. He or she shall keep a record showing the cost of
such work attributable to each separate lot and parcel and shall deliver such
information to the City Administrator.
(2009 Code, § 302.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.23 PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY HAZARDS.
   When the city removes or eliminates public health or safety hazards from
private property under city ordinance, the administrative officer responsible
for doing the work shall keep a record of the cost of such removal or
elimination against each parcel of property affected and annually deliver such
information to the City Administrator. This section does not apply to hazardous
buildings under the Hazardous Building Law, M.S. §§ 463.15 to 463.26, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(2009 Code, § 302.04)
§ 37.24 INSTALLATION AND REPAIR OF WATER SERVICE LINES.
   Whenever the city install or repairs water service lines serving private
property under Title V, the designated official shall keep a record of the
total cost of the installation or repair against the property and deliver such
information to the City Administrator annually by August 15 as to each parcel
of property on which the cost has not been paid.
(2009 Code, § 302.05)
§ 37.25 REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in repair and safe
for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the Council and on file in the office of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   Inspections: notice. The designated official shall make such
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If he
or she finds that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe
and in need of repairs, he or she shall cause a notice to be served, by
registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of
the property and the occupant, if the owner does not reside within the city or
cannot be found therein, ordering such owner to have the sidewalk or alley
repaired and made safe within 15 days and stating that if the owner fails to do
so, the designated official will do so on behalf of the city, that the expense
thereof must be paid by the owner, and that if unpaid it will be made a special
assessment against the property concerned.
   (C)   Repair by city. If the sidewalks or alley is not repaired within 15
days after receipt of the notice, the designated official shall report the
facts to the Council and the Council shall by resolution order the designated
official to repair the sidewalk or alley and make it safe or order the work
done by contract in accordance with law. The Street Commissioner or other
official shall keep a record of the total cost of the repair attributable to
each lot or parcel of property and report such information to the City
Administrator.
(2009 Code, § 302.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.26 STREET SPRINKLING, STREET FLUSHING, TREE CARE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Proposed projects. The Council shall each year determine by resolution
what streets and alleys shall be sprinkled or flushed, oiled or given other
dust treatment during the year and the kind of work to be done on each. The
Council shall also determine by resolution from time to time the streets on
which trees shall be trimmed and cared for, the kind of work to be done, and
what unsound trees shall be removed. Before any work is done pursuant to either
of these resolutions, the City Administrator shall, under Council’s direction,
publish notice that the Council will meet to consider such projects. Such
notice shall be published in the official newspaper at least once no less than
two weeks prior to such meeting of the Council and shall state the date, time
and place of such meeting, the streets affected and the particular projects
proposed, and the estimated cost of each project, either in total or on the
basis of the proposed assessment per front foot or otherwise.
   (B)   Hearing; order. 
      (1)   At such hearing or at any adjournment thereof, the Council shall
hear property owners with reference to the scope and desirability of the
proposed projects. The Council shall thereupon adopt a resolution confirming
the original projects with such modifications as it considers desirable and
shall provide for the doing of the work by day labor through the designated
official or by contract.
      (2)   The designated official shall keep record of the cost and the
portion of the cost properly attributable to each lot and parcel of property
abutting on the street or alley on which the work is done and shall report such
information to the City Administrator.
(2009 Code, § 302.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.27 PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   The owner of property on which or adjacent to which a current service
has been performed shall be personally liable for the cost of such service.
   (B)   As soon as the service has been completed and the cost determined, the
City Administrator- Treasurer, or other designated official shall prepare a
bill and mail it to the owner, and thereupon the amount shall be immediately
due and payable at the office of the City Administrator-Treasurer.
(2009 Code, § 302.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
LOCAL IMPROVEMENT POLICY/CITY ASSESSMENT MANUAL
§ 37.40 CITY ADMINISTRATOR-TREASURER TO PREPARE ASSESSMENT MANUAL.
   The City Administrator-Treasurer shall prepare an assessment manual
specifying more detailed procedures for the conduct of local improvements and
the levy of special assessments in supplementation of this subchapter and
consistent therewith. Upon approval of the Council by resolution, such manual
shall be used with this subchapter in the conduct of all local improvement
proceedings to which they apply by their terms.
(2009 Code, § 303.14)
§ 37.41 GENERAL POLICY STATEMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to establish a fair and
equitable manner of assessing the increase in market value (special benefit)
associated with public improvements. The procedures used by the city for
levying special assessments are those specified by M.S. Chapter 429, as it may
be amended from time to time, which provides that all or a part of the cost of
improvements may be assessed against benefitting properties.
   (B)   Criteria. Three basic criteria must be satisfied before a particular
parcel can be assessed. The criteria are as follows:
      (1)   The land must have received special benefit from the improvement;
      (2)   The amount of the assessment must not exceed the special benefit;
and
      (3)   The assessment must be uniform in relation to the same class of
property within the assessment area.
   (C)   It is important to recognize that the actual cost of extending an
improvement past a particular parcel is not the controlling factor in
determining the amount to be assessed. However, in most cases the method for
assigning the value of the benefit received by the improvement, and therefore
the amount to be assessed, shall be the cost of providing the improvement. This
shall be true provided the cost does not demonstrably exceed the increase in
the market value of the property being assessed. The entire project shall be
considered as a whole for the purpose of calculating and computing an
assessment rate. In the event city staff has doubt as to whether or not the
costs of the project may exceed the special benefits to the property, the City
Council may obtain such appraisals as may be necessary to support the proposed
assessment.
   (D)   The assessment policy is intended to serve as a guide for a systematic
assessment process in the city. There may be exceptions to the policy or unique
circumstances or situations which may require special consideration and
discretion by city staff and the City Council.
(Res. 10-01-2020, passed 10-21-2020)
§ 37.42 IMPROVEMENTS AND MAINTENANCE COSTS ELIGIBLE FOR SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The following public improvements and related acquisition,
construction, extension, and maintenance of such improvements, authorized by
M.S. §§ 429.021 and 459.14, Subd. 7, as they may be amended from time to time,
are eligible for special assessment within the city:
      (1)   Streets, sidewalks, pavement, curbs and gutters, including the
beautification thereof;
      (2)   Parking lots;
      (3)   Water works systems and appurtenances, within and without the
corporate limits;
      (4)   Sanitary sewer and storm sewer systems including appurtenances,
within and without the corporate limits;
      (5)   Street boulevard trees;
      (6)   Street lights, street lighting systems and special lighting
systems;
      (7)   Steam heating mains;
      (8)   Parks, playgrounds, and recreational facilities, including the
purchase of equipment, within or without the corporate limits;
      (9)   Abatement of nuisances; including but not limited to, draining and
filling swamps, marshes, and ponds on public and private property;
      (10)   Dikes and other flood control works;
      (11)   Retaining walls and area walls;
      (12)   A pedestrian skyway system upon a petition pursuant to M.S. §
429.031, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (13)   Underground pedestrian concourses;
      (14)   Public malls, plazas or courtyards;
      (15)   District heating systems;
      (16)   Fire protection systems in existing buildings upon a petition
pursuant to M.S. § 429.031, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (17)   Highway sound barriers; and
      (18)   Gas and electric distribution facilities.
   (B)   The city is also authorized by ordinance adopted pursuant to M.S. §
429.021, as it may be amended from time to time, to recover, through special
assessment, the following maintenance costs:
      (1)   Snow, ice, or rubbish removal from sidewalks;
      (2)   Weed elimination from streets or private property;
      (3)   Removal or elimination of public health or safety hazards from
private property excluding any structure included under the provisions of
M.S.§§ 463.15 to 463.26, as they may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Installation or repair of water service lines, street sprinkling,
sweeping, or other dust treatment of streets;
      (5)   The trimming and care of trees and the removal of unsound trees
from any street;
      (6)   The treatment and removal of insect infested or diseased trees on
private property;
      (7)   The repair of sidewalks and alleys;
      (8)   The operation of a street lighting system; and
      (9)   The operation and maintenance of fire protection or a pedestrian
skyway system.
(Res. 10-01-2020, passed 10-21-2020)
§ 37.43 INITIATION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS.
   Public improvement projects can be initiated in the following ways.
   (A)   Public improvement projects may be initiated by petition of owners of
at least 35% in frontage of the property abutting the proposed improvement.
   (B)   Public improvements also may be initiated by the City Council when, in
its judgment, such action is required.
   (C)   A resolution ordering any improvements initiated by the Council or by
owners of less than 35% of abutting property owners requires a four-fifths
majority vote of all members of the Council. A resolution ordering any
improvements initiated by owners of not less than 35% of abutting property
owners requires a majority vote of all members of the Council. A resolution
ordering any improvements initiated by all owners of abutting property, and
assessing the entire cost against their property, may be adopted without a
public hearing. The Council may consider the request of a developer to
construct the improvements and assess them.
(Res. 10-01-2020, passed 10-21-2020)
§ 37.44 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   General procedure. The following is the general procedure followed by
the City Council for all public improvement projects from initiation of such a
project through certification of the assessment roll to the County Auditor.
   (B)   Formats. Formats for the various reports and resolutions referenced in
this division (B) are made a part of the policies and procedures of the city.
      (1)   Staff reviews the petition or developer’s request for submission to
Council.
      (2)   Council accepts or rejects petition or request. If based upon a
petition, the Council adopts a resolution declaring whether the required
percentage of property owners has signed. If the petition or request is
accepted, Council orders preparation of feasibility report.
      (3)   Staff prepares the feasibility report. The report shall preliminary
evaluate whether the proposed improvement is necessary, cost-effective, and
feasible and whether it should be made as proposed or in conjunction with
another project. The report shall include an estimate of the cost of the
improvement as proposed. Council may refer the report to the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
      (4)   Council accepts or rejects the feasibility report. If accepted,
Council orders a public hearing on the improvements.
      (5)   Staff posts and publishes hearing notice and mails notices to
affected property owners as provided in M.S. § 429.031(a), as it may be amended
from time to time.
      (6)   Council conducts a public hearing.
      (7)   Within six months of the hearing date, Council adopts or rejects
the resolution ordering improvement to be constructed and advertisement of
bids. If adopted, staff prepares final plans, advertises for and opens bids as
provided in M.S. § 429.041, as it may be amended from time, prepares the bid
tabulation, makes a recommendation to City Council for award, and prepares the
proposed assessment roll. Bonds to finance project costs may be issued at any
time after the improvements are ordered.
      (8)   Council awards the contract based on the bids received.
      (9)   Staff supervises construction and prepares payments.
      (10)   Council reviews the proposed assessment roll and orders an
assessment hearing.
      (11)   Staff publishes the hearing notice, mails the notice of hearing
date and the proposed assessments to the affected property owners as provided
in M.S. § 429.061, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (12)   Council conducts the assessment hearing and adopts, revises, or
rejects resolution determining the amount of the total expense the city will
pay, if any, and establishing the assessment roll. If adopted, Council
authorizes certification of the assessment to the County Auditor.
      (13)   Staff certifies the assessment roll to the County Auditor.
(Res. 10-01-2020, passed 10-21-2020)
§ 37.45 FINANCING OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city encourages public improvement projects as the area(s)
benefitting and needing such improvements develop. Examples of this policy can
be seen through these subchapter regulations, zoning regulations, and building
codes. Developers are required to provide the needed improvements and services
before development occurs, thereby avoiding unexpected hardships on the
property owners purchasing such property and the general public. However, it is
recognized that certain areas of the city have developed without all needed
public improvements (e.g. parks, water, sewer, and street improvements) and
that methods must be found to provide these improvements without causing undue
hardships on the general public or the individual property owner.
   (B)   Special assessments are generally accepted as a means by which areas
can obtain improvements or services; however, the method of financing these is
a critical factor to both the city and the property owner. Full project costs
spread over a very short term can cause an undue hardship on the property owner
and, likewise, city costs and systems costs spread over a long period of time
can produce and undue hardship on the general public of the city.
   (C)   It is the policy of the city to not defer assessments except in cases
where hardship to senior citizens 65 years of age or older or persons retired
by virtue of a permanent and total disability would result. Also, the City
Council may elect to defer assessments on undeveloped land for a specified
length of time or until the lands are developed. Terms and conditions of any
such deferral will be established in the resolution adopting the assessments.
(Res. 10-01-2020, passed 10-21-2020)
§ 37.46 GENERAL ASSESSMENT POLICIES APPLICABLE TO ALL TYPES OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The cost of any improvement shall be assessed upon property by the
improvements based upon benefits received. The following general principles
shall be used as a basis of the city’s assessment policy.
   (A)   Project cost. The PROJECT COST of an improvement includes the costs of
all necessary construction work required to accomplish the improvement, plus
engineering, legal, administrative, financing and other contingent costs,
including acquisition of right-of-way and other property. The finance charges
include all costs of financing the project. These costs include but are not
limited to financial consultant’s fees, bond rating agency fee, bond attorney’s
fees, and capitalized interest. The interest charged to the project shall be
included as financing charges.
   (B)   City cost. The CITY COST of an improvement is the amount of the total
improvement expense the city will pay as determined by Council resolution.
Where the project cost of an improvement is not entirely attributed to the need
for service to the area served by said improvement, or where unusual conditions
beyond the control of the owners of the property in the area served by the
improvement would result in an inequitable distribution of special assessments,
or for any other reason determined by the city, the city, through the use of
other funds, may pay such CITY COST.
   (C)   Assessable cost. The ASSESSABLE COST of an improvement is equal to the
PROJECT COST minus the CITY COST.
   (D)   Interest. The city will charge interest on special assessments at a
rate specified in the resolution
approving the assessment roll. If bonds were sold to finance the improvement
project, the interest rate shall be 2% more than the average interest rate of
the bonds, rounded to the nearest quarter of a percent. If no bonds were sold,
the interest rate shall be set at the same rate.
   (E)   Prepayment. Property owners may pay their assessments in full interest
free for a period of 30 days after the assessment hearing. After such period
interest shall be computed from the date specified in the assessment
resolution.
      (1)   The city will transmit a certified duplicate of the assessment roll
with each installment, including interest, to the County Auditor, or in lieu of
such certification, annually certify to the County Auditor by November 30 in
each year, the total amount of installments of and interest on assessments on
each parcel which are to become due in the following year.
      (2)   Prior to certification of principal and interest or the first
installment thereof, to the County Auditor, a property owner may make a partial
prepayment of the principal to the city. Such partial prepayment must be at
least $100. If the partial prepayment is made after the 30-day “interest free”
period allowed by state law, interest will be charged on the amount of the
partial prepayment from the date specified in the resolution and paid along
with the partial prepayment.
      (3)   After the city has made the first certification of principal and
interest to the County Auditor, prepayment will be accepted only for the total
amount still owing including interest and must be made prior to November 15 of
any year. If a parcel has two or more separate special assessments, prepayment
of the remaining principal balance may be made on one or more assessment
totals.
      (4)   Tax-exempt parcels such as churches and school properties may make
only one partial prepayment to the first certification to the County Auditor.
The remaining principal after the partial prepayment will be paid in equal
installments over the remaining term of the special assessments.
   (F)   Extensions. Where an improvement is designed for service of an area
beyond that receiving the
initial benefit, the city may pay for increased project costs due to such
provisions for future service extensions. The city will levy assessments to
cover this cost when a new improvement is installed as an extension of the
existing improvement upon identification of such additional amount in the
notice of hearing for the extensions or new improvements. As an alternative,
the city may assess these costs to the area of future benefit immediately.
   (G)   Frontage roads. Because frontage roads along highways or other
arterial streets are deemed to be of benefit to commercial or industrial
properties, the entire costs of any improvement on such frontage roads shall be
assessable to the benefited properties, even if only those properties on one
side of such frontage roads are benefitted.
   (H)   Project assistance. If the city receives financial assistance from the
federal government, the state, the county, or from any other source to defray a
portion of the costs of a given improvement, such aid will be used first to
reduce the CITY COST of the improvement. If the financial assistance received
is greater than the CITY COST, the remainder of the aid will be placed in the
Capital Improvement Fund to be applied towards other city projects.
   (I)   Assessable property. Property owned by the city and other political
subdivisions including municipal building sites, parks and playgrounds, but not
including public streets, alleys, and right-of- way, shall be regarded as being
assessable on the same basis as if such property was privately owned. Private
right-of-way shall be assessable.
   (J)   Individual benefits. The city must construct improvements specifically
designed for or shown to be of benefit solely to one or more properties. The
costs for these improvements will be assessed directly to such properties, and
not included in the assessments for the remainder of the project. An example of
this would be utility service lines running from the main lines to the
property.
   (K)   Benefit appraisals. In the event that city staff has doubt as to
whether or not the proposed assessments exceed the special benefits to the
property in question, the City Council may order benefit appraisals as deemed
necessary to support the proposed assessments. As a general rule, benefit
appraisals may be ordered when the proposed assessment exceeds $10,000 for a
standard city reconstruction on a residential lot or $30,000 per acre for
commercial or industrial property.
   (L)   Condemnation awards. A property owner may elect to offset special
assessments against condemnation awards. In such case, the property owner must
execute an agreement (net assessment agreement) with the City Council.
(Res. 10-01-2020, passed 10-21-2020)
§ 37.47 METHODS OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   General statement. There are different methods of assessment: per lot,
adjusted front foot, and area. The feasibility report will recommend one or a
combination of these methods for each project, based upon which method would
best reflect the benefit received for the area to be assessed. The City Council
will select the preferred method of calculating the assessments at the time the
project is ordered.
   (B)   Policy statement. The following methods of assessment, as described
and defined below, are hereby established as methods of assessment in the city.
      (1)   “Adjusted front footage” method of assessment. The “cost per
adjusted front foot” method of assessment shall be based on the quotient of the
“assessable cost” divided by the total assessable frontage benefitting from the
improvement. For the purpose of determining the “assessable frontage”, all
properties, including governmental agencies, shall have their frontages
included in such calculation. The actual physical dimensions of a parcel
abutting an improvement (such as, street, sewer, water, and the like) shall not
be construed as the frontage utilized to calculate the assessment for a
particular parcel. Rather, an “adjusted front footage” will be determined. The
purpose of this method is to equalize assessment calculations for lots of
similar size. Individual parcels by their very nature differ considerably in
shape and area.
      (2)   The following procedures will apply when calculating adjusted front
footage. The selection of the appropriate procedure will be determined by the
specified configuration of the parcel. All measurements will be scaled from
available plat and section maps and will be rounded down to the nearest foot
dimension with any excess fraction deleted.
         (a)   Rectangular interior lots. The rectangular lot is defined as
having no more than ten feet difference between the front and rear lot lines.
The adjusted front footage is the actual front footage of the lot. For
rectangular lots whose frontage is less than its depth, the “odd shaped lot”
method shall be used.
         (b)   Odd shaped lots. For odd shaped lots such as exist on cul-de-
sacs and curved streets where there is more than ten feet of difference between
the front and rear lot lines, and where the lots’ frontage is less than its
depth, the “odd shaped lot” method of determining the adjusted front footage
shall be used. The adjusted front footage shall be determined by computing the
average width of the lot.
         (c)   Corner lot adjustment. For street and trail assessments, the
short side will be assessed the actual front footage. The long side will be
assessed one-half the actual side footage. Sanitary sewer and water main will
only be assessed on the frontage where the service line(s) enter the lot.
         (d)   Triangular shaped lots. When a triangular lot has two or more
streets adjacent to the lot, the frontage on the driveway side will be assessed
for street improvements. Sanitary sewer and water main will only be assessed on
the frontage where the service line(s) enter the lot.
         (e)   Buildable lots. Lots that meet the current standards of the
zoning ordinance shall be considered buildable and their dimensions shall be
included in the assessment footage calculation.
         (f)   Contiguous lots. Lots that abut other lots owned by the property
owner shall be included in the assessment footage calculation.
         (g)   Unbuildable lots. Lots that do not meet the standards of the
zoning regulations and are not contiguous to additional property owned by the
same owner shall be considered unbuildable and thus do not receive benefit from
the project and their footage is not included in the calculations.
         (h)   Non contiguous lots. Lots that do not abut other parcels owned
by the owner of the lots.
      (3)   “Area” method of assessment. The “area” method of assessment shall
be based on the number of square feet or acres within the boundaries of the
appropriate property lines of the areas benefitting from the project. The
assessment rate (such as, cost per square foot) shall be calculated by dividing
the total assessable cost by the total assessable area. On large lots, the City
Engineer may determine that only a portion of the lots receives the benefit and
may select a lot depth for the calculations equal to the benefit received.
      (4)   All properties included in the benefitted area, including other
governmental areas, churches, and the like, shall be assessable. The following
items may not be included in area calculations: public right-of-ways, natural
waterways, swamps, lakes and other wetlands designated by the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources or the city. The City Engineer will make a
recommendation on the boundaries or parameters of the benefitted area in the
feasibility report.
      (5)   “Per lot” method of assessment. The “per lot” method of assessment
shall be based on equal assessment of all lots within the benefitted area. The
“assessment per lot” shall be the quotient of the “assessable cost” divided by
the total assessable lots or parcels benefitting from the improvement. For the
purpose of detertnining the “lots” or “parcels” all parcels, including
governmental agencies, shall be included in such calculations.
(Res. 10-01-2020, passed 10-21-2020)
§ 37.48 STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS.
   The following standards are hereby established by the city to provide a
uniform guide for improvements within the city.
   (A)   Surface improvements. Surface improvements shall normally include all
improvements visible on or above the ground within the right-of-way, and
includes, but is not limited to trees, lighting, sidewalks, signing; street and
accessory improvements such as drainage ponds and facilities, parking lots,
parks and playgrounds.
   (B)   Policy statement regarding surface improvements. Prior to construction
or completion of surface improvements, all utilities and utility service lines
(including sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water lines, gas and electric
service) shall be installed to all planned service locations such as residences
or buildings. When practicable, no surface improvements to less than both sides
of a full block of street shall be approved except as necessary to complete
partially completed improvements initiated previously. Concrete curbing or curb
and gutter shall be installed at the same time as street surfacing.
   (C)   Sub-surface improvements.
      (1)   Subsurface improvements shall normally include such items as water
distribution, sanitary sewer and storm sewer lines and electric and gas
utilities.
      (2)   Main lines are the publicly owned and maintained lines or
facilities such as trunk lines, interceptors, mains, and laterals. Service
lines are those privately owned lines or facilities extending from the main
line to the property line.
   (D)   Policy statement regarding sub-surface improvements. Sub-surface
improvements shall be made to serve current and projected land use. All
installations shall conform to applicable standards established by local, state
and/or federal agencies of competent jurisdiction.
      (1)   All installations shall also comply, to the maximum extent
feasible, with nationally recognized standards such as those of the American
Insurance Association.
      (2)   Service lines from the lateral or trunk to the property line of all
planned service locations such as residences or buildings shall be installed in
conjunction with the construction of the mains.
(Res. 10-01-2020, passed 10-21-2020)
§ 37.49 REASSESSMENT POLICIES.
   (A)   Generally. The city shall design public improvements to last for a
definite period. The life expectancy or service life shall be as stated in the
policy statement of this section, or if different, shall be as stated in the
resolution ordering improvement and preparation of plans.
   (B)   Policy statement. The following are the “life expectancies” or
“service lives” of public improvements except as may be otherwise stated in the
resolution ordering improvement and preparation of plans:
      (1)   Sidewalks: 20 years;
      (2)   Street improvements, including surfacing and curb and gutter: 20
years;
      (3)   Ornamental street lighting: 20 years;
      (4)   Water mains: 30 years;
      (5)   Sanitary sewers: 30 years; and
      (6)   Storm sewers: 30 years.
(Res. 10-01-2020, passed 10-21-2020)
§ 37.50 ASSESSMENT COMPUTATIONS.
   The following is the typical city assessment for various specified
improvements.
   (A)   Street, curb, and gutter improvements.
      (1)   New constructions. New streets are assessed 100% to the abutting
benefitted properties. Street and curb and gutter improvements will normally be
assessed by the adjusted front foot method; however other methods may be
utilized if conditions warrant. Cost of construction of streets shall be
assessed based on the minimum design of a 36 feet wide seven-ton axle load in
residential zoned areas and ten-ton axle load in commercial and industrial
zoned areas. Over-sizing costs which are incurred in excess of the above may be
paid by:
         (a)   State funds;
         (b)   Larger assessment rates to other benefitted properties;
         (c)   General obligation funds; or
          (d)   Any other method or combination of methods authorized by the
City Council.
      (2)   Reconstruction and overlays. Street reconstructions and overlays
are assessed 30% to the
abutting benefitted properties. New curb and gutter are 30% assessed.
      (3)   Gravel streets. Upgrading of existing gravel street by adding
pavement, curb and gutter is considered new construction and all costs are
assessed 100%.
      (4)   Seal coats. Seal coats are not being assessed.
      (5)   Alleys. Upgrading existing gravel alleys by adding pavement is
assessed 100% to all lots
abutting on the alley in the block being improved. Reconstructing existing
paved alleys are 30% assessed also.
   (B)   Storm sewer improvements.
      (1)   Storm sewers are assessed on a project-by-project basis. Storm
sewers in new subdivisions are considered an assessable improvement on an area
basis.
      (2)   Over sizing costs due to larger mains and larger appurtenances are
paid for by a combination of availability charges, user charges and/or trunk
area assessment charges. Trunk area storm sewer charges are levied to all
unplatted property at the time of platting, to re-plats that have not been
charged trunk area charges when the land was originally platted, and to re-
plats that have been charged trunk area charges when the land was originally
platted but where the use is increasing (only the cost difference based on
current and prior use is charged). The charges will be set in the annual fee
schedule during the first City Council meeting in January of each year.
      (3)   Normally, storm sewers are assessed on an area wide basis (square
foot or acres), but in certain situations the per lot method or adjusted front
method may be utilized at the City Council’s discretion.
   (C)   Sanitary sewer assessments.
      (1)   Assessments for sanitary sewer in residential areas are based upon
the cost of construction of eight-inch mains, which is the smallest size
installed in residential areas of the city. Assessments for sanitary sewers in
commercial and industrial areas are based upon a standard size of eight-inch
mains.
      (2)   Over-sizing costs due to larger mains and larger appurtenances will
be paid for by a combination of availability charges, user charges and/or trunk
area assessment charges. Trunk area sanitary sewer charges shall be levied to
all un-platted property at the time of platting and to re-plats that have not
been charged trunk area charges when the land was originally platted. The
charges will be set in the annual fee schedule during the first City Council
meeting in January of each year. Services installed to individual properties
are fully assessed to the benefitting property.
      (3)   Normally, sanitary sewers are assessed on an area wide basis
(square foot or acres), but in certain situations the per lot method or
adjusted front method may be utilized at the City Council’s discretion.
      (4)   Lateral benefit from major trunk sewers or interceptors is assessed
to the properties benefitted by the sewer. Any over-sizing cost is assessed as
described above.
      (5)   The replacement of existing sewers is assessed 30% with the
remaining costs paid for by other funding sources identified by the City
Council.
      (6)   Individual service lines installed directly to specified properties
are fully assessed directly to the benefitted properties. Properties that have
existing sanitary services, but do not have main line sewers adjacent, across
or up to their property lines pay 30% of the assessment rate for the new main
line sanitary sewer as well as 100% of the cost associated with replacing the
service lines.
      (7)   Any existing service lines found to be defective as part of a
street reconstruction are replaced as part of the project and assessed directly
to the property.
   (D)   Water main assessments.
      (1)   Assessments for water mains in residential areas are based upon the
cost of construction of 8-inch mains, which is the smallest size installed in
residential areas of the city. Assessments for water mains in commercial and
industrial areas are based upon the standard size of 12-inch mains.
      (2)   Over-sizing costs due to larger mains and larger appurtenance are
paid for by a combination of availability charges, user charges and/or trunk
area assessment charges.
      (3)   Trunk area water charges shall be levied to all un-platted property
at the time of platting and to re-plats that have not been charged trunk area
charges when the land was originally platted. The charges will be set in the
annual fee schedule during the first City Council meeting in January of each
year. Services installed to individual properties shall be assessed 30% to the
benefitting property.
      (4)   Normally, water mains are assessed on a per lot basis, but in
certain situations the area or adjusted front method may be utilized at the
City Council’s discretion.
      (5)   The replacement of existing water mains is assessed 30%.
      (6)   Lateral benefit from major trunk water mains is assessed to
properties benefitted by the water main. Lateral water main assessments are to
be based on the costs for an equivalent eight-inch diameter water main for
residential properties and for commercial/industrial properties.
      (7)   Individual service lines installed directly to specified properties
are fully assessed directly to the benefitted properties. Properties that have
existing water services, but do not have main line water mains adjacent, across
or up to their property lines pay 30% of the assessment rate for the new water
main as well as 30% of the cost associated with replacing the service lines.
      (8)   Any existing service lines found to be defective as part of the
project, are assessed directly to the property.
   (E)   Street boulevard trees. All street boulevard trees installed as part
of new street constructions or in reconstructing existing streets shall be
included as part of the overall project costs included in the assessment
calculations.
   (F)   Street lights. All costs for new street lights installed as part of
constructing new streets or street lights relocated as part of reconstructing
streets are included in the overall project costs and included in the
assessment calculations. In new subdivisions, the city may require the
developer to finance street light improvement rather than assessing the cost.
   (G)   Other improvements. Based on the City Council determination, any other
improvements may be fully assessed or assessed in part.
(Res. 10-01-2020, passed 10-21-2020)
§ 37.51 DEFERMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   The Council may defer the payment of any special assessment on
homestead property owned by a person who is 65 years of age or older, or who is
retired by virtue of permanent and total disability, and the City
Administrator-Treasurer is hereby authorized to record the deferment of special
assessments where the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The applicant must apply for the deferment not later than 90 days
after the assessment is adopted by the City Council;
      (2)   The applicant must be 65 years of age or older or retired by virtue
of permanent and total disability;
      (3)   The applicant must be the owner of the property;
      (4)   The applicant must occupy the property as his principal place of
residence; and
      (5)   The average annual payment for assessments levied against the
subject property exceed 1% of the adjusted gross income of the applicant as
evidenced by the applicant’s most recent federal income tax return. The average
annual payment of an assessment shall be the total cost of the assessment
divided by the number of years over which it is spread.
   (B)   The deferment shall be granted for as long a period of time as the
hardship exists and the conditions aforementioned have been met. However, it
shall be the duty of the applicant to notify the City Administrator-Treasurer
of any change in his or her status that would affect eligibility for deferment.
   (C)   The entire amount of deferred special assessments shall be due within
60 days after loss of eligibility by the applicant. If the special assessment
is not paid within the 60 days, the City Administrator-Treasurer shall add
thereto interest at a per armum interest rate of 2% above the bond interest
rate and the total amount of principal and interest shall be certified to the
County Auditor for collection with taxes the following year. Should the
applicant demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Council, that full repayment
of the deferred special assessment would cause the applicant particular undue
financial hardship, the Council may order that the applicant pay within 60 days
a sum equal to the number of installments of deferred special assessments
outstanding and unpaid to date, including principal and interest, with the
balance thereafter paid according to the terms and conditions of the original
special assessments.
   (D)   The option to defer the payment of special assessments shall terminate
and all amounts accumulated plus applicable interest shall become due upon the
occurrence of any one of the following:
      (1)   The death of the owner when there is no spouse who is eligible for
deferment;
      (2)   The sale, transfer or subdivision of all or any part of the
property;
      (3)   Loss of homestead status on the property; or
      (4)   Determination by the Council for any reason that inunediate or
partial payment would impose no hardship.
   (E)   State law references(s): M.S. § 435.193, as it may be amended from
time to time, senior citizens or retired and disabled persons hardship special
assessment deferral.
(Res. 10-01-2020, passed 10-21-2020)
§ 37.52 FEDERAL, STATE AND COUNTY AID USE.
   If the city receives financial assistance from the federal government, the
state or the county to defray a portion of the cost of a street improvement
project, such aid shall be used first to reduce the share of the project cost
which would be met from general city funds according to the assessment formula
contained in this subchapter. If such aid is more than the amount of the
improvement cost to be borne by the city, the remainder of the aid so received
shall be used to reduce each individual assessment proportionately.
(2009 Code, § 303.07)
CHAPTER 38: COMMUNITY HALL
Section
   
38.01   User provisions
§ 38.01 USER PROVISIONS.
   The Community Hall of the city may be used upon the following conditions.
   (A)   No person, corporation, group or organization shall use Community Hall
until he or she or it shall obtain the approval of the City Council or its
authorized representative and have complied with the other provisions of this
section.
   (B)   All groups must make reservations and are required to fill out a use
agreement.
   (C)   A $50 deposit is required on a key which may be picked up at the
office during office hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. (Summer office hours
between April and October are at the discretion of the City Administrator.)
   (D)   See annual fee schedule for rental fees.
   (E)   No charge or damage deposit shall be required from a non-profit
corporation or association or church serving the city area.
   (F)   Non-profit organization using the hall are responsible to return
tables and chairs to their original positions and clean up and leave building
in the original condition. If the building is not cleaned up, the organization
will be assessed the regular rental rates.
   (G)   All activities must be under the direction and supervision of a
responsible adult. The supervisor must be responsible for the proper use of the
facilities and be certain that everyone is out of the building before he or she
leaves.
   (H)   The City Council or City Administrator-Treasurer reserves the right to
approve or disapprove any function.
   (I)   The door is to be locked when leaving and the key may be left in the
outside box or returned to the office the following day.
   (J)   Community Hall is a smoke-free building.
   (K)   There shall be a deputy on duty for all dances.
   (L)   When private party dances are being held at the Community Hall, it
shall be the responsibility of the party renting the hall to issue, in advance,
invitations to the dance and permit only those to the dance that have an
invitation.
   (M)   Any food, beverage or substance which has been spilled must be cleaned
up or cleaning charges or damages will be assessed to the depositor or user.
   (N)   An organization which violates this section shall be denied further
use of the Community Halls.
   (O)   Violation of this section shall be a petty misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 910.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 39: PERMIT AND LICENSE FEES
Section
   
39.01   Adopted
§ 39.01 ADOPTED.
   The schedule of permit and license fees is hereby adopted and incorporated
into this code as fully as if set out at length herein. A copy of which is on
file in the office of the City Administrator-Treasurer and is available for
public inspection and copying during regular business hours.
(2009 Code, Appendix)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER; GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
52.   WATER SYSTEM
      
53.   SEWER USE REGULATIONS
      
54.   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
      
55.   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   General regulations
   
50.03   Disposal required
   
50.04   Containers
   
50.05   Contract for refuse collection
   
50.06   Municipal collection
   
50.07   Rates and charges
   
50.08   Refuse collection schedule
   
50.09   Collection vehicles
   
50.10   Limitations
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Organic waste resulting from the preparation of food and decayed
and spoiled food from any source.
   REFUSE. Includes garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Inorganic solid waste such as tin cans, glass, paper, ashes,
sweepings and the like.
(2009 Code, § 502.01)
§ 50.02 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Unauthorized accumulation. Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on
any premises is a nuisance and prohibited.
   (B)   Refuse in streets and the like. No person shall place any refuse in
any street, alley or public place or upon any private property except in proper
containers for collection. No person shall throw or deposit refuse in any
stream or other body of water.
   (C)   Scattering of refuse. No person shall deposit anywhere within the city
any refuse in such manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements
upon any public or private premises within the city.
   (D)   Burying of refuse; composting. No person shall bury any refuse in the
city, except in an approved sanitary landfill, but leaves, grass clippings and
easily biodegradable, non-poisonous garbage may be composted on the premises
where such refuse has been accumulated. Garbage may be composted only in a
rodent-proof structure and in an otherwise sanitary manner and after the
Council (Health Officer) gives its approval to such composting after he or she
finds that the composting will be done in accordance with these standards.
(2009 Code, § 502.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   Every person shall, in a sanitary manner, dispose of refuse that may
accumulate upon property owned or occupied by him or her. Garbage shall be
collected, or otherwise lawfully disposed of, at least once a week. Each
individual home and each individual business shall be required to have garbage
collection.
(2009 Code, § 502.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   General requirement. Every householder, occupant or owner of any
residence and any restaurant, industrial establishment or commercial
establishment shall provide on the premises one or more containers to receive
and contain all refuse which may accumulate between collections. All normal
accumulations of refuse shall be deposited in such containers. In lieu of said
containers, the City Council may authorize by resolution a system of suitable
disposable bags to be used for garbage collection. Leaves, trimmings from
shrubs, grass clippings, shavings, excelsior and other rubbish of similar
volume and weight may be stored in closed containers not meeting the
requirements of division (B) below.
   (B)   Container requirements. 
      (1)   Each container shall be watertight and impervious to insects. The
container shall not exceed 32 gallons in capacity, except that for certain
types of businesses, residences or manufacturing plants having refuse volume
exceeding two cubic yards per week. The City Council may authorize the use of
special bulk or box-type refuse storage containers that are adaptable to the
truck used for collection. These special containers may be purchased by the
individuals or businesses or rented from the city or contractor furnishing the
collection service.
      (2)   Containers shall be maintained in good and sanitary condition. Any
container not conforming to the requirements of this chapter or having ragged
or sharp edges or any other defect likely to hamper or injure the person
collecting the contents shall be promptly replaced after notice by the city.
   (C)   Placement. Where an alley open to traffic is available, each container
for premises abutting the alley shall be placed at the rear of the property
next to the alley. Where no alley exists, the container shall be placed near
the rear door of the building to which it relates. In that case, the container
shall be placed at the front property line for collection but it shall not be
so placed before 9:00 p.m. the night before collection and shall be removed by
8:00 p.m. the day of collection.
   (D)   Use of containers. Refuse shall be drained of liquid and household
garbage shall be wrapped before being deposited in a container. Highly
flammable or explosive material shall not be placed in containers.
   (E)   Maintenance of containers. Renters of containers for garbage will be
responsible for the condition including any damages to the container beyond the
reasonable wear and tear. Food and other moist materials should be wrapped
before being placed in the container.
(2009 Code, § 502.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 CONTRACT FOR REFUSE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Council to let contract. Subject to the provisions of this chapter,
the Council shall grant by contract to the lowest bidder in accordance with law
the authority to collect and dispose of all refuse originating within the city.
The City Administrator-Treasurer shall prepare specifications for advertising
for bids for such contract and he or she shall see that when let, the contract
is executed in accordance with its terms and this section.
   (B)   Terms. The contract shall be made for fixed terms and may have
provision to renewals.
   (C)   Liability insurance. It shall be a condition of the contract that the
applicant file with the City Administrator-Treasurer a current policy of public
liability insurance covering all vehicles to be used by the applicant in the
licensed business. The limits of coverage of such insurance are a minimum of
$250,000/$500,000 combined single limit.
   (D)   Contract collector. No person shall collect refuse within the city
except a person holding a contract with the city to do so. No person shall
permit refuse to be picked up from his or her premises except by such
contractor.
(2009 Code, § 502.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 MUNICIPAL COLLECTION.
   (A)   City system established. There is hereby established a municipal
system for the collection and disposal of refuse accumulated within the city.
No person except an authorized city employee shall collect, convey over any
street or alley of the city, or dispose of any refuse accumulated in the city
except as provided in §
50.02(D).
   (B)   Responsibility for city system. The City Administrator-Treasurer or
designated official shall supervise and control the collection and disposal of
refuse. In accordance with regular personnel and purchasing procedures, he or
she shall employ necessary personnel and acquire necessary equipment to provide
for the collection and disposal of refuse accumulated within the city. Subject
to Council approval, he or she may adopt rules and regulations necessary to
supplement the provisions of this chapter.
(2009 Code, § 502.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish a system of service charges for
refuse collection and shall fix and declare the maximum charges, including
special charges for extra hauling or collecting from an excessive number of
containers, and shall classify refuse collection and disposal according to the
type of service required and given based on the type of residence or dwelling,
type of business conducted and the number of collections and removals each
week, fixing and establishing a service charge for each class.
   (B)   A copy of the fee schedule shall be adopted by City Council majority
vote and is in §
39.01.
      (1)   Costs assessed. The cost of operating the commercial refuse
collection system shall assessed on the size of the container and number of
pickups per week.
      (2)   Individual residences.
         (a)   The service charge shall be made to the owner or occupant of
each building or housing unit served. If the building is served by city water
or sewer, the refuse collection charge shall be billed as a separate entry on
the water or sewer bill.
         (b)   If the premises are not so served, the refuse collection charge
shall be separately billed by the City Administrator-Treasurer.
      (3)   Commercial businesses/individual residences.
         (a)   Payment. Service charges shall be payable at the same time as
bills for water service and subject to the same conditions of payment.
Delinquent accounts not paid by the fifteenth of the month will be assessed
according to the city’s fee schedule.
         (b)   Fund. All service charges shall be deposited in the Utility
Fund.
(2009 Code, § 502.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.08 REFUSE COLLECTION SCHEDULE.
   The City Council shall set, by resolution, the schedule by which the refuse
collector shall collect refuse from the property in the city.
(2009 Code, § 502.07)
§ 50.09 COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   Every refuse collection vehicle shall be lettered on the outside so as to
identify the licensee (contractor). Every vehicle used for hauling garbage
shall be covered, leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction.
Every vehicle used for hauling refuse shall be sufficiently airtight and so
used as to prevent unreasonable quantities of dust, paper or other collected
materials to escape. Every vehicle shall be kept clean to prevent nuisances,
pollution or insect-breeding, and shall be maintained in good repair.
(2009 Code, § 502.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.10 LIMITATIONS.
   There shall be no garbage picked up in containers larger than 32-gallon
containers. Christmas trees, branches, lumber; cardboard boxes must be cut to
30 inches and tied in bundles. The contractor will not pick up any dead
animals, tires, auto parts, snowmobile parts or caustic containers.
(2009 Code, § 502.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER; GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
51.01   Water and Sewer Department
   
51.02   Use of water or sewer system restricted
   
51.03   Application for service
   
51.04   Charges for service connections
   
51.05   Accounting, billing and collection
   
51.06   Protection of public and city
   
51.07   Trace wire specifications
§ 51.01 WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established a Water and Sewer Department, which shall be
under the supervision of the designated official. The Department shall be
responsible for the management, maintenance, care and operation of the water
works and sanitary sewage system of the city.
(2009 Code, § 401.01)
§ 51.02 USE OF WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM RESTRICTED.
   No person shall make or use any water or sewer service installation
connected to the city water or sewer system except pursuant to application and
permit as provided in this chapter. No person shall make or use any such
installation contrary to the regulatory provisions of this chapter.
(2009 Code, § 401.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Procedure. Application for a water or sewer service installation and
for water service shall be made to the City Administrator-Treasurer on forms
prescribed by the City Council and furnished by the city. By his or her
signature, the applicant shall agree to conform to this chapter and to rules
and regulations that may be established by the city as conditions for the use
of water.
   (B)   Fees or deposit. Application for a service installation shall be made
by the owner of the property to be served or by his or her agent. The applicant
shall at the time of making application pay to the city the amount of the fees
or deposit required for the installation of the service connection as provided
in this chapter. When a water service connection has been installed,
application for water service may be made either by the owner or his or her
agent or by the tenant or occupant of the premises.
(2009 Code, § 401.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 CHARGES FOR SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit and fee. No connection shall be made to the city water or
sanitary sewer system without a permit received from the City Administrator-
Treasurer. The fee for water and sewer connections shall be set by City Council
resolutions. A copy of this schedule shall be in §
39.01. These fees shall be in addition to any fees required under divisions
(B), (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   Connection fees. When a connection requires installation of a service
line from the main to the property line, the applicant for a permit shall pay
to the city the necessary connection fees, taps (licensed plumber required),
installation of pipe and necessary street repairs to provide service to the
property.
   (C)   Certification. No permit shall be issued to connect with any water or
sanitary sewer main unless the applicant certifies to the truth of one of the
following or the payment required under division (D) below is made:
      (1)   The lot or tract to be served has been assessed for the cost of
construction the main with which the connection is made or that proceedings for
levying such assessment have been or will be commenced in due course;
      (2)   The cost of construction of the main has been paid by the developer
or builder platting the lot or tract; or
      (3)   If neither of the foregoing is true, a sum equal to the portion of
the cost of constructing the main which would be assessable against the lot or
parcel has been paid to the city.
   (D)   Additional connection fee. If no such certificate can be issued, the
applicant shall pay an additional connection fee equal to the portion of the
cost of construction of the main attributable to the property upon the same
basis as any assessment previously levied against other property for the main.
The determination shall be made by the City Council. If no such assessment has
been levied, the assessable cost shall be determined upon the basis of the
uniform charge which may have been or will be charged for similar connection
with the main. The amount shall be determined on the basis of the total
assessable cost of the main allocated on the basis of frontage. Where the
assessable cost cannot be determined, the charge shall be set by the City
Council based on front footage of the property to be served. In no event shall
the connection charge made under this division (D) exceed the increase in value
of the property attributable to the main.
   (E)   Notice and hearing. Before the City Council makes a final
determination of the additional connection fee under division (D) above, he or
she shall submit a written notice to the applicant stating the amount of the
proposed connection fee and the basis of its calculation. The notice shall also
state that the applicant may, within ten days of receipt of the notice, demand
a hearing on the matter. If the applicant requests a hearing within that time,
a hearing shall be held on the matter of the City Council at least one week
after the date in which the request is made. If as a result of the hearing, the
City Council finds that the proposed connection fee complies with the
requirements of division (D) above, it shall so determine. If he or she
determines that the proposed fee is in excess of the amount that would have
been assessed had the property been assessed for the main or in excess of the
increase in market value attributable to construction of the main, he or she
shall make a determination of the proper amount of the fee within the limits
specified in division (D) above. No connection shall be made without payment of
the connection fee determined after the hearing or determined after the
expiration of ten days from receipt of the notice when there has been no
request within that time for a hearing.
(2009 Code, § 401.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 ACCOUNTING, BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Accounts in name of owner. All accounts shall be carried in the name
of the owner. The owner shall be liable for water supplied to his or her
property, whether he or she is occupying the property or not, and any charges
unpaid shall be a lien upon the property.
   (B)   Bills for service. Water and sewer service charges shall be billed
together. Bills shall be mailed to the customers monthly and shall specify the
water consumed and the sewer and water charges in accordance with the rates set
out in this chapter.
   (C)   Delinquent accounts. 
      (1)   All charges for water and sewer service shall be due on the monthly
due date specified by the city for the respective account and shall be
delinquent 15 days thereafter. The city shall endeavor to collect delinquent
accounts promptly. In any case, where satisfactory arrangements for payment
have not been made, the Public Works Department may, after the procedural
requirements of division (D) below have been complied with, discontinue service
to the delinquent customer by shutting off the water at the stop box. When
water service to any premises has been discontinued, service shall not be
restored except upon the payment of all delinquent bills and reconnection fee
according to the city’s fee schedule. Delinquent accounts shall be certified to
the City Administrator-Treasurer who shall prepare an assessment roll each year
providing for assessment of the delinquent amounts against the respective
properties served. The assessment roll shall be delivered to the Council for
adoption on or before November 1 each year for certification to the County
Auditor for collection along with taxes. Such action optional and may be
subsequent to taking legal action to collect delinquent accounts.
      (2)   Notice to property owners affected by a delinquent utility bill
will occur 75 days after the last day a utility bill can be paid without
penalty after the fifteenth of each month.
   (D)   Procedure for shut off of service.
      (1)   Water shall not be shut off under division (C) above or for a
violation of rules and regulations affecting utility service until notice and
an opportunity for a hearing have first been given the occupant of the premises
involved. The notice shall be personally served or by mail to last known
resident and shall state that if payment is not made before a day stated in the
notice but not less than ten days after the date on which the notice is given,
the water supply to the premises will be shut off. The notice shall also state
that the occupant may, before such date, demand a hearing on the matter, in
which case the supply will not be cut off until after the hearing is held. If
the customer requests a hearing before the date specified, a hearing shall be
held on the matter by the City Council at least one week after the date on
which the request is made. If as a result of the hearing, the City Council
finds that the amount claimed to be owing is actually due and unpaid and that
there is no legal reason why the water supply of the delinquent customer may
not be shut off in accordance with the ordinance, the city may shut off the
supply.
      (2)   Residents having a delinquent utility bill of 45 days will receive
a delinquent letter. The resident will have until the fifth business day after
receiving the certified letter to pay the utility bill in full. If the resident
has not paid the utility bill in full before the fifth business day following
receipt of the letter, the resident will have the water services shut off. To
restore the resident’s utilities, the resident must pay the utility bill in
full including the current month, pay a reconnection fee and a penalty as
stated in the city’s fee schedule. After the second disconnect, the resident
must pay an additional $200 penalty.
      (3)   Notice will occur 45 days after the last day a utility bill can be
paid without penalty (fifteenth of each month) or 60 days from the time the
bill is sent. Ten days after sending of the notice, water service can be shut
off (total delinquency: 70 days).
      (4)   Initial notice of delinquency occurs at the time an account reaches
over 15 days old and shows up right on the monthly bill as a late fee.
(2009 Code, § 401.05) (Ord. passed 12-14-1998; Ord. passed 3-24-2008) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 51.06 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC AND CITY.
   (A)   Permit and bond. A permit for construction and connection of the
extension between a building drain and the sewer main and stub, herein called
the building sewer, or between the building water service pipes and a water
main or stub shall be issued only upon application by a master plumber has
furnished a bond to the Secretary of State under M.S. § 326B.46, as amended
from time to time.
   (B)   Liability insurance. Before undertaking the construction work
authorized by the permit, the plumber shall secure and maintain a policy of
insurance as required by M.S. § 326B.46, Subd. 2(c), as amended from time to
time. The policy shall indemnify and save harmless the city and its personnel
against any claim, damages or cause of action arising out of the work and from
any expenses of defending the same. Proof of such insurance shall be filed with
the city prior to construction work and such policy shall provide that the city
shall be notified immediately of any termination or modification of such
insurance. If the insurance coverage is adequate in amount, the master plumber
shall indemnify and save harmless the city and its personnel in like matter.
   (C)   Apportionment of cost. The owner shall bear the costs and expenses
incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer or extension
of water service to private property. He or she shall indemnify the city for
any loss or damage directly or indirectly caused by its installation and
connection. To the extent he or she deems necessary, the City Administrator-
Treasurer shall establish rules and regulations for the proper implementation
of these requirements which, when approved by the Council by resolution, shall
govern the installation and connection of building sewers and extension of
water service to private property.
(2009 Code, § 401.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 TRACE WIRE SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Materials.
       (1)   All trace wire and trace wire products shall be domestically
manufactured in the United States.
      (2)   All trace wire shall have HDPE insulation intended for direct bury,
color coated per APWA standard for the specific utility being marked.
      (3)   Trace wire.
         (a)   Open trench.  Trace wire shall be #12 AWG copper clad steel,
high strength with minimum 450 lb. break load, with minimum 30 mil HDPE
insulation thickness.
         (b)   Directional drilling/boring. Trace wire shall be #12 AWG copper
clad steel, extra high strength with minimum 1,150 lb. break load, with minimum
30 mil HDPE insulation thickness.
         (c)   Trace wire: pipe bursting/slip lining. Trace wire shall be 7 × 7
stranded copper clad steel, extreme strength with 4,700 lb. break load, with
minimum 50 ml HDPE insulation thickness.
   (B)   Connectors. 
      (1)   All mainline trace wires must be interconnected in intersections,
at mainline tees and mainline crosses. At tees, the three wires shall be joined
using a single three-way lockable connector. At crosses, the four wires shall
be joined using a four-way connector. Use of two three-way connectors with a
short jumper wire between them is an acceptable alternative.
      (2)   Direct bury wire connectors shall include three-way lockable
connectors and mainline to lateral lug connectors specifically manufactured for
use in underground trace wire installation. Connectors shall be dielectric
silicon filled to seal out moisture and corrosion, and shall be installed in a
manner so as to prevent any uninsulated wire exposure.
      (3)   Non-locking friction fit, twist on or taped connectors are
prohibited.
   (C)   Termination/access.
      (1)   All trace wire termination points must utilize an approved trace
wire access box (above ground access box or grade level/in-ground access box as
applicable), specifically manufactured for this purpose.
      (2)   All grade level/in-ground access boxes shall be appropriately
identified with “sewer” or “water” cast into the cap and be color coded.
      (3)   A minimum of two feet of excess/slack wire is required in all trace
wire access boxes after meeting final elevation.
      (4)   All trace wire access boxes must include a manually interruptible
conductive/connective link between the terminal(s) for the trace wire
connection and the terminal for the grounding anode wire connection.
      (5)    Grounding anode wire shall be connected to the identified (or
bottom) terminal on all access boxes.
      (6)   Trace wire must terminate at an approved grade level/in ground
trace wire access box, located at the edge of the road right-of-way, and out of
the roadway.
      (7)   Trace wire must terminate at an approved above-ground trace wire
access box, affixed to the building exterior directly above where the utility
enters the building, at an elevation not greater than five vertical feet above
finished grade, or terminate at an approved grade level/in-ground trace wire
access box, located within two linear feet of the building being served by the
utility.
      (8)   Trace wire must terminate at an approved above-ground trace wire
access box, properly affixed to the hydrant grade flange. Affixing with tape or
plastic ties shall not be acceptable.
      (9)    Trace wire access must be provided utilizing an approved grade
level/in-ground trace wire access box, located at the edge of the road right-
of-way, and out of the roadway. The grade level/in-ground trace wire access box
shall be delineated using a minimum 48-inch polyethylene marker post, color
coded per APWA standard for the specific utility being marked.
   (D)   Grounding.
      (1)   Trace wire must be properly grounded at all dead ends/stubs.
      (2)   Grounding of trace wire shall be achieved by use of a drive-in
magnesium grounding anode rod with a minimum of 20 feet of #14 red HDPE
insulated copper clad steel wire connected to anode (minimum 0.5 lb.)
specifically manufactured for this purpose, and buried at the same elevation as
the utility.
       (3)   When grounding the trace wire at dead ends/stubs, the grounding
anode shall be installed in a direction 180 degrees opposite of the trace wire,
at the maximum possible distance.
      (4)   When grounding the trace wire in areas where the trace wire is
continuous and neither the mainline trace wire or the grounding anode wire will
be terminated at/above grade, install grounding anode directly beneath and in-
line with the trace wire. Do not coil excess wire from grounding anode. In this
installation method, the grounding anode wire shall be trimmed to an
appropriate length before connecting to trace wire with a mainline to lateral
lug connector.
      (5)   Where the anode wire will be connected to a trace wire access box,
a minimum of two feet of excess/slack wire is required after meeting final
elevation.
   (E)   Installation.
       (1)   Trace wire installation shall be performed in such a manner that
allows proper access for connection of line tracing equipment, proper locating
of wire without loss or deterioration of low frequency (512 Hz) signal for
distances in excess of 1,000 linear feet, and without distortion of signal
caused by multiple wires being installed in close proximity to one another.
      (2)   Trace wire systems must be installed as a single continuous wire,
except where using approved connectors. No looping or coiling of wire is
allowed.
      (3)   Any damage occurring during installation of the trace wire must be
immediately repaired by removing the damaged wire, and installing a new section
of wire with approved connectors. Taping and/or spray coating shall not be
allowed.
      (4)   Trace wire shall be installed at the bottom half of the pipe and
secured (taped/tied) at five- feet intervals.
      (5)   Trace wire must be properly grounded as specified.
      (6)    Trace wire on all service laterals/stubs must terminate at an
approved trace wire access box located directly above the utility, at the edge
of the road right-of-way, but out of the roadway (see division (C) of this
section).
      (7)   At all mainline dead-ends, trace wire shall go to ground using an
approved connection to a drive-in magnesium grounding anode rod, buried at the
same depth as the trace wire (see division (D) of this section).
      (8)   Mainline trace wire shall not be connected to existing conductive
pipes. Treat as a mainline dead end, ground using an approved waterproof
connection to a grounding anode buried at the same depth as the trace wire.
      (9)   All service lateral trace wires shall be a single wire, connected
to the mainline trace wire using a mainline to lateral lug connector, installed
without cutting/splicing the mainline trace wire.
      (10)   In occurrences where an existing trace wire is encountered on an
existing utility that is being extended or tied into, the new trace wire and
existing trace wire shall be connected using approved splice connectors, and
shall be properly grounded at the splice location as specified.
   (F)   Sanitary sewer system.
      (1)   A mainline trace wire must be installed, with all service lateral
trace wires properly connected to the mainline trace wire, to ensure full
tracing/locating capabilities from a single connection point.
      (2)   Lay mainline trace wire continuously, by-passing around the outside
of manholes/structures on the north or east side.
      (3)   Trace wire on all sanitary service laterals must terminate at an
approved trace wire access box color coded green and located directly above the
service lateral at the edge of road right-of-way.
   (G)   Water system.
      (1)   A mainline trace wire must be installed, with all service lateral
trace wires properly connected to the mainline trace wire, to ensure full
tracing/locating capabilities from a single connection point.
      (2)   Lay mainline trace wire continuously, by-passing around the outside
of valves and fittings on the north or east side.
      (3)   Trace wire on all water service laterals must terminate at an
approved trace wire access box color coded blue and located directly above the
service lateral at the edge of road right-of-way.
      (4)   Above-ground tracer wire access boxes will be installed on all fire
hydrants.
      (5)   All conductive and non-conductive service line shall include tracer
wire.
   (H)   Storm sewer system. This section shall be included at the discretion
of the facility owner.
      (1)   If the storm sewer system includes service laterals for connection
of private drains and tile lines, it shall be specified the same as a sanitary
sewer application.
      (2)   Lay mainline trace wire continuously, by-passing around the outside
of manholes/structure on the north or east side.
   (I)   Prohibited products and methods. The following products and methods
shall not be allowed or acceptable:
      (1)   Uninsulated trace wire;
      (2)   Trace wire insulations other than HDPE;
      (3)   Trace wires not domestically manufactured;
       (4)   Non-locking, friction fit, twist on or taped connectors;
      (5)   Brass or copper ground rods;
      (6)   Wire connections utilizing taping or spray-on waterproofing;
      (7)   Looped wire or continuous wire installations, that has multiple
wires laid side-by-side or in close proximity to one another;
      (8)   Trace wire wrapped around the corresponding utility;
      (9)   Brass fittings with trace wire connection lugs;
      (10)   Wire terminations within the roadway, such as in valve boxes,
cleanouts, manholes, and the like; and
      (11)   Connecting trace wire to existing conductive utilities.
   (J)   Testing.
      (1)   All new trace wire installations shall be located using typical low
frequency (512 Hz) line tracing equipment, witnessed by the contractor,
engineer and facility owner as applicable, prior to acceptance of ownership.
      (2)   This verification shall be performed upon completion of rough
grading and again prior to final acceptance of the project.
      (3)   Continuity testing in lieu of actual line tracing shall not be
accepted.
   (K)   Products. The following products have been deemed acceptable and
appropriate. These products are a guide only to help you choose the correct
applications for your tracer wire project.
      (1)   Copper Clad Steel (CCS) trace wire.
         (a)   Open trench: Copperhead #12 high strength part #1230-HS.
         (b)   Directional drilling/boring: Copperhead extra high strength part
#1245*EHS.
         (c)   Pipe bursting/slip lining: Copperhead SoloShot extreme strength
7 × 7 Stranded part #PBX-50.
      (2)   Connectors.
         (a)   Copperhead three-way locking connector part #LSC1230*.
         (b)   DryConn three-way direct bury lug: Copperhead part #3WB-01
      (3)   Termination/Access.
         (a)   Non-roadway access boxes applications: Trace wire access boxes,
grade level Copperhead adjustable lite duty part #LD14*TP.
         (b)   Concrete/driveway access box applications: Trace wire access
boxes, grade level Copperhead part #CD14*TP 14".
         (c)   Fire hydrant trace wire access box applications: Above-ground
two terminal with 1-inch conduit. Copperhead part #3-75-F (Cobra T3 Test
Station, denoting “F” includes mounting flange).
      (4)   Grounding. Drive in magnesium anode: Copperhead part #ANO-1005 (1.5
lb).
   (L)   Manufacture product options. The information provided by Copperhead
Industries gives you product options to help you choose the correct wire,
termination/access points, and connectors and grounding products. Other
manufactures provide these products; this information is only a guide.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fa1637a42d11c5cee408e422b2bce284f755b38c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1114.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fa1637a42d11c5cee408e422b2bce284f755b38c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1116.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fa1637a42d11c5cee408e422b2bce284f755b38c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1118.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fa1637a42d11c5cee408e422b2bce284f755b38c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1120.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fa1637a42d11c5cee408e422b2bce284f755b38c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1122.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fa1637a42d11c5cee408e422b2bce284f755b38c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1124.png]
(Res. 06-01-2017, passed 6-12-2017)
CHAPTER 52: WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   General water regulations
   
52.02   Meters
   
52.03   Plumbing
   
52.04   Water rates
Regulating Nonessential Water Usage
   
52.15   Establishment
   
52.16   Definitions
   
52.17   Application
   
52.18   Declaration of critical water deficiency
   
52.19   Mandatory emergency water conservation measures
   
52.20   Variances
   
52.21   Violations
   
52.22   Enforcement
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 GENERAL WATER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Discontinuance of service. The city may discontinue service to any
water consumer without notice for necessary repairs or, upon notice as provided
in §
51.05(D), for nonpayment of charges, or for violation of rules and regulations
affecting utility service.
   (B)   Supply from one service. No more than one house or building shall be
supplied from one service connection except by special permission of the
Council. Whenever two or more parties are supplied from one pipe connecting
with a service main, each building or part of building separately supplied
shall have a separate stop box and a separate meter.
   (C)   Turning on water, tapping mains. No person except a licensed plumber
or an authorized city employee shall turn on any water supply at the stop box
or tap any distributing main or pipe of the water supply system or insert a
stop cock or other appurtenance therein without a city permit.
   (D)   Repair of leaks. The consumer or owner shall be responsible for
maintaining the service pipe from the curb box into the building service. If he
or she fails to repair any leak in such service pipe within 24 hours after
notice by the city, the city may turn the water off. When the waste of water is
great or damage is likely to result from the leak, the city shall turn the
water off immediately upon the giving of notice if repair is not commenced
immediately. The City Administrator-Treasurer may work a payment schedule at
this discretion.
   (E)   Use of fire hydrants. No person other than an authorized city employee
shall operate a fire hydrant or interfere in any way with the city water system
without first obtaining authority to do so from the City Administrator-
Treasurer.
   (F)   Private water supply. No water pipe of the city water supply system
shall be connected with any pump, well or tank that is connected with any other
source of water supply. When any such connection if found, the City
Administrator-Treasurer shall notify the owner to sever the connection and if
this is not done immediately, the city shall turn off the water supply
forthwith. Before any new connection to the city system is permitted, the
Department shall ascertain that no cross connection will exist when the new
connection is made.
   (G)   Restricted hours. Whenever the Council determines that a shortage of
water supply threatens the city, it may, by resolution, limit the times and
hours during which city water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car
washing, air conditioning or other specified uses. After publication of the
resolution or two days after the mailing of the resolution to each customer, no
person shall use or permit water to be used in violation of the resolution and
any customer who does so shall be charged $100 for each day of violation and
the charge shall be added to his or her next water bill. If the emergency
requires immediate compliance with terms of the resolution, the Council may
provide for the delivery of a copy of the resolution to the premises of each
customer, and any customer who has received such notice and thereafter uses or
permits water to be used in violation of the resolution shall be subject to the
charge provided above. Continued violation shall be cause for discontinuance of
water service.
   (H)   Permitting use by others. No person shall permit city water to be used
for any purpose except upon his or her own premises except in any emergency and
then only if written permission is first obtained from the City Administrator-
Treasurer. Anyone wishing to obtain water from a hydrant for construction
purposes shall make application to the City Administrator-Treasurer’s office
for such services.
(2009 Code, § 402.01) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 METERS.
   (A)   Meters required. Except for the extinguishment of fires, no person
other than an authorized city employee shall use water from the city water
supply system or permit water to be drawn therefrom unless the water passes
through a meter supplied or approved by the city. No person not authorized by
the City Administrator-Treasurer shall connect, disconnect, take apart or in
any manner change or interfere with any such meter or its use.
   (B)   Deposit. A city meter shall be installed by a licensed plumber. A
perpetual care fee shall be set by Council resolution, a copy of which shall be
in §
39.01.
   (C)   Maintenance. The city shall maintain and repair at its expense any
meter that has become unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall
replace it if necessary. Where repair or replacement is made necessary by act
or neglect of the owner or occupant of the premises it serves, any city expense
caused thereby shall be a charge against and collected from the water consumer,
and water service may be discontinued until the cause is corrected and the
amount charged is paid.
   (D)   Complaints/meter testing. When a consumer complains that the bill for
any past service period is excessive, the city shall have the meter reread on
request. If the consumer remains dissatisfied, he or she may, on written
request and the deposit of an amount adopted by Council resolution, a copy of
which is in §
39.01, have the meter tested. If the test shows an error in the individual’s
favor exceeding 5% of the water consumed, the deposit shall be refunded, an
accurate meter shall be installed, and the bill shall not extend back more than
one service period from the date of the written request.
   (E)   Meters property of the city. Water meters shall be the property of the
city and may be removed or replaced as to size and type when deemed necessary.
   (F)   Meter reading and inspection. Authorized meter readers shall have free
access at reasonable hours of the day to all parts of every building and
premises connected with the city water supply system in order to read meters
and make inspections.
   (G)   Owner responsible for service line. On new construction, the property
owner is responsible for installation of new service line from the main to the
home, and must connect to public water if within 200 feet of the existing main.
This includes saddle, corporation, curb stop and curb box. The service line
will be a minimum of one-inch copper or high pressure plastic from the main to
the curb stop. Upon completion of the service line and on existing homes, the
city will be responsible for repairs of the line from the main to the property
owner’s side of the curb stop. Curb stops must be accessible to the city. If
not accessible, the property owner is responsible for costs incurred to gain
access.
(2009 Code, § 402.02) (Ord. passed 2-23-2015)
§ 52.03 PLUMBING.
   (A)   Service pipes. Every service pipe shall be laid with sufficient bend
to allow not less than one foot of extra length and in such manner as to
prevent rupture by settlement. The service pipe shall be placed not less than
six feet below the surface and be so arranged as to prevent rupture by
freezing. A shut off or other stopcock with waste value of the size and
strength required shall be placed close to the inside wall of the building and
be well protected from freezing. Copper tubing or high pressure plastic shall
be used for all services of two inches or less. Joints shall be as few as
possible and not more than one joint shall be used for a service up to 70 feet
in length. Each joint shall be left uncovered until inspected by the city.
Connections with the mains for domestic supply shall be at least three-quarters
of an inch.
   (B)   Water meter setting. Every water meter shall be installed in
accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   The service pipe from the water main to the meter shall be brought
through the floor in a vertical position where the pipe enters the building.
The stop and waste valve shall be 12 inches above the floor.
      (2)   The bottom of the meter shall be 12 inches above the finished floor
line. The meter shall be set not more than 12 inches horizontally from the
inside line of the basement wall unless a different position is approved by the
Public Works Department. A suitable bracket shall be installed to support the
meter in a proper vertical position and prevent noise from vibration.
      (3)   Each meter installation shall have a stop and waste valve on the
street side of the meter. In no case shall more than 12 inches of pipe be
exposed between the point of entrance through the basement floor and the stop
and waste valve. A stop and waste valve shall also be installed on the house
side of the meter.
      (4)   The water pipe connecting with the main shall not exceed two feet
under the basement floor form the inside of the basement wall to the water
meter connection.
      (5)   Meter setting devices for five-eighths-inch, three-quarters-inch
and one-inch meters shall be of copper pipe or tubing from the terminus of the
service pipe up to and including the stop and waste valve of the building site.
   (C)   Location of stop boxes. Curb stop boxes shall be installed generally
where desired by the owners of occupied properties, but they shall by placed as
near as possible to the curb if on a street or within one foot of the alley
line if the main is located in the alley. They shall be installed at an
approximate depth of six feet below the established grade and shall be left in
an accurate vertical position when back filling is completed. Curb stops cannot
be placed in driveways or sidewalks.
(2009 Code, § 402.03)
§ 52.04 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Rate schedule. The City Council shall by resolution adopt a utility
rate schedule which shall be in §
39.01.
   (B)   Service charge. A fee or a penalty per month on the outstanding
balance as referenced in the city’s fee schedule.
   (C)   Demand rate. The City Council shall by resolution adopt a utility
demand rate schedule which shall assess various charges based on the size of
the service. The utility rates shall be in a separate fee schedule.
(2009 Code, § 402.04) (Am. Ord. 52.04, passed 11-13-2024)
REGULATING NONESSENTIAL WATER USAGE
§ 52.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   This subchapter establishes water conservation restrictions, and the plan
will be in effect at any time the Governor declares by executive order a
critical water deficiency, pursuant to M.S. § 103.G291, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(2009 Code, § 402.01.01)
§ 52.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR IN STATUTORY CITIES. The person assigned duties pursuant to
M.S. § 412.151, as it may be amended from time to time; or the City Manager
pursuant to M.S. §§ 412.601 through 412.751, as they may be amended from time
to time, or in charter cities as determined by City Charter.
   DEPARTMENT. The City Water Department.
   EMERGENCY. The declaration of a critical water deficiency by the Governor.
   IRRIGATION. The watering of shrubs, trees, sod, seeded areas, gardens, lawns
or any other outdoor vegetation, except outdoor vegetation utilized for
agricultural purposes.
   NOTIFICATION TO PUBLIC. Notification through local media, including
interviews and issuance of news releases.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIER. The city or other entity that owns, manages or
operates a public water supply, as defined in M.S. § 144.382, Subd. 4, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   RECLAIMED WATER. Water collected from rooftops, paved surfaces or other
collection devices and all water utilized more than once before re-entering the
natural water cycle.
   WATER RECIRCULATION SYSTEM. Any system which enables a user to reuse water
at least once prior to returning the water to the natural water cycle.
(2009 Code, § 402.01.02)
§ 52.17 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all customers of public water suppliers who
own or control water use on any premises.
   (B)   No person shall make, cause, use or permit the use of water received
from a public water supply for residential, commercial, industrial,
governmental or any other purpose in any manner contrary to any provision in
this subchapter.
   (C)   Mandatory emergency conservation measures shall be implemented based
upon the declaration of a critical water emergency by the Governor.
(2009 Code, § 402.01.03) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 DECLARATION OF CRITICAL WATER DEFICIENCY.
   Upon the declaration of a critical water deficiency by the Governor, the
public water supplier shall immediately post notice of the emergency
declaration at the usual meeting place of the City Council, or the official
city bulletin board. The city shall provide notification to the public as
quickly as possible or through established water supply plans emergency
response plans or procedures.
(2009 Code, § 402.01.04)
§ 52.19 MANDATORY EMERGENCY WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon declaration of a water emergency and notification to the public, the
following mandatory restrictions upon nonessential water use shall be enforced.
   (A)   Outdoor irrigation of yards, gardens, golf courses, parklands and
other non-agricultural land, except for those areas irrigated with reclaimed
water, is prohibited.
   (B)   Washing or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis
courts, patios or other paved areas with water from any pressurized source,
including garden hoses, except to alleviate immediate health or safety hazards,
is prohibited.
   (C)   The outdoor use of any water-based play apparatus connected to a
pressurized source is prohibited.
   (D)   Restaurants and other food service establishments are prohibited from
serving water to their customers, unless water is specifically requested by the
customer.
   (E)   Operation of outdoor misting systems used to cool public areas is
prohibited.
   (F)   The filling of swimming pools, fountains, spas or other exterior water
features is prohibited.
   (G)   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers and other types of mobile
equipment is prohibited, except at facilities equipped with wash water
recirculation systems, and for vehicles requiring frequent washing to protect
public health, safety and welfare.
(2009 Code, § 402.01.05)
§ 52.20 VARIANCES.
   The City Administrator-Treasurer, or his or her designee, is authorized to
grant variances to this subchapter where strict application of its provisions
would result in serious hardship to a customer. A variance may be granted only
for reasons involving health or safety. An applicant may appeal the denial of a
variance within five days of the decision by submitting a written appeal to the
City Administrator- Treasurer. The City Council shall hear the appeal at the
next City Council meeting. The decision of the City Council is final.
(2009 Code, § 402.01.06)
§ 52.21 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violations shall be determined and cited by the prosecuting authority
or Sheriffs Department. A violator may appeal the citation within five days of
its issuance by submitting a written appeal to the city. The City Council shall
hear the appeal at the next City Council meeting. The decision of the City
Council is final. Violators may be granted an administrative waiver if evidence
is provided that equipment failure was the cause of the violation. A letter
from a qualified vendor or equipment invoice will be required to show proof of
equipment failure.
   (B)   Upon discovery of a first violation, the violator shall be issued,
either personally or by mail, a warning letter that sets forth the violation
and which shall describe the remedy and fines for future violations.
   (C)   Upon subsequent violations (of §
52.21) as the same location, the violator shall be issued, either personally or
by mail, a citation that sets forth the violation and imposes a fine as set
forth in §
52.99 for that violation and any subsequent violations.
      (1)   Fines shall be added to the monthly water bill of the owner or
current occupant of the premises where the violation occurred.
      (2)   The imposition of the fine shall in no way limit the right of the
city to pursue other legal remedies.
(2009 Code, § 402.01.07) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Administrator-Treasurer or his or her designee is authorized to
designate city employees or law enforcement personnel to enforce the provisions
of this subchapter.
(2009 Code, § 402.01.08)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Upon subsequent violations (of §
52.21) as the same location, the violator shall be issued, either personally or
by mail, a citation that sets forth the violation and imposes a $100 fine for
that violation and any subsequent violations. Fines shall be added to the
monthly water bill of the owner or current occupant of the premises where the
violation occurred. The imposition of the fine shall in no way limit the right
of the city to pursue other legal remedies.
(2009 Code, § 402.01.07)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER USE REGULATIONS
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Control by the Utilities Superintendent
   
53.03   General regulations
   
53.04   Private wastewater disposal
   
53.05   Building sewers and connections
   
53.06   Use of public services
   
53.07   Violations
   
53.08   User rate schedule for charges
   
53.09   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
53.10   Use of sump pumps and discharge of stormwater, ground water and surface
water into sanitary sewer system
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33. U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The City of Red Lake Falls, Minnesota, or its representative
thereof.
   BOD5 or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a draining
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also referred to as a HOUSE CONNECTION or SERVICE
CONNECTION.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Red Lake Falls
as presently established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY, when used herein, may also be used to refer to the
City Council and its authorized representative.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures, and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, PH and
fecal coli-form bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/
SDS permit if the treatment facilities are designated to treat such pollutants
to a degree which complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the
permit.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLI-FORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
humans and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant (defined above) including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRY. Any non-governmental or non-residential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city’s wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES and/or SDS permits. The term
includes of sewage sludge use or disposal by the city in accordance with
published regulations providing guidelines under § 405 of the Act, being 33
U.S.C.
§ 1345 or any regulation developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et
seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or
more stringent state criteria applicable to the method of disposal or use
employed by the city.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by such treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of such treatment facilities, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMITS. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to §§ 402 and 405
of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1342 and 1345, respectively.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added, is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 250 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 250 mg/l.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT.  The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into publicly owned treatment works.
(See definition of NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES)
PERMITS.)
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER.  A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewater from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and
storm sewer
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (5)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (6)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (7)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters
which are not admitted intentionally.
      (8)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
stormwaters, surface runoff, ground water, subsurface water, street wash water,
drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SHALL. Mandatory: MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facility which has a discharge flow:
      (1)   In excess of 25,000 gallons per average work day;
      (2)   Has exceeded 5% of the total flow received at the treatment
facility;
      (3)   Whose waste contains a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts pursuant to
§ 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a); or
      (4)   Whose discharge has significant effect, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal
system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or emissions
generated by the treatment system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the collection
and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirement thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.58, as it may be amended from time to time for a disposal system as defined
by M.S. § 115.01, Subd. 8, as it may be amended from time to time.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent or a deputy, agent or
representative thereof.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS).  The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse effects as defined in standard issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities. See NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city’s wastewater disposal system.
   WASTEWATER.  The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and stormwater that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS OR TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water, including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal or residues resulting from such treatment.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(2009 Code, § 403.01)
§ 53.02 CONTROL BY THE UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Utilities Superintendent shall have control and general supervision of
all public sewers and service connections in the city, and shall be responsible
for administering the provisions of this chapter to the end that a proper and
efficient public sewer is maintained.
(2009 Code, § 403.02)
§ 53.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under jurisdiction, any human or animal excrement, garbage
or objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the city’s NPDES/SDS
permit.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinafter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   The owners(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes from which wastewater is
discharged, and which is situated within the city and adjacent to any street,
alley or may in the future be located, a public sanitary sewer of the city,
shall be required at the owner(s) expense to install a suitable service
connection to the public sewer in accordance with provisions of this code,
within 90 days of the date said public sewer is operational, provided said
public sewer is within 200 feet of the structure generating the wastewater. All
future buildings constructed on property adjacent to the public sewer shall be
required to immediately connect to the public sewer. If sewer connections are
not made pursuant to this section, an official 30-day notice shall be served
instructing the affected property owner to made said connection.
   (E)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under division (D) above, the city must
undertake to have said connection made and shall assess the cost thereof
against the benefitted property. Such assessment, when levied, shall bear
interest at the rate determined by the City Council and shall be certified to
the Auditor of the county, and shall be collected and remitted to the city in
the same manner as assessments for local improvements. The rights of the city
shall be in addition to any remedial or enforcement provisions of this chapter.
(2009 Code, § 403.03) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
53.03(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Prior to commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city.
The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary to the city.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city
or its authorized representative. The city or its representative shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event,
the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of 6 MCAR 4.8040, entitled
“Individual Sewage Treatment System Standards.”
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
serviced by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer within 365 days in compliance with this chapter, and
within 30 days any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater
disposal systems shall be cleaned of sludge. The bottom shall be broken to
permit drainage, and the tank or pit filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the
city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this article shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or the
Department of Health of the state.
(2009 Code, § 403.04)
§ 53.05 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any new connection(s) to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities including,
but not limited to capacity for flow, BOD5 and suspended solids, as determined
by the Superintendent.
   (B)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (C)   Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or authorized
agent and the party employed to do the work and shall state the location, name
of owner, street number of the building to be connected, and how occupied. No
person shall extend any private building drain beyond the limits of the
building or property for which the service connection permit has been given.
   (D)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or any other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the city. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of
activity.
   (E)   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify
the city from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered one building sewer. The city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
connection aforementioned.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent or his or
her representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials or construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the State Building and Plumbing code or applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in the amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (J)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof down spouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirement of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.
All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight, and verified by
proper testing to prevent the inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city prior
to installation.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or authorized representative thereof.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with rancidness and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work, shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (N)   No person shall make a service connection with any public sewer unless
permitted under this chapter to perform such work, and no permit shall be
granted to any person except such regularly licensed.
   (O)   Any person desiring a license to make a service connection with public
sewers shall apply in writing to the City Council with satisfactory evidence
that the applicant or employer is trained, skilled and licensed in the state as
a plumber. All applications shall be referred to the City Administrator-
Treasurer. If approved by the City Administrator-Treasurer, such permit shall
be issued upon the filing a bond as hereinafter provided.
   (P)   No permit shall be issued to any person until a $10,000 bond and/or
certified check to the city, approved by the Council, is filed with the City
Administrator-Treasurer conditioned that the licensee will indemnify and save
harmless the city from all suits, accidents and damage that may arise by reason
of any opening in any street, alley or public ground, made by the licensee or
by those in the licensee’s employment for any purpose whatever, and that the
licensee will replace and restore the street and alley over such opening to the
condition existing prior to installations, adequately guard with barricades and
lights and will keep and maintain the same to the satisfaction of the City
Administrator-Treasurer, and shall conform in all respects to the rules and
regulation of the Council relative thereto, and pay all fines that may be
imposed on the licensee by law.
   (Q)   The permit for each service connection shall be set by City Council
resolution and be in §
39.01. All permits shall expire on December 31 of the permit year unless the
permit is suspended or revoked by the Council for cause.
   (R)   The Council may suspend or revoke any permit issued under this chapter
for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Giving false information in connection with the application for a
permit;
      (2)   Incompetence of the permittee; and
      (3)   Willful violation of any provisions of this chapter or any rules or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connection.
(2009 Code, § 403.05)
§ 53.06 USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
water such as stormwater, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or non-
contact cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet
on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a discharge
permit by the MPCA.
   (C)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
waste water disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, sylene, ethers, alcohols, keteone, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, per chlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstructions to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with
particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
strew, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastic, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel
or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system; and
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act.
   (D)   The following described substances, materials, water or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and/or soil, vegetation and ground water, or will not otherwise endanger lives,
limb public property, or constitute nuisance. The Superintendent may set
limitations lower than limitations established in the regulation below if, in
his or her opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the
above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, the city’s NPDES and/or SDS permit, capacity of the sewage treatment
plant, degree of treat ability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and
other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which
shall not be violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the in fluent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment works resulting in interference therein;
      (2)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substance which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/l emulsified or not;
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentration or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined herein. (See §
53.01.);
      (4)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in §
53.01. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels,
institutions, restaurant, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places
where garbage originates from the preparation of food on the premises or when
served by caterers;
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solution;
      (7)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage or ground
water;
      (8)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in
such quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal
system;
      (9)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (10)   Any water or wastes containing the following substances to such
degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment worked is detrimental to the treatment processes,
adversely impacts land application, adversely affects the receiving waters, or
is in violation of standards pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1317(b). The substances are arsenic, cadmium, copper, cyanide, lead, mercury,
nickel, silver, total chromium, zinc and phenolic compounds which cannot be
removed by city’s wastewater treatment system;
      (11)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule regulation, or ordinance of
any regulatory agency, or state or federal regulatory body;
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of such
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
such materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of division (Q) below.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and/or which in the judgment
of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
treatment facilities, processes or equipment; receiving waters and/or soil,
vegetation and ground water; or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
         (a)   Reject the rates;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the pubic sewers, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act and all addendums thereof;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating
and disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
      (2)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste,
flows, the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment
shall be made at the owner’s expense, and shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
   (F)   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in divisions (C)
and (D) above, or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
or any state requirements.
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained at the expense of
the owner(s).
   (H)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
division (D)(2) above, any flammable wastes as specified in division (C)(1)
above, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by
appropriate means and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of
the collecting materials not performed by the owners’ personnel must be
performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
   (I)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure,
or control manhole, with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of wastes.
Such structure shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed
by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be
safe and accessible at all times.
   (J)   The owner of any property services by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the direction of the city, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests or analysis of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this chapter and any special condition for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analysis
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that compliance with federal, state and local standards are being
met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analysis
to the city at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the city. The
owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analysis and reporting
required by the city. At such times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the
right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an independent
laboratory.
   (K)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, locations, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (L)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
sanitary sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review and approval prior to construction
of the facility. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures
shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the user’s
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users shall
notify the Superintendent immediately upon having a slug or accidental
discharge of substances of wastewater in violation of this chapter to enable
countermeasures to be taken by the Superintendent to minimize damage to the
wastewater treatment works. Such notification will not relieve any user of any
responsibility for any expense, loss or damage to the wastewater treatment
system or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on the city on account
thereof under any state or federal law. Employees shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or discover such a discharge are advised of the
emergency notification procedures.
   (M)   No person, having charge of any building or other premises which
drains into the public sewer, shall permit any substance or matter which may
form a deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30
days after receipt of written notice from the city, the owner shall install a
suitable and sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if one already exists,
shall clean out, repair or alter the same, and perform such other work as the
Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner’s refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair or alter the same
after the period of 30 days, the Superintendent may cause such work to be
completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
   (N)   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or
out of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause such work to be done as
the Superintendent may direct. Each day after seven days that a person neglects
or fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this section, and
the Superintendent may then cause the work to be done, and recover from such
owner or agent the expense thereof by an action in the name of the city.
   (O)   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing
facility shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times, a
catch basin or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil,
dirt or any mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
   (P)   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damages as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes by such person, and may collect such
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the city.
   (Q)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern, providing that national categorical pretreatment standards
and the city’s NPDES and/or state disposal system permit limitations are not
violated.
(2009 Code, § 403.06) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 VIOLATIONS.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 403.07) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 USER RATE SCHEDULE FOR CHARGES.
   Each user of sewer services shall pay the charge(s) applicable to the type
of service as set by City Council resolution. A schedule of these fees shall be
in §
39.01.
(2009 Code, § 403.08)
§ 53.09 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent or other duly appointed employee of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identified, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the city’s sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential; however,
the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees and
the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
53.06(I).
   (D)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within sand easement. All entry and subsequent work, is any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(2009 Code, § 403.09)
§ 53.10 USE OF SUMP PUMPS AND DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER, GROUND WATER AND SURFACE
WATER INTO SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Prohibited water. It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant or use
of any premises to direct into or allow any stormwater, surface water, ground
water, well water or water from industrial or commercial air conditioning
systems to drain into the sanitary sewer system of the city. No rain spout, or
other form of surface drainage and no foundation drainage or sump pump shall be
connected or discharged into any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Sump, pump and rigid pipe required.
      (1)   New subdivisions: all construction. A sump, pump and rigid pipe
discharge connection to the outside shall be required for all construction in
new subdivisions when it is determined necessary by the Public Works Supervisor
or his or her designee to protect sanitary sewer infiltration. The Public Works
Supervisor or his or her assigns shall conduct his or her analysis and make his
or her determination of soil conditions on a subdivision basis. The sump, pump
and rigid pipe discharge requirement will apply to all units constructed within
a specific subdivision.
      (2)   Existing subdivisions: new construction. Any new construction in a
subdivision platted prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be
examined by the Public Works Supervisor or his or her assigns when the footing
inspection is made. At that time the Public Works Supervisor or his or her
assigns will determine, based upon excavated soils, whether the sump, pump and
rigid connection are required. Should the building owner choose the option of
installing a sump, pump and rigid connection where they are not required, they
shall be installed in accordance with divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below.
      (3)   Existing subdivisions; existing construction. Any existing
construction in a subdivision platted prior to the effective date of this
chapter in which a sump and pump have been or will be installed, shall be
required to install a rigid pipe connection discharge in accordance with
division (C)(2) below. It shall be unlawful to maintain any connection with the
sanitary sewer carrying roof water, ground water, surface water or any other
natural precipitation after the effective date of this chapter.
      (4)   Exceptions. In certain locations where surface stormwater discharge
would create a safety hazard during freezing weather, connection to the
sanitary sewer may be maintained from November 1 to March 31. In no case, shall
any connection to the sanitary sewer be maintained from April 1 to October 31.
Exceptions will be granted by permit on a case by case basis as determined by
the Public Works Supervisor or his or her designee. Any property owner
receiving a permit shall pay a seasonal discharge monthly user fee established
in the annual fee chart for use of the sanitary sewer system. The monthly fee
shall be added to and collected with the regular monthly sewer bill of the
property owner. Those sump pumps must be removed from the sanitary sewer before
April 1 and a daily non-compliance fee set by the annual fee chart will be
charged after April 1 for noncompliance.
   (C)   Sump, pump and rigid pipe: method of installation.
      (1)   The building shall have a drain tile placed around the inside or
outside perimeter of the foundation connected to a sump pit. All baseboard
seepage collection systems shall be discharged to the sump pit. The sump pit
shall be located at least ten feet away from the inside sanitary floor drain.
      (2)   A discharge pipe shall be installed to the outside wall of the
building with rigid pipe (plastic, copper, galvanized or black pipe) one inch
inside diameter minimum. The discharge pipe must have a check valve within one
foot of the floor grade and a union or other approved coupling for easy
disconnection for repair or replacement. The discharge shall extend at least
three feet outside of the foundation wall.
      (3)   Alternate methods of installation:
         (a)   The discharge pipe may be connected directly to the municipal
underground storm sewer system provided the discharge is at a higher elevation
than the normal flow level and that an approved backflow prevention device is
installed;
         (b)   The discharge may be connected directly to the municipal curb
and gutter system provided the pipe is placed under the sidewalk or boulevard
and through the back of the curb and that an approved backflow prevention
device is installed; and
         (c)   Any other discharge other than natural body fluids must be
approved by the Public Works Supervisor or his or her assigns.
   (D)   Powers and authority of inspections. The Public Works Supervisor or
his or her assigns and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter upon one day’s notice to occupant.
(2009 Code, § 403.11) (Ord. passed 11-27-2017) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter
other than §
53.10 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
provided for in division (A)(1) above, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined for each violation as permitted by law. Each
day in which any such violation occurs shall be deemed as a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of such violation.
(2009 Code, § 403.10)
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §
53.10 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within a period of 60 days, permanently cease all
violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limited
provided shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof,
shall be fined as allowed by law in the amount not exceeding $200 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation occurred shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      (3)   In the event that the owner fails to correct the situation within
60 days from the date of notice, the city may correct it and collect such costs
together with reasonable attorneys fees and the collection fees by suing the
owner in a court of competent jurisdiction, or in the alternative, by
certifying said costs of correction as any other special assessment upon the
land from which said correction of said violation was made.
(2009 Code, § 403.11)
CHAPTER 54: INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Code adopted
   
54.03   Licensing
   
54.04   Permits
   
54.05   Construction requirements
   
54.06   Administration
   
54.07   Inspection
   
54.08   Maintenance
   
54.09   Objectives
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a building
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other
drainage pipes inside the walls of any building and conveys the same to the
building sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER. The building sewer is that part of the horizontal portion of
the building drainage system extending from the building drain to its
connection with the septic tank and carrying the sewage of but one building.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. An individual sewage disposal system is a
sewage disposal system, other than a public or community system, which receives
sewage from an individual establishment. Unless otherwise indicated, the word
SYSTEM, as it appears in this chapter, means INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   SEWAGE. Any water-carried domestic waste, exclusive of footing and roof
drainage, of any residence, industry or commercial establishment, whether
treated or untreated, and includes the liquid wastes produced by bathing,
laundry and culinary operations and from toilets and floor drains. Raw sewage
is SEWAGE which has not been subject to any treatment process.
(2009 Code, § 404.01)
§ 54.02 CODE ADOPTED.
   Refer to the state regulations regarding subsurface treatment systems set
forth in the Minnesota Administrative Rules, Chapters 7080, 7082 and 7083 and
M.S. §§ 115.55 to 115.58, as they may be amended from time to time. Before
publication of this code of ordinances, the City Administrator- Treasurer shall
mark at least one copy of the Pollution Control Agency Code as an official copy
and file it in his or her office for use and examination.
(2009 Code, § 404.02)
§ 54.03 LICENSING.
   No person shall engage in the business of installing or constructing sewage
disposal systems within the city without first obtaining a license to carry on
such occupation from the City Council and procuring and posting with the City
Administrator-Treasurer a bond in the amount of $2,000 in favor of the city and
the public, conditioned upon the faithful performance of contracts and
compliance with this chapter. Such license shall be renewable annually on or
before December 31 of each year and may be revoked as provided in this code for
licenses generally. Any installation, construction, alteration or repair of a
sewage disposal system by a licensee in violation of the provisions of §
54.02 or refusal on the part of a licensee to correct such defective work
performed by such licensee shall be cause for revocation of or refusal to renew
a license. Before any license issued under the provisions of this section may
be revoked or its renewal refused, the licensee shall be given a hearing to
show cause why such license should not be revoked or refused. Notice of the
time, place and purpose of such hearing shall be in writing. The annual license
fee shall be adopted by City Council resolution, a copy of which shall be in §
39.01. Application for such license shall be made annually on a form furnished
by the City Administrator- Treasurer.
(2009 Code, § 404.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.04 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall install, alter, repair or extend any
individual sewage disposal system in the city without first obtaining a permit
therefor from the Council or its authorized representative for the specific
installation, alteration, repair or extension; and, at the time of applying for
the permit, shall pay a fee which shall be set by City Council resolution and
in §
39.01 shall be valid for a period of six months from date of issue.
   (B)   Applications. Applications for permits shall be made in writing upon
printed blanks or forms furnished by the City Administrator-Treasurer and shall
be signed by the applicant.
   (C)   Contents. Each application for a permit shall have thereon the correct
legal description of the property on which the proposed installation,
alteration, repair or extension is to take place, and each application for a
permit shall be accompanied by a plot plan of the land showing the location of
any proposed or existing buildings located on the property with respect to the
boundary lines of the property and complete plans of the proposed system with
substantiating data, if necessary, attesting the compliance with the minimum
standards of this chapter. A complete plan shall include the location, size and
design of all parts of the system to be installed, altered, repaired or
extended. The application shall also show the present or proposed location of
water supply facilities and water supply piping, and the name of the person who
is to install the system, and shall provide such further information as may be
required by the Council.
(2009 Code, § 404.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.05 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Every individual sewage disposal system installed after the effective date
of this chapter and every alteration, extension and repair to any system made
after that date shall conform to the standards of the code adopted by reference
in §
54.02.
(2009 Code, § 404.05)
§ 54.06 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Building Inspector shall enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(2009 Code, § 404.06)
§ 54.07 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector (official designated in §
54.06) shall make such inspection or inspections as are necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter. No part of the system shall be covered until it
has been inspected and accepted by the Building Inspector. It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant for the permit to notify the Building Inspector
that the job is ready for inspection or re-inspection, and it shall be the duty
of the Building Inspector to make the indicated inspection within 48 hours
after notice has been given. It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of
the property to give the Building Inspector free access to the property at
reasonable times for the purpose of making such inspections. Upon satisfactory
completion and final inspection of the system, the Building Inspector shall
issue to the applicant a certificate of approval.
   (B)   If upon inspection the Building Inspector discovers that any part of
the system is not constructed in accordance with the minimum standards provided
in this chapter, he or she shall give the applicant written notification
describing the defects. The applicant shall pay an additional fee for each re-
inspection that is necessary. The applicant shall be responsible for the
correction or elimination of all defects, and no system shall be placed or
replaced in service until all defects have been corrected or eliminated.
(2009 Code, § 404.07)
§ 54.08 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Sludge measurement and removal. At least once a year, the owner of any
septic tank or his or her agent shall measure or arrange for measurement of the
depth of sludge and scum in such septic tank. When, as a result of such
measurement, the top of the sludge layer in the tank or any compartment of the
tank is found to be less than 12 inches below the bottom of the outlet baffle
or submerged pipe, or if the bottom of the scum layer is less than three inches
above the bottom of the septic tank outlet baffle or submerged pipe, the owner
or agent shall arrange for the removal and sanitary disposal of sludge and scum
from the tank; provided that such requirement for measuring shall be waived for
any septic tank which is cleaned as indicated at least once each calendar year.
   (B)   Removal of solids from distribution box. At least once each year, the
owner of any system equipped with a distribution box and the removal of any
settled solids therein. Such material shall be disposed of to the septic tank
or by other means acceptable to the Council.
   (C)   Seepage pit liquid. At least once between May 1 and June 30 of each
year the depth of liquid in each seepage pit shall be measured. When, as a
result of such measurement it is found that the liquid level in the pit is less
than one foot below the inlet, a second measurement shall be made eight to 12
hours after the first measurement, during which time no liquid shall be
discharged to the seepage pit. If, as a result of the second measurement, it is
found that the liquid level in the pit has not lowered at least two feet during
the indicated period of time, an additional seepage pit or other acceptable
soil absorption system shall be provided.
(2009 Code, § 404.08)
§ 54.09 OBJECTIVES.
   The objective of this chapter is to provide adequate and safe methods of
sewage disposal and to prevent the contamination of any existing or future
water supply by any existing or future sewage disposal system. Any system of
special, unusual or new design which will satisfy the stated objectives may be
accepted as complying with this chapter and any permit granted for the
construction, installation, alteration or repair of any such special system
shall be subject to such conditions and guarantees as may be stated in the
permit.
(2009 Code, § 404.09)
CHAPTER 55: SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM
Section
   
55.01   Definitions
   
55.02   Establishment of a sewer service charge system
   
55.03   Determination of sewer service charges
   
55.04   Utility Fund
   
55.05   Administration
   
55.06   Costs; liens
   
55.07   Validity
§ 55.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATION. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of the
wastewater treatment works (i.e., billing and associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs).
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD5. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city, as presently
established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a future time.
When used herein, the term CITY may also refer to the City Council or its
authorized representative.
   COMMERCIAL. Any place of business which discharges sanitary waste as
distinct from industrial wastewater.
   COMMERCIAL WASTEWATERS. Domestic wastewater emanating from a place of
business as distinct from industrial wastewater.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct said facilities.
   EXTRA STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater having a BOD and/or TSS greater than
domestic waste as defined in NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER below, and not
otherwise classified as an incompatible waste.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Users which are units, agencies or instrumentalities of
federal, state or local governmental discharging normal domestic strength
wastewater.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, created a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
      (1)   Entitles that discharge into a publicly owned wastewater treatment
works, liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in industrial or
manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural resources.
         (a)   These are identified in the Standard Industrial Manual, 1972,
Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemental under one of the
following divisions:
            1.   Division A. Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing; and
            2.   Division B. Mining, Manufacturing. Transportation,
Communication, Electric, Gas and Sanitary Sewers Services.
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be
considered to have the following characteristics:
            1.   BOD5: less than 250 mg/l; and
            2.   Suspended solids: less than 250 mg/l.
      (2)   Any non-governmental user of a publicly owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates public nuisance or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. The liquid processing wastes from an industrial
manufacturing process, trade or business including, but not limited to, all
Standard Industrial Classification Manual Divisions A, B, D, E and I
manufacturers as distinct from domestic wastewater.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Users other than commercial, governmental, industrial or
residential users, discharging primarily normal domestic strength wastewater
(e.g., nonprofit organizations.)
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater that is primarily produced
by residential users, with BOD5 concentrations not greater than 250 mg/l and
suspended solids concentrations not greater than 250 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the
dependable.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   PUBLIC WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. A system of sanitary sewers owned,
maintained, operated and controlled by the city.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facilities whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached and semi-detached housing, apartments and
mobile homes; and which discharges primarily normal domestic strength sanitary
wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users of the city’s wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditures of
the SEWER SERVICE FUND will be for operation, maintenance and replacement
costs; and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditures for wastewater
treatment.
   SHALL. Mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION MANUAL. Office of Management and Budget,
1972.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects.
   USERS CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the user’s
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   USERS. Those residential, commercial, governmental, institutional and
industrial establishments which are connected to the public sewer collection
system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community, also referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and stormwater that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or refuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
(2009 Code, § 406.01) (Ord. passed 2-12-1990)
§ 55.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF A SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a sewer service charge system whereby all
revenue collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities will be
used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance and
replacement and for debt service on capital expenditure incurred in
constructing the wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation maintenance
and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the user’s proportionate
contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
   (C)   Each user shall pay debt service charges to retire local capital costs
as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Sewer service rates and changes to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be determined and fixed in a “sewer service charge system”
developed according to the provisions of this chapter. The sewer service charge
system shall be adopted by resolution upon enactment of this chapter.
   (E)   Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a separate
fund known as “Utility Fund.” Income from revenues collected will be expended
to offset the cost of operation, maintenance and equipment replacement for the
facility and to retire the debt for capital expenditure.
   (F)   Sewer service charges and the Utility Fund will be administered in
according with the provisions of §§
55.04 and
55.05.
(2009 Code, § 406.02) (Ord. passed 2-12-1990)
§ 55.03 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Users of the city wastewater treatment works shall be identified
as belonging to one of the following classes:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Commercial;
         (c)   Industrial;
         (d)   Institutional; and
         (e)   Governmental.
      (2)   The allocation of users to these categories for the purpose of
assessing user charges and debt service charges shall be the responsibility of
the City Administrator-Treasurer. Allocation of users to user classes shall be
based on the substantive intent of the definitions of these classes contained
herein.
   (B)   Each user shall pay operation, maintenance and replacement costs in
proportion to the user’s proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and
loadings to the treatment plant, with the minimum rate for loading of BOD and
TSS being the rate established for concentrations of 250 mg/l and 250 mg/l TSS
(that is, Normal domestic strength wastewater). Those “industrial users”
discharging segregated “normal domestic strength wastewater” only, can be
classified as “commercial users” for the purpose of rate determination.
   (C)   User charges for normal domestic strength users.
      (1)   Calculating billable flows and loadings; measurement of wastewater
volume. The charges assessed residential users and those users of other classes
discharging “normal domestic strength wastewater” shall be established
proportionately according to billable wastewater volume. Billable wastewater
volume shall be calculated as follows:
         (a)   Residential users. Billable wastewater volume for residential
users shall be calculated on the basis of metered water usage. The per monthly
billable wastewater volume shall be equal to monthly metered water usage as
averaged between the first and last months of the calendar year. The city may
require residential users to install water meters for the purpose of
determining billable wastewater volume.
         (b)   Nonresidential users.
            1.   The billable wastewater volume of nonresidential users may be
determined in the same manner as for residential users. Except that if the city
determines that there are significant variations in the metered water usage of
nonresidential users resulting in a proportionate increase in wastewater
volume; then billable wastewater volume shall be:
            2.   Calculated on the basis of monthly metered water usage as
recorded throughout the year, or calculated on the basis of wastewater flow
meters.
            3.   The city may, at its discretion, require nonresidential users
to install such additional water meters of wastewater flow meters as may be
necessary to determine billable wastewater volume.
            4.   Determination of loadings from metered water usage: the
billable amounts of BOD and TSS will be calculated from the volume of metered
water usage, as determined above; where the billable quantities will be those
attributable to wastewater at a concentration of 250 mg/1 BOD and 250 mg/l TSS
(i.e., “normal domestic strength wastewater”).
      (2)   Determination of user charges for normal domestic strength users.
User charges for normal domestic strength users shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Calculation of unit costs for treatment of normal domestic
strength wastewater:
 
      Un   = Comr
                 Tbwv
              Unit cost for operation, maintenance and replacement to treat
Where: Un   = normal domestic strength: in accordance with
              Chapter 53
      Comr = (Total annual OM & R costs) - charge collected to treat
              concentrations greater than normal domestic strength
      Tbwv = Total annual billable wastewater volume in kgal
 
         (b)   Calculation of user charge for normal domestic strength
wastewater:
 
      Uc  = UN x bwv
Where: Uc  = User charge
      Un  = Unit cost for operation, maintenance and replacement to treat
             normal domestic strength, in $/kgal
      bwv = Billable wastewater volume of a particular user in kgal
 
   (D)   User charges for users discharging wastes with concentrations greater
than normal domestic strength:
      (1)   Calculating billable flows and loadings.
         (a)   Calculation of billable flows. The billable amount of flow will
be calculated from the volume of metered water usage, or at the discretion of
the city, from the measurement of effluent flow at user’s point of discharge.
Measurements shall be according to a regular program prescribed by the city.
         (b)   Calculation of billable loadings.
            1.   The billable amounts of BOD and TSS will be calculated by the
measurement of these wastes according to a program prescribed by the city in
keeping with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater and in accordance with this title of the city code.
            2.   To ensure compliance with division (C) above, the following
procedures shall be followed in determining average loadings per billing period
for industrial users:
               a.   When a particular reading indicates concentration greater
than or equal to normal domestic strength, the actual reading shall be entered
into the average for billing purposes; and
               b.   When a particular reading indicates concentrations less
than normal domestic strength, normal domestic strength shall be entered into
the average for billing purposes.
      (2)   Determination of user charges for greater than normal domestic
strength users.
         (a)   Calculation of unit costs for treatment of flow, BOD, TSS.
            1.   For purposes of determining proportionate surcharges, unit
costs for treatment of flow, BOD and TSS shall be determined and fixed annually
in the sewer service charge system according to the following procedure:
               a.   Determine the Annual OM & R budget.
               b.   Allocate total Annual OM & R costs to FLOW, BOD and TSS
proportionately; according to the costs of collection and treatment of FLOW,
BOD and TSS.
               c.   Divide the OM & R costs attributable to FLOW, BOD and TSS
respectively, by the total annual billable volume and loadings of FLOW, BOD and
TSS to arrive at unit costs.
            2.   For purposes of determining surcharges, the following
definitions of unit costs shall apply:
 
Uf   = Unit cost for treatment of FLOW in $/kgal
Ubod = Unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lb
Utss = Unit cost for treatment of TSS in $/lb
     Unit costs are developed from actual cost per kgal. Subsequent
    calculations of unit costs shall be according to the substantive intent of
     this SSCS.
 
         (b)   Calculation of user charges for treatment of wastewater with
concentrations exceeding that of normal domestic strength wastewater:
Uc   = [Un x bwv] + [Ubod x K x bwv (Cbod-Nbod)] + [Utss x K x bwv (Ctss-Ntss)]
Uc   = User charge
Un   = Unit cost for the treatment of normal domestic strength wastewater
bwv  = Billable wastewater volume of a particular user in kgal
Ubod = Unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lb
K    = 0.00834
Cbod = Users concentration of BOD in mg/l
Nbod = 250 mg/l (concentration of BOD in normal domestic strength wastes)
Utss = Unit cost for treatment of TSS in $/lb
Ctss = Users concentration of TSS, in mg/l
Ntss = 250 mg/l (concentration of TSS in normal domestic strength wastes)
 
   (E)   Determination of sewer service charges: the sewer service charge for a
particular connection shall be determined as follows:
 
      SSC = Uc + Cc
Where: SSC = Sewer service charge
      Uc  = User charge
      Cc  = Connection charge for debt service
 
(2009 Code, § 406.03) (Ord. passed 2-12-1990)
§ 55.04 UTILITY FUND.
   (A)   (1)   The city hereby established a “Utility Fund” as an income fund
to receive all revenues generated by the utility charge system, and all other
income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement and construction of
the wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special charges, fees and
assessments intended to retire construction debt.
      (2)   The city also establishes the following accounts as income and
expenditure accounts within the Utility Service Fund.
         (a)   Operation and Maintenance Accounts;
         (b)   Equipment Replacement Accounts; and
         (c)   Debt Retirement Accounts.
   (B)   All revenue generated by the Utility Service Fund, all other income
pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special assessments
dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the City Administrator-
Treasurer separate and apart from all other funds of the city. Funds received
by the Utility Service Fund shall be recorded in the Utility Fund in accordance
with state and federal regulations and the provisions of this ordinance.
   (C)   Revenue generated by the Utility Service Fund sufficient to ensure
adequate replacement throughout the design or useful life, whichever is longer,
of the wastewater facility and revenue sufficient for operation and maintenance
shall be maintained in the Utility Fund.
(2009 Code, § 406.04) (Ord. passed 2-12-1990)
§ 55.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   The utility service charge system and Utility Fund shall be administered
according to the following provisions.
   (A)   The City Administrator-Treasurer shall maintain a proper system of
accounts suitable for determining the operation and maintenance, equipment
replacement and debt retirement costs of the treatment works, and shall furnish
the City Council with a report of such costs annually in the city. The City
Council shall annually determine whether or not sufficient revenue is being
generated for the effective operation, maintenance, replacement and management
of the treatment works, and whether sufficient revenue is being generated for
debt retirement. The Council will also determine whether the user charges are
distributed proportionately to each user in accordance with §
55.02(B). The city shall thereafter, but not later than the end of the year,
reassess, and as necessary revise the utility service charge system then in use
to ensure the proportionality of the user charges and to ensure the sufficiency
of funds to maintain the capacity and performance to which the facilities were
constructed, and to retire the construction debt.
   (B)   Bills for utility service charges shall be rendered on a monthly basis
succeeding the period for which the service was rendered and shall be due 15
days from the date of rendering. Any bill not paid in full 15 days after the
due date will be considered delinquent. At that time, the city shall notify the
delinquent owner/occupant in writing regarding the delinquent bill and
subsequent finance charges and penalties, as per the city’s fee schedule.
   (C)   The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
such premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only
upon the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefor to the
city.
   (D)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxins or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the dischargers of said
wastes, at no expense to the city.
(2009 Code, § 406.05) (Ord. passed 2-12-1990)
§ 55.06 COSTS; LIENS.
   (A)   Each and every sewer service charge levied by and pursuant to this
chapter is hereby made a lien upon the lot or premises served, and all such
charges which are on September 1 of each year past due and delinquent shall, at
the discretion of the City Council, be certified to the County Auditor as taxes
or assessments to real estate. Nothing in this chapter shall be held or
construed as in any way stopping or interfering with the right of the city to
levy as taxes or assessments against any premises affected any delinquent or
past due sewer service charges.
   (B)   As an alternative to levy a lien, the city may, at its discretion,
file suit in a civil action to collect such amounts as are delinquent and due
against the occupant, owner or user of the real estate, and shall collect as
well as all attorney’s fees incurred by the city in filing the civil action.
Such attorney’s fees shall be fixed by order of the court.
   (C)   In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and chargeable to
recording notices of the lien or filing a civil action, the owner or user of
the real estate being serviced by the treatment works shall be liable for
interest upon all unpaid balances at the rate of 8% or the maximum rate
allowable by law.
(2009 Code, § 406.05) (Ord. passed 2-12-1990)
§ 55.07 VALIDITY.
   (A)   If any section or division of this chapter shall be held invalid, the
invalidity thereof shall not affect the validity of the other provisions of
this chapter, which shall continue in full force and effect.
   (B)   The sewer service charge system shall take precedence over any terms
or conditions of agreements or contracts which are inconsistent with the
requirements of § 204(b)(1)(A) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284(b)(1)(A) and
40 C.F.R. § 35.2140 of the Environmental Protection Agency’s grant regulations.
(2009 Code, § 406.06) (Ord. passed 2-12-1990)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   MOTOR VEHICLES
      
71.   SNOWMOBILES, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, RECREATIONAL ON-ROAD VEHICLES, GOLF
CARTS
      
72.   BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Turning
   
70.03   Through streets; one-way streets
   
70.04   Seasonal weight restrictions
   
70.05   Parking regulations
   
70.06   Truck zones, loading zones and the like
   
70.07   Bus stops and taxi stands
   
70.08   Establishment of safety zones, lanes or traffic and the like
   
70.09   Removing keys
   
70.10   Exhibition driving prohibited
   
70.11   Prohibited brake noise and exhaust
   
70.12   Police duties
   
70.13   Violations
   
70.14   Trail regulations
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Any terms in this chapter and defined in M.S. § 169.011 has the meaning
given it by that section.
(2009 Code, § 701.01)
§ 70.02 TURNING.
   (A)   Restriction on turns. The Council, by resolution, may, whenever
necessary to preserve a free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents, designate
any intersection as one where the turning of vehicles to the left or to the
right, or both, is to be restricted at all times or during specified hours. The
City Council shall require any intersection so designated to be marked by
appropriate signs. No intersection on a truck highway shall be so designated
until the consent of the Commissioner of Transportation to such designation is
first obtained. No person shall turn a vehicle at any such intersection
contrary to the directions on such signs.
   (B)   U-turns. No person driving a motor vehicle shall make a U-turn at a
place other than an intersection. Any U-turn shall be made by clearly stopping
at each quadrant, getting a clear view of the traffic repeating the procedure
until a full U-turn is made.
(2009 Code, § 701.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 THROUGH STREETS; ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The Council, by resolution, may designate any street or portion of street as
a through highway or a one-way roadway where necessary to preserve the free
flow of traffic or to prevent accidents. The Council shall require that
appropriate signs be posted at the entrance to such street. No truck highway
shall be so designated unless the consent of the Commissioner of Transportation
to such designation is first secured.
(2009 Code, § 701.03)
§ 70.04 SEASONAL WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Council may prohibit the operation of vehicles upon any street
under its jurisdiction or impose weight restrictions on vehicles to be operated
on such street whenever the street, by reason of deterioration, rain, snow or
climatic conditions, will be seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of
vehicles on the street is prohibited or the permissible weights thereof
reduced. He or she shall erect and maintain signs plainly indicating the
prohibition at each end of that portion of the street affected. No person shall
operate a vehicle on a posted street in violation of the prohibition or
restriction.
(2009 Code, § 701.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No parking, stopped or standing zones. The City Council may, by
resolution, designate certain streets or portions of streets as no parking or
no stopping or standing zones and may limit the hours in which the restrictions
apply. The City Council shall require each zone so designated to be marked by
appropriate signs. Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic
or in compliance with the directions of a police or a traffic control device,
no person shall stop or park a vehicle in an established no stopping or
standing zone when stopping or standing is prohibited. No vehicle shall be
parked in a no-parking zone during hours when parking is prohibited, except
that a vehicle may be parked temporarily in such zone for the purpose of
forming a funeral procession and a truck may be parked temporarily between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any business day for the purpose of loading
or unloading where access to the premises is not otherwise available.
   (B)   Time limit parking zones. The City Council may, by resolution,
designate certain areas where the right to park is limited during hours
specified. The City Council shall require each zone so designated to be marked
by appropriate signs. During the hours specified on the sign, no person shall
park a vehicle in any limited parking zone for a longer period than is so
specified.
   (C)   General time limit. No vehicle shall be parked for more than 30
minutes between 2:00 and 6:00 a.m., and no vehicle shall in any case be parked
upon any street in any one place for a longer continuous period than 48 hours.
   (D)   Impoundment. Any police officer may remove a vehicle from a street to
a garage or other place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended and
constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal or street
improvements or maintenance operations. Such vehicle shall not be released
until the fees for violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Prima facie violation. The presence of any motor vehicle on any street
when standing or parking in violation of this chapter is prima facie evidence
that the registered owner of the vehicle committed or authorized the commission
of the violation.
(2009 Code, § 701.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 TRUCK ZONES, LOADING ZONES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Establishment. The City Council may, by resolution, establish spaces
in streets as loading zones or truck zones. The hours of 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
of any day except Sundays, New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, July 4, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day or such other time as the City Council may
specify in the resolution establishing the zones shall be the loading zone or
truck zone hours. The City Council shall require be the loading zone to be
marked by appropriate signs.
   (B)   Truck zone prohibitions. During truck zone hours, no person shall
stop, stand or park any vehicle except a truck in a truck zone. No person shall
stop, stand or park a truck in a truck zone during truck zone hours except to
receive or discharge passengers or freight and then only for a period no longer
than is necessary for the purpose.
   (C)   Loading zone prohibitions. During loading zone hours, no person shall
stop, stand or park any vehicle in a loading zone except to receive or
discharge passengers or freight and then only for a period no longer than is
necessary for the purpose. No person shall occupy a loading zone with a vehicle
other than a truck for more than five minutes during such hours.
   (D)   Property owner initiative. Any person desiring the establishment of a
loading zone abutting premises occupied by him or her shall make written
application therefore to the City Council. If the Council grants the request,
the proper city officer shall bill the applicant for the estimated cost of
placing signs and of painting the curb. When the amount is paid to the City
Administrator-Treasurer, the City Administrator-Treasurer or his or her agent
shall install the necessary signs and paint the curb.
   (E)   No truck parking zones. The Council may by resolution establish “No
Truck Parking” zones in the business distinct and the city staff shall mark by
appropriate signs any zones so established. Such zones shall be established in
the business district where heavy traffic by trucks or other traffic congestion
makes parking by trucks a hazard to the safety of vehicles or pedestrians. No
person shall park a truck of more than one-ton capacity between 6:00 a.m. and
6:00 p.m. on any weekday upon any street in any such zone, but parking of such
vehicle for a period of not more than 30 minutes shall be permitted in such
zone for the purpose of having access to abutting property when such access
cannot conveniently be secured otherwise.
(2009 Code, § 701.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.07 BUS STOPS AND TAXI STANDS.
   (A)   Designation. The City Council, by resolution, may designate spaces on
streets in the city where vehicles engaged in carrying passengers for hire
shall stand or park. The County Sheriffs Department shall mark by appropriate
sign any bus stop or taxi stand so established.
   (B)   Parking restrictions. Except for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers, no driver of any vehicle other than a bus shall stand or park at a
bus stop and no driver of any vehicle other than a taxicab shall stand or park
in a taxi stand.
   (C)   Bus and taxi parking. No driver of any bus shall stand or park the bus
upon any street, except at a bus stop. Except for the purpose of loading or
unloading passengers or for a reasonable time while on personal errands, no
driver of any taxicab shall stand or park upon any street except at a taxi
stand.
(2009 Code, § 701.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF SAFETY ZONES, LANES OR TRAFFIC AND THE LIKE.
   To assist in the direction and control of traffic, to improve safe driving
conditions at any intersection or dangerous location and to warn pedestrians or
drivers of motor vehicles of dangerous conditions of hazards, the County
Sheriff may establish safety zones, lanes of traffic and stop intersections,
and he or she may order installation by the city staff of stop signs, yield
signs, warning signs, established pavement markings or other devices. No
regulation may be established on a truck highway unless the consent of the
Commissioner of Transportation is first secured.
(2009 Code, § 701.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.09 REMOVING KEYS.
   No person shall leave a motor vehicle, except a truck which is engaged in
loading or unloading, unattended on any street, used car lot or unattended
parking lot without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, and
removing all ignition keys from the vehicle.
(2009 Code, § 701.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.10 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel, or in a manner simulating a race. Unreasonable squealing by the tires
sounds emitted by tires or the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires is prima
facie evidence of a violation of the section.
(2009 Code, § 701.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.11 PROHIBITED BRAKE NOISE AND EXHAUST.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to intentionally use an
engine-retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot or alley
within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise from the engine
because of an illegally modified or defective exhaust system, except in an
emergency.
   (A)   Statutes adopted by reference. M.S. §§ 169.69 and 169.693, as it may
be amended from time to time, (motor vehicle noise limits) and Minn. parts
7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as these statutes and rules may be amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   Signs to be posted. Signs stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” may be
installed at locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise
motorists of the prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign
stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” shall be installed on a state highway
without a permit from the State Department of Transportation. The provisions of
this section are in full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE.  
         (a)   Distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort and repose of any person or
precludes a person’s enjoyment of property or affects the property’s value;
         (b)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.69, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires every motor vehicle to be equipped
with a muffler in good working order; or
         (c)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.693, as it may
be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules parts 7030.1000 through
7030.1050, as this statute and these rules may be amended from time to time,
which establish motor vehicle noise standards.
      ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE. A Dynamic Brake, Jake Brake, Jacobs Brake, C-
brake, Paccar Brake, transmission brake or other similar engine retarding brake
system which alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases that compression.
   (D)   Prohibited exhaust and noise. It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge the exhaust or permit the discharge of the exhaust from any motor
vehicle except through a muffler that effectively prevents abnormal or
excessive noise and complies with all applicable state laws and regulations.
(2009 Code, § 701.11.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.12 POLICE DUTIES.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and
the state traffic laws.
   (B)   Police officers are authorized to direct all traffic within the city,
either in person or by means of visible or audible signal, in conformity with
this chapter and the state traffic laws. During a fire or other emergency or to
expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department
may direct traffic as conditions require notwithstanding the provisions of this
chapter and the state traffic laws. Officers of the Fire Department may direct
or assist the police in directing traffic at the scene of a fire or in the
immediate vicinity.
(2009 Code, § 701.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.13 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of
a petty misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 701.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.14 TRAIL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. Any terms used in this chapter and defined in M.S. §
169.011, as it may be amended from time to time, has the meaning given it by
that section.
   (B)   Property. Property affected by this section shall be deemed to be the
property located within the city limits of the city, more properly described as
being the Burlington Northern Railroad bed and bridge beginning where State
Trunk Highway 32 is located on the south boundary of the city to the railroad
bridge crossing the Red Lake River on the northeastern comer of the city. This
property is described in a deed dated July 28, 1989 and recorded in the office
of the County Recorder October 3, 1989 in book 136 of records, page 19.
   (C)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or
operate any motor vehicle on the above described real estate with the exception
of a snowmobile.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 701.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: SNOWMOBILES, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, RECREATIONAL ON-ROAD VEHICLES,
GOLF CARTS
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Scope of application
   
71.03   Operation
   
71.04   Special orders
   
71.05   Direct crossings
   
71.06   Yielding the right-of-way
   
71.07   Unlawful act
   
71.08   Equipment
   
71.09   Emergencies
   
71.10   Animals
   
71.11   Signal from officer to stop
   
71.12   Certain statutes adopted
   
71.13   ATV and ROV permits
   
71.14   Golf cart permits
   
71.15   Applicable statute
   
71.16   Violations
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE AND RECREATIONAL ON-ROAD VEHICLE. A motorized floatation
tired vehicle as defined by M.S. § 84.92(8), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   DEADMAN THROTTLE or SAFETY THROTTLE. A device which when pressure is removed
from the engine accelerator or throttle causes the motor to be disengaged from
the driving mechanism.
   GOLF CART. A three- or four-wheel vehicle designed commercially for the
primary purpose of golfing, powered by gas or electricity which does not exceed
15 mph.
   NATURAL TERRAIN. Areas other than streets or driveways (private or public),
parking lots and other areas the surface of which has been intentionally
modified for motor vehicle operation thereon.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile or all-
terrain vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle or golf cart.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having the property in or title
to a snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle or golf cart or entitled to the use or
possession thereof.
   RECREATIONAL ON-ROAD VEHICLE AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. A motorized floatation
tired vehicle as defined by M.S. § 84.92, as it may be amended from time to
time.
    SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
steered by skis or runners.
(2009 Code, § 702.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   Notwithstanding provisions of this chapter to the contrary, this section
shall apply to control of traffic and regulation of those certain classes of
vehicles falling within the definition of snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles or
golf carts as to matters set forth herein.
(2009 Code, § 702.02)
§ 71.03 OPERATION.
   Except as otherwise herein permitted, it is unlawful for any person to
operate a snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle or golf cart vehicle not licensed as
a motor vehicle as follows:
   (A)   On State Highway #32 inside the city limits unless crossing said
highway at a 90-degree angle or during an emergency as herein otherwise
provided;
   (B)   On the portion of any right-of-way of any street used for motor
vehicle travel, except that a snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle, recreational on-
road vehicle or golf cart may operate upon the most right-hand lane of a street
and may in passing or making a left-hand turn operate on other lances which are
used for vehicle traffic in the same direction;
   (C)   On all public sidewalks provided for pedestrian travel, except to
cross the same at a 90-degree angle. Excluding licensed ATV, ROV and licensed
golf carts on the sidewalk between Oak Knolls golf course and Dow Avenue SE;
   (D)   On boulevards within any public right-of-way, except where sign-posted
and designated pursuant to resolution of the Council;
   (E)   On the private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of the property;
   (F)   At a rate of speed greater than 15 mph, and in no event greater than
reasonable or proper under all surrounding circumstances;
   (G)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner or heedlessly
in disregard of the rights or safety of others or in a manner so as to endanger
or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or property;
   (H)   So as to tow any person or thing except through use of a rigid tow bar
attached to the rear of the snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle;
   (I)   At any place while under the influence of alcohol or drugs as defined
in M.S. §§ 169A.20, 84.87, 84.928 and 84.91, as they may be amended from time
to time, which are incorporated herein by reference; or at any place while
having an open container of alcohol as defined in M.S. § 169A.35 Subd. 3, as it
may be amended from time to time;
   (J)   Within 50 feet of any pedestrian, fisherman, skating rink or sliding
area where the operation would conflict with the safe use of, or endanger other
persons or property;
   (K)   Except while traveling in a direct route to a public or private area
where operation is unrestricted except as to requirements of state statutes.
This limitation shall not be construed to prevent the use of snowmobiles or
all-terrain vehicles and recreational on-road vehicles to travel to and from
the driver’s place of employment, or for all-terrain vehicles licensed under §
71.13 as an alternative mode of transportation and or for snow removal; or for
golf carts licensed under §
71.14 as an alternative mode of transportation;
   (L)   Snowmobiles and ATVs and ROVs must have front and rear lights being
lit at all times while on public streets;
   (M)   For all-terrain vehicles, recreational on-road vehicles and golf
carts, on any portion of the bike path excluding the area between First Street
and Harren Drive, which shall be open for licensed ATV, ROV and licensed golf
cart travel;
   (N)   All operators must yield to all oncoming pedestrian traffic on the
bike path by pulling to the right shoulder and stopping;
   (O)   All operators overtaking and passing a pedestrian on the bike path
must do so in a slow and safe manner at speeds no greater than five mph;
   (P)   All operators must come to a complete stop and allow pedestrians to
safely cross the bridge before proceeding onto the railroad bridge between
Harren Drive and First Street; or
   (Q)   For all-terrain vehicles, recreational on-road vehicles and golf carts
after sunset and before sunrise or in inclement weather or when visibility is
impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other conditions, or at any time when there
is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on a roadway at a
distance of 500 feet.
(2009 Code, § 702.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 SPECIAL ORDERS.
   In addition to the regulations herein provided for, it is unlawful to
operate a snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle, recreational on-road vehicle or golf
cart on any public place where prohibited by order of the Council.
(2009 Code, § 702.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 DIRECT CROSSINGS.
   A snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle, recreational on-road vehicle or golf cart
may make a direct crossing of a street or highway, provided:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
   (B)   The snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle, recreational on-road vehicle or
golf cart is brought to a complete stop before crossing the shoulder or main
traveled way;
   (C)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
   (D)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made only at
an intersection of the street or highway with another public street or highway.
(2009 Code, § 702.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 YIELDING THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It is unlawful for any person operating a snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle or
golf cart to enter any intersection without yielding the right-of-way to any
vehicles or pedestrians at the intersection or so close to the intersection as
to constitute an immediate hazard.
(2009 Code, § 702.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 UNLAWFUL ACT.
   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle,
recreational on-road vehicle or golf to permit the snowmobile, all-terrain
vehicle or golf to be operated contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(2009 Code, § 702.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08 EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle,
or recreational on-road vehicle any place within the city unless it is equipped
with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cut-out, by-pass, straight pipe or similar device on
a snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle motor;
   (B)   Braking system equipped with a rear facing brake light and adequate to
control the movement of and to stop and hold the snowmobile, all-terrain
vehicle, or recreational on-road vehicle under any condition of operation; and
   (C)   A safety or so-called “deadman” throttle in operating condition.
(2009 Code, § 702.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 EMERGENCIES.
   Notwithstanding the prohibition of operating a snowmobile, all-terrain
vehicle, or recreational on- road vehicle upon a street to the contrary, a
snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle, or recreational on-road vehicle may be
operated on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time
when and at locations where snow upon the street renders travel by automobile
impractical.
(2009 Code, § 702.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.10 ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful to intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal
with a snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle, recreational on-road vehicle or golf
cart.
(2009 Code, § 702.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.11 SIGNAL FROM OFFICER TO STOP.
   It is unlawful for a snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle, recreational on-road
vehicle or golf cart operator, after having received a visible or audible
signal from any peace officer, to come to a stop or to:
   (A)   Operate a snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle, recreational on-road
vehicle or golf cart in willful or wanton disregard of the signal;
   (B)   Interfere with or endanger the peace officer or any other person or
vehicle; or
   (C)   Increase operator’s speed or attempt to flee or elude the officer.
(2009 Code, § 702.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.12 CERTAIN STATUTES ADOPTED.
   M.S. §§ 84.81 through 84.928, as they may be amended from time to time,
inclusive, as amended, together with rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder, are adopted by reference, incorporated herein and made a part
hereof, except as otherwise provided herein.
(2009 Code, § 702.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.13 ATV AND ROV PERMITS.
   (A)   All ATVs and ROVs must have a permit from the city for the operation
of an all-terrain vehicle pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The application for the permit shall be available from the City
Administrator-Treasurer.
   (C)   The application for the permit shall be available from the City
Administrator-Treasurer, shall be completed, and shall be submitted to the City
Administrator-Treasurer, along with an application fee, which fee is to be
established by the Council by resolution from time to time.
   (D)   The application shall be reviewed by the City Administrator-Treasurer
and a permit shall be issued by the City Administrator-Treasurer, should the
application qualify.
   (E)   The applicant must demonstrate evidence of insurance complying with
the provisions of M.S. § 65B.48, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   The permit may be granted for a period of not to exceed one year and
may be annually renewed.
   (G)   All permits shall be effective from January 1 through December 31 of
each year.
   (H)   Operators must be age 16 or greater holding a valid driver’s license
recognized by the state, and where necessary, a Department of Natural
Resource’s public use license (M.S. § 84.922, as it may be amended from time to
time) permitting operation of all-terrain vehicles and on-road recreational
vehicles; the permit to be issued under this section shall only be valid during
the time and under the circumstances that the applicant’s driver’s license
would allow operation of a motor vehicle in the state.
   (I)   The permit may be revoked at any time if there is evidence that the
permit holder, has allowed the illegal operation, cannot safely or legally
operate, or has not safely or legally operated, the all-terrain vehicle and on-
road recreational vehicle within the city or if the applicant’s driver’s
license is no longer recognized as valid in the state. An applicant may appeal
any such revocation or denial to the City Council by filing notice of appeal at
the City Administrator-Treasurer’s office not later than 14 days after the date
of notice of the action to be appealed from.
   (J)   The city shall honor ATV and ROV permits issued by neighboring cities
within a 30-mile radius which have similar ordinances.
   (K)   The permit must be displayed on the registered ATV and ROV along with
the State DNR public use license under M.S. § 84.922, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(2009 Code, § 702.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.14 GOLF CART PERMITS.
   (A)   All golf carts must have a permit from the city for the operation of a
golf cart pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The application for the permit shall be available from the City
Administrator-Treasurer, shall be completed, and shall be submitted to the City
Administrator-Treasurer, along with an application fee, which fee is to be
established by the Council by resolution from time to time.
   (C)   The application shall be reviewed by the City Administrator-Treasurer
and a permit shall be issued by the City Administrator-Treasurer, should the
application qualify.
   (D)   The applicant must demonstrate evidence of insurance complying with
the provisions of M.S. § 65B.48, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (E)   The permit may be granted for a period of not to exceed one year and
may be annually renewed.
   (F)   All permits shall be effective from January 1 through December 31 of
each year.
   (G)   Operators must be age 16 or greater holding a valid driver’s license
recognized by the state. The permit to be issued under this section shall only
be valid during the time and under the circumstances that the applicant’s
driver’s license would allow operation of a motor vehicle in the state.
   (H)   (1)   The permit may be revoked at any time if there is evidence that
the permit holder has allowed the illegal operation, cannot safely or legally
operate, or has not safely or legally operated the golf cart within the city or
if the applicant’s driver’s license is no longer recognized as valid in the
state.
      (2)   An applicant may appeal any such revocation or denial to the City
Council by filing notice of appeal at the City Administrator-Treasurer’s office
not later than 14 days after the date of notice of the action to be appealed
from.
   (I)   The permit must be displayed on the rear of the registered golf cart
along with a slow moving vehicle sign.
(2009 Code, § 702.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.15 APPLICABLE STATUTE.
   All provisions of state statute that apply to the operation of snowmobiles,
ATVs, ROVs and golf carts upon streets and alleys, except for those which by
their nature, have no application or are inconsistent with this chapter.
(2009 Code, § 702.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.16 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of
a petty misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 702.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Laws of operation
   
72.03   Parents responsibility
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Any device propelled by human power, upon which any person may ride
having two, three or four tandem wheels and any device generally recognized as
a bicycle equipped with front or rear tires.
   GOLF CART. A motorized cart specifically designed to carry golfers and
equipped with such devices as to properly secure their equipment.
   JOGGER. Any person afoot and traveling at a rate of speed such that both
feet are at intervals not in contact with the ground.
   PATHWAY. The portion of a park or parkway improved, designated or ordinarily
used for travel by foot and/or wheeled device. The part of a trail or pathway
as designated as such by the city not used for motor vehicles except
snowmobiles.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any device that is powered by a motor and that
consists of two, three or four wheels and is intended for the purpose of
recreating. Any device designed to carry one or more persons and which can
reach varied speeds at any given time. Any wheeled device generally recognized
as a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   ROLLER SKATER. Any person riding or propelling oneself by human power or
gravity on wheeled devices that are worn on a person’s feet or stood upon by a
person. Such devices specifically include, but are not limited to, roller
skates, in-line skates, roller skis and skateboards.
   WALKER. Any person afoot and traveling at a rate of speed such that one foot
is always in contact with the ground.
(2009 Code, § 511.07(2)) (Ord. passed 9-9-1996)
§ 72.02 LAWS OF OPERATION.
   The following laws of operation shall be observed at all times.
   (A)   Every person riding a bicycle, skating device or golf cart upon a
public roadway shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as
practical, exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or when a
vehicle is proceeding in the same or opposite direction.
   (B)   Motorized or battery powered vehicles used specifically for the
purpose of transporting the elderly or disable persons are permitted to be on
the trail.
   (C)   Persons riding a bicycle upon a public roadway shall not ride more
than two abreast.
   (D)   No person shall operate a skating device or bicycle habitually or as
to annoy or loiter in front of any business establishment during the hours of
operation, except for the exclusive purpose of transacting business.
   (E)   Whenever a person is operating a skating device or bicycle upon a
sidewalk or pathway, such person shall yield right of way to any walker or
jogger and shall give audible sign before overtaking any such pedestrian.
   (F)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at a time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (G)   Whenever a useable pathway has been provided adjacent to a roadway
bicycles, skaters, joggers and walkers shall use such path by staying to the
right of the path as to allow for the easy flow of traffic on the path.
   (H)   It is unlawful for any person riding upon any bicycle, roller skates,
skateboard, sled, coaster or toy vehicle to attach same or himself or herself
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
   (I)   Any person using a pathway or sidewalk while accompanied by a domestic
animal shall at all times maintain control over the animal and keep the animal
on a leash. Any person accompanied by a domestic animal shall remove any
defecation left by their animal within city limits. Any person with an animal
shall at all times yield the right of way to other person(s) and shall not
interfere or allow the animal to interfere with other person(s) activities. No
walker or jogger may be accompanied by more than two animals. No biker or
roller skater may be accompanied by more than one animal.
   (J)   Horseback riding is strictly prohibited on or along any paved pathways
and sidewalks within the city limits unless the riding takes place in an area
designated for that purpose.
   (K)   No person shall deposit, dump or leave any refuse, debris or litter on
any pathway, sidewalk or roadway within the city.
   (L)   No person shall mutilate, deface, kill, damage, disturb or by any
means injure any property or natural property along any pathway, sidewalk,
roadway or in any open spaces within the city.
   (M)   No person shall use the pathways, sidewalks or roadways carelessly,
recklessly or heedlessly in disregard of the rights or the safety of others.
   (N)   The speed of bicycles, joggers and skaters shall be so restricted as
may be necessary in order to avoid colliding with another and to maintain
oneself in the general flow of movement at that time and location.
(2009 Code, § 511.07(2)) (Ord. passed 9-9-1996) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PARENTS RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is unlawful for the parents of any minor child or the guardian of any
ward to authorize or knowingly permit his or her child or ward to violate any
provision of this chapter.
(2009 Code, § 511.07(3)) (Ord. passed 9-9-1996) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating or convicted of violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, which has a fine of up to $1,000 and/or
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, plus costs of prosecution in
any case or as permitted by state law. Persons violating any provision of this
chapter may have their bicycles, skateboards or other violating device
impounded for a period not to exceed seven days, at the discretion of the
arresting officer.
(2009 Code, § 511.07(4)) (Ord. passed 9-9-1996)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Angle parking
   
II.   Loading; no truck parking
   
III.   Winter parking
SCHEDULE I. ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Angle parking shall be required on the following streets:
 
Side       Street          Location
North side Second Street   Between Champagne and Main Avenues
West side  Broadway Avenue Between Sixth and Seventh Street
 
   (B)   On any such street, every vehicle parked shall be parked with the
front of the vehicle facing the curb or the edge of the traveled portion of the
street at an angle of approximately 45 degrees and facing between the painted
or other markings on the curb or street indicating the parking space. On all
other streets, cars shall be parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway
in accordance with the law.
(2009 Code, § 701.05)
SCHEDULE II. LOADING; NO TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   Establishment. The City Council may by resolution establish spaces in
streets as loading zones or truck zones. The hours of 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. of
any day except Sundays, New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, July 4, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day or such other time as the City Council may
specify in the resolution establishing the zones shall be the loading zone or
truck zone hours. The City Council shall require be the loading zone to be
marked by appropriate signs.
   (B)   Semi trailer parking. No person shall allow a semi trailer to stand
unattached from a tractor unit for any length of time on any street in the city
except on Third Street, west of Polk Avenue and east of Polk or in an emergency
in order to change tractors.
(2009 Code, § 701.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. WINTER PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle or permit it to stand on any
street in any of the following places at any of the following times between
November 1 and April 15; both dates inclusive:
   (A)   On Main Avenue (Highway 32) between the hours of 2:00 a.m. to 6:00
a.m. on any day;
   (B)   On the north and west sides of all streets and avenues on odd numbered
days from 2:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.;
   (C)   On the south and east sides of all streets and avenues on even
numbered days from 2:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.;
   (D)   In any alley of the city between the hours of 2:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.;
or
   (E)   On any other street as determined by the City Council and indicated by
appropriately posted signs.
   (F)   The City Council reserves the right to designate other dates by
emergency resolution as may be necessary in certain snow emergencies.
(2009 Code, § 701.08) (Ord. passed - -2021; Ord. passed - - )  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   OUTSIDE STORAGE OF WOOD
      
92.   OUTDOOR RADIO AND TELEVISION ANTENNAS
      
93.   JUNKED VEHICLES AND APPLIANCES
      
94.   CITY PARK REGULATIONS
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   TREE DISEASES AND PLANTING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Dogs and cats
   
90.03   Non-domestic animals
   
90.04   Farm animals
   
90.05   Impounding
   
90.06   Kennels
   
90.07   Barking/crying/whining dogs
   
90.08   Seizure of animals
   
90.09   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city
   
90.10   Diseased animals
   
90.11   Dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs
   
90.12   Dangerous animals (excluding dogs)
   
90.13   Basic care
   
90.14   Breeding moratorium
   
90.15   Enforcing officer
   
90.16   Pound
   
90.17   Interference with officers
   
90.18   Fighting animals
   
90.19   Feeding stray cats and dogs
   
90.20   Guidelines allowing chickens within the city limits
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL.  Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, domestic animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS.  Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, farm
animals shall include members of the equine family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese),
swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, ratitae (ostriches
and emus), farm raised cervidae (caribous and mule deer), llamas and alpacas
and other animals associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, non-domestic animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE.  Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
    CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Animal Control Officer or other
person in charge of the pound for the release of any animal that has been taken
to the pound. A release permit may be obtained upon payment of a fee to the
City Administrator-Treasurer in accordance with the regular license requirement
if the animal is unlicensed, payment of a release fee, and any maintenance
costs incurred in capturing and impounding the animal. The release fee shall be
as established in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant
to §
39.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 90.02 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A
person, who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a
responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and direction of a
responsible person, so as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash,
shall be permitted in streets or on public land unless the city has posted an
area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats Prohibited”.
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   All dogs over the age of six months kept, harbored, or maintained
by their owners in the city, shall be licensed and registered with the city.
Dog licenses shall be issued by the City Administrator-Treasurer upon payment
of the license fee as established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and
Charges adopted pursuant to §
39.01 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time. The
owner shall state, at the time application is made for the license and upon
forms provided, his or her name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex
of each dog owned or kept by him or her. No license shall be granted for a dog
that has not been vaccinated against distemper and rabies, as evidenced by a
certificate by a veterinarian qualified to practice in the state in which the
dog is vaccinated.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog subject to this section
to pay to the City Administrator-Treasurer the license fee established in the
Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
39.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Upon payment of the license fee as established by the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
39.01 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time, the
City Administrator-Treasurer shall issue to the owner a license certificate and
metallic tag for each dog licensed. The tag shall have stamped on it the year
for which it is issued and the number corresponding with the number on the
certificate. Every owner shall be required to provide each dog with a collar to
which the license tag must be affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag
are constantly worn. In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate shall
be issued by the City Administrator- Treasurer. A charge shall be made for each
duplicate tag in an amount established in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and
Charges adopted pursuant to §
39.01, as it may be amended from time to time. Dog tags shall not be
transferable from one dog to another and no refunds shall be made on any dog
license fee or tag because of death of a dog or the owner’s leaving the city
before the expiration of the license period.
      (4)   The licensing provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to
dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the city, nor to dogs
brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog show. Service
animals do not require a license.
      (5)   The funds received by the City Administrator-Treasurer from all dog
licenses and metallic tags fees as established by the Ordinance Establishing
Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
39.01 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time, shall
first be used to defray any costs incidental to the enforcement of this
chapter; including, but not restricted to, the costs of licenses, metallic
tags, and impounding and maintenance of the dogs.
   (C)   Cats. Cats shall be included as controlled by this division insofar as
running-at-large, pickup, impounding, boarding, licensing and proof of anti-
rabies vaccine is concerned. All other provisions of this section shall also
apply to cats unless otherwise provided.
   (D)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained, or transported within
the city shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed
veterinarian for:
         (a)   Rabies - with a live modified vaccine; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner’s name and address, the animal’s name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian’s signature. Upon demand made by the City Administrator-Treasurer,
the Animal Control Officer or a police officer, the owner shall present for
examination the required certificate(s) of vaccination for the animal(s). In
cases where certificates are not presented, the owner or keeper of the animal
(s) shall have seven days in which to present the certificate(s) to the City
Administrator-Treasurer or officer. Failure to do so shall be deemed a
violation of this section.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   Except as provided in M.S. § 346.155, as it may be amended from time to
time, it shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for
sale, any non-domestic animal within the city. Any owner of a non-domestic
animal at the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to
remove the animal from the city after which time the city may impound the
animal as provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this
prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall only be kept in an agricultural district of the city, or
on a residential lot of at least ten acres in size provided that no animal
shelter shall be within 300 feet of an adjoining piece of property. An
exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought into the city
as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
§ 90.05 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. Any unlicensed animal running at large is hereby
declared a public nuisance. Any Animal Control Officer or police officer may
impound any dog or other animal found unlicensed or any animal found running at
large and shall give notice of the impounding to the owner of the dog or other
animal, if known. The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter
the property of the owner of an animal found running at large or the owner of
an unlicensed animal unless the officer has first obtained the permission of
the owner to do so or has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal. In case the owner is unknown, the
officer shall post notice at the city office that if the dog or other animal is
not claimed within the time specified in division (C) of this section, it will
be sold or otherwise disposed of. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
it shall be unlawful to kill, destroy, or otherwise cause injury to any animal,
including dogs and cats running at large.
   (B)   Biting animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the city pound for a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of the time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for the confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner’s choosing, not outside of the county in which this city is located, and
provide immediate proof of confinement in the manner as may be required, the
owner may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner’s property.
   (C)   Reclaiming. For the purposes of this section regular business day
means a day during which the establishment having custody of the animal is open
to the public at least four consecutive hours between 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with humane treatment and
sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five regular business
days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under §
90.11 in which case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or the
times specified in §
90.11, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit as
established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to
§
39.01 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
      (2)    Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee as
established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to
§
39.01 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time, and
valid certificate of vaccination for rabies and distemper shots is required.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals. At the expiration of the times established in
division (C) of this section, if the animal has not been reclaimed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the officer appointed to
enforce this section may dispose of the unclaimed animal in a manner permitted
by law. Any money collected under this section shall be payable to the City
Administrator-Treasurer.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition of kennel. The keeping of three or more dogs on the same
premises, whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose
kept, shall constitute a “kennel”; except that a fresh litter of pups may be
kept for a period of three months before that keeping shall be deemed to be a
“kennel”.
   (B)   Kennel as a nuisance. Because the keeping of three or more dogs on the
same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons in the
area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general aesthetic depreciation, the
keeping of three or more dogs on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel within the city.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 BARKING/CRYING/WHINING DOGS.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner’s or
caretaker’s premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person’s dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
§ 90.08 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any police officer or Animal Control Officer may enter upon private property
and seize any animal with the permission of the owner of the property, if that
person is also the owner of the animal, provided that the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Animal Control Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
90.07(A); the criteria for cruelty set out in §
90.13; or the criteria for an at large animal set out in
§
90.02(A);
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one previous
complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that the
animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
animal and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed or
have been ignored;
   (E)   The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter the
property of the owner of an animal described in this section unless the officer
has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or has obtained a
warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal. If the officer has the permission of
the owner, a property manager, landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized person
to enter the property or has obtained a pass key from a property manager,
landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized person to have that key shall not be
considered unauthorized entry, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal
need not be obtained; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the animal is not possible.
§ 90.09 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or the Animal Control Officer or
police officer, an animal presents an immediate danger to the health and safety
of any person, or the animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the
animal is in the process of attacking any person, the person or officer may
destroy the animal in a proper and humane manner whether or not the animal is
on the property of its owner. Otherwise, the person or officer may apprehend
the animal and deliver it to the pound for confinement under §
90.05. If the animal is destroyed, the owner or keeper of the animal destroyed
shall be liable to the city for the cost of maintaining and disposing of the
animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examination. If the animal is found
not to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to
the owner or keeper in accordance with §
90.05(C).
§ 90.10 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the city, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal is not required.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person, the Animal Control Officer or a police
officer. The officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If
the animal is found to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the
health and safety of the city, the officer shall cause the animal to be
painlessly killed and shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or
keeper of the animal killed under this section shall be liable to the city for
the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any
veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
the regulatory and procedural provisions of M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.565 (commonly
referred to as the “Dangerous Dog Regulations”), as they may be amended from
time to time, are adopted by reference.
   (B)   Definitions. Definitions in this section shall have the following
meanings:
      (1)   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has when unprovoked, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Has killed a domestic animal when unprovoked while off the
owner’s property;
         (c)   Has attacked one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (d)   Has been found to be potentially dangerous and after the owner
has notice of the same, the dog aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly
accepted as domesticated household pets.
      (3)   GREAT BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which creates a high probability
of death, or which causes serious permanent disfigurement, or which causes a
permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member
or organ or other serious bodily harm.
      (4)   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, corporation, organization,
department, or association owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, having an
interest in, or having care, custody or control of a dog.
      (5)   MAINTENANCE COSTS. Any costs incurred as a result of seizing an
animal for impoundment, including, but not limited to, the capturing,
impounding, keeping, treating, examining, securing, confining, feeding,
destroying, boarding or maintaining seized animals, whether these services are
provided by the city or the pound.
      (6)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.  A dog that:
         (a)   Has when unprovoked, inflicted a bite on a human or domestic
animal on public or private property;
         (b)   Has when unprovoked, chased or approached a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks or any public or private
property, other than the owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of attack;
or
         (c)   Has a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (7)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the dog from escaping
and to provide protection for the dog from the elements. A proper enclosure
does not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other
structure that would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the dog from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the dog in any manner without human assistance. A pen or kennel
shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   A minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support post shall be one and one-fourth inch or larger steel pipe
buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided,
the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and openings in the wire shall not exceed two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches. The gate shall be self-closing and self-locking. The gate shall be
locked at all times when the dog is in the pen or kennel.
      (8)   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM.  Bodily injury that involves a temporary
but substantial disfigurement, or that causes a temporary but substantial loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ or that causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
      (9)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the dog is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (C)   Declaration of dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
      (1)   A police officer, community service officer, animal control officer
or other authorized city employee may declare a dog to be dangerous or
potentially dangerous when the officer has probable cause to believe that a dog
is dangerous or potentially dangerous. The following factors will be considered
in determining a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog:
         (a)   Whether any injury or damage to a person by the dog was caused
while the dog was protecting or defending a person or the dog’s offspring
within the immediate vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault.
         (b)   The size and strength of the dog, including jaw strength, and
the animal’s propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals.
         (c)   Whether the dog has wounds, scarring, is observed in a fight, or
has other indications that the dog has been or will be used, trained or
encouraged to fight with another animal or whose owner is in possession of any
training apparatus, paraphernalia or drugs used to prepare such dogs to fight
with other animals.
      (2)   Beginning six months after a dog is declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous, an owner may request annually that the city review the
designation. The owner must provide evidence that the dog’s behavior has
changed due to the dog’s age, neutering, environment, completion of obedience
training or other factors. If enough evidence is provided, the city may rescind
the designation.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   The provisions of this section do not apply to dogs used by law
enforcement.
         (b)   Dogs may not be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous if
the threat, injury, or danger was sustained by a person who was:
            1.   Committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner of the dog;
            2.   Provoking, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or who
can be shown to have a history of repeatedly provoking, tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the dog; or
            3.   Committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (D)   License required. The owner must annually license dangerous and
potentially dangerous dogs with the city and must license a newly declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog within 14 days after notice that a dog
has been declared dangerous or potentially dangerous. Regardless of any appeal
that may be requested, the owner must comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52 (a) and (c), as it may be amended from time to time regarding proper
enclosures and notification to the city upon transfer or death of the dog,
until and unless a hearing officer or court of law reverses the declaration.
      (1)   Process for dangerous dogs. The city will issue a license to the
owner of a dangerous dog if the owner presents sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   Written proof that there is a surety bond by a surety company
authorized to conduct business in Minnesota in the sum of at least $300,000,
payable to any person injured by a dangerous dog, or receipt of a copy of a
policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance company authorized to do
business in Minnesota in the amount of at least $300,000, insuring the owner
for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog. Such surety bond or
insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the bond or policy will
be made unless the city is notified in writing by the surety company or the
insurance company at least ten days prior to such cancellation;
         (c)   The owner has paid the annual license fee for dangerous dogs as
established in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to
§
39.01 of this code.
         (d)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification number
of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the microchip is not
implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the owner’s expense;
and
         (e)   The owner provides proof that the dog has been sterilized. If
the owner does not sterilize the dog within 30 days, the city may seize the dog
and sterilize it at the owner’s expense.
      (2)   Process for potentially dangerous dogs. The city will issue a
license to the owner of a potentially dangerous dog if the owner presents
sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   The owner has paid the annual license fee;
         (c)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
potentially dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and
identification number of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the
microchip is not implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the
owner’s expense.
      (3)   Inspection. A pre-license inspection of the premises to insure
compliance with the city code is required. If the city issues a license to the
owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, the city shall be allowed at
any reasonable time to inspect the dog, the proper enclosure and all places
where the animal is kept.
      (4)   Warning symbol. The owner of a dangerous dog licensed under this
section must post a sign with the uniform dangerous dog warning symbol on the
property in order to inform children that there is a dangerous dog on the
property. The sign will be provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (5)   Tags. A dangerous dog licensed under this section must wear a
standardized, easily identifiable tag at all times that contains the uniform
dangerous dog symbol, identifying the dog as dangerous. The tag shall be
provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (6)   License fee. The city will charge the owner an annual license fee
for a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog as established in the Ordinance to
Establish Fees and Charges as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Properly restrained in proper enclosure or outside of proper
enclosure. While on the owner’s property, an owner of a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog must keep it in a proper enclosure. Inside a
residential home, there must be a secured area maintained where the dog will
stay when persons other than family members are present. If the dog is outside
the proper enclosure, the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial
chain or leash no longer than four feet and under the physical restraint of an
adult. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will prevent the dog from
biting any person or animal but that will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration.
   (F)   Notification requirements to city.
      (1)   Relocation or death. The owner of a dog that has been declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous must notify the City Administrator-Treasurer
in writing if the dog is to be relocated from its current address or if the dog
has died. The notification must be given in writing within 30 days of the
relocation or death. The notification must include the current owner’s name and
address, and the new owner’s name and the relocation address. If the relocation
address is outside of the city, the city may notify the local law enforcement
agency of the transfer of the dog into its jurisdiction.
      (2)   Renter’s obligations. A person who owns or possess a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog and who will rent property from another where the dog
will reside must disclose to the property owner prior to entering the lease
agreement and at the time of any lease renewal periods that the person owns or
possesses a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog that will reside at the
property. A dog owner, who is currently renting property, must notify the
property owner within 14 days of city notification if the owned dog is newly
declared as dangerous or potentially dangerous and the owner keeps the dog on
the property.
      (3)   Transfer of ownership into the city. No dog that has been
previously determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous by another
jurisdiction shall be kept, owned or harbored in the city unless the dog’s
owner complies with the requirements of this section prior to bringing the dog
into the city. Dogs in violation of this division are subject to impoundment
and destruction.
   (G)   Seizure. Animal control may immediately seize any dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog if:
      (1)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous, the dog is not validly licensed and no
appeal has been filed;
      (2)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or surety coverage as
required or such required insurance is cancelled;
      (3)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure;
      (4)   The dog is outside the proper enclosure and not under proper
restraint, as required by §
90.11(E);
      (5)   After 30 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the dog is not sterilized, as required by §
90.11(D)(1)(e);
      (6)   The dog’s microchip has been removed.
   (H)   Reclamation. A dog seized under §
90.11(G) may be reclaimed by the owner of the dog upon payment of maintenance
costs, and presenting proof to animal control that the requirements of this
section have been met. A dog not reclaimed under this division within seven
days may be disposed of and the owner will be liable to the city for
maintenance costs. A person claiming an interest in a seized dog may prevent
disposition of the dog by posting a security in an amount sufficient to provide
for the dog’s maintenance costs. The security must be posted with the city
within seven days of the seizure inclusive of the date seized.
   (I)   Subsequent offenses: seizure. If a person has been convicted of
violating a provision of this section, and the person is charged with a
subsequent violation relating to the same dog, the dog may be seized. If the
owner is convicted of the crime for which the dog was seized, the court may
order that the dog be destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner pay
the maintenance costs. If the owner is not convicted and the dog is not
reclaimed by the owner within seven days after the owner has been notified that
the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be disposed of in manner permitted by
law.
   (J)   Notice, hearings.
      (1)   Notice. After a dog has been declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous or has been seized for destruction, the city shall give notice by
delivering or mailing it to the owner of the dog, or by posting a copy of it at
the place where the dog is kept, or by delivering it to a person residing on
the property, and telephoning, if possible. The notice shall include:
         (a)   A description of the seized dog; the authority for and purpose
of the declaration and seizure; the time, place, and circumstances under which
the dog was declared; and the telephone number and contact person where the dog
is kept;
         (b)   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the declaration and that failure to do so within 14 days of the date
of the notice will terminate the owner’s right to a hearing;
         (c)   A statement that if an appeal request is made within 14 days of
the notice, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52, paragraphs (a) and (c), as it may be amended from time to time,
regarding proper enclosures and notification to the city upon transfer or death
of the dog, until such time as the hearing officer issues an opinion;
         (d)   A statement that if the hearing officer affirms the dangerous
dog declaration, the owner will have 14 days from receipt of that decision to
comply with all other requirements of M.S. § 347.51, 347.515, and 347.52, as
they may be amended from time to time;
         (e)   A form to request a hearing; and
         (f)   A statement that if the dog has been seized, all maintenance
costs of the care, keeping, and disposition of the dog pending the outcome of
the hearing are the responsibility of the owner, unless a court or hearing
officer finds that the seizure or impoundment was not reasonably justified by
law.
      (2)   Right to hearing.
         (a)   After a dog has been declared dangerous, potentially dangerous
or has been seized for destruction, the owner may appeal in writing to the city
within 14 days after notice of the declaration or seizure. Failure to do so
within 14 days of the date of the notice will terminate the owner’s right to a
hearing. The owner must pay a $100 fee for an appeal hearing.
         (b)   The appeal hearing will be held within 14 days of the request.
The hearing officer must be an impartial employee of the city or an impartial
person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
         (c)   If the declaration or destruction is upheld by the hearing
officer, actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000, as well as
all maintenance costs, will be the responsibility of the dog’s owner. The
hearing officer shall issue a decision on the matter within ten days after the
hearing. The decision shall be delivered to the dog’s owner by hand delivery or
registered mail as soon as practical and a copy shall be provided to the city.
The decision of the hearing officer is final.
   (K)   Destruction of certain dogs. The Police Chief and/or hearing officer
are authorized to order the destruction or other disposition of any dog, after
proper notice is given pursuant to §
90.11(J) and upon a finding that:
      (1)   The dog has habitually destroyed property or habitually trespassed
in a damaging manner on property of persons other than the owner;
      (2)   The dog has been declared dangerous, the owner’s right to appeal
hereunder has been exhausted or expired, and the owner has failed to comply
with the provisions of this section;
      (3)   It is determined that the dog is infected with rabies;
      (4)   The dog inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on
public or private property without provocation;
      (5)   The dog inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private
property without provocation;
      (6)   The dog bit multiple human victims on public or private property in
the same attack without provocation;
      (7)   The dog bit a human on public or private property without
provocation in an attack where more than one dog participated in the attack; or
      (8)   The dog poses a danger to the public’s health, safety or welfare.
In determining whether the dog poses a danger to the public’s health, safety or
welfare, the following factors may be considered:
         (a)   The dog weighs more than 20 pounds;
         (b)   The strength of the dog, including jaw strength;
         (c)   The dog’s tolerance for pain;
         (d)   The dog’s tendency to refuse to terminate an attack;
         (e)   The dog’s propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals;
         (f)   The dog’s potential for unpredictable behavior;
         (g)   The dog’s aggressiveness;
         (h)   The likelihood that a bite by the dog will result in serious
injury.
   (L)   Concealing of dogs. No person may harbor, hide or conceal a dog that
the city has the authority to seize or that has been ordered into custody for
destruction or other proper disposition.
   (M)   Dog ownership prohibited.
      (1)   Except as provided below, a person shall not own a dog if the
person has been:
         (a)   Convicted of a third or subsequent violation of §
90.11(D), (E) or (F) or similar ordinance in another jurisdiction, or M.S. §§
347.51, 347.515 or 347.52, as they may be amended from time to time;
         (b)   Convicted of 2nd degree manslaughter due to negligent or
intentional use of a dog under M.S. § 609.205(4), as it may be amended from
time to time; or
         (c)   Convicted of gross misdemeanor harm caused by a dog under M.S. §
609.226, Subd. 1 as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Any person who owns a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog and is
found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this section or had owned
a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog but never achieved compliance with
this section may be prohibited from ownership or custody of another dog for a
period of five years after the original declaration. Any dog found to be in
violation, may be impounded until due process is completed, pursuant to §
90.11(J).
      (3)   If any member of a household is prohibited from owning a dog in §
90.11(M)(1) or (2), unless specifically approved with or without restrictions
by the city, no person in the household is permitted to own a dog.
   (N)   Dog ownership prohibition review. Beginning three years after a
conviction under §
90.11(M)(1) that prohibits a person from owning a dog, and annually thereafter,
the person may request in writing to the Police Chief that the city review the
prohibition. The city may consider such facts as the seriousness of the
violation or violations that led to the prohibition, any criminal convictions,
or other facts that the city deems appropriate. The city may rescind the
prohibition entirely or rescind it with limitations. The city also may
establish conditions a person must meet before the prohibition is rescinded,
including, but not limited to, successfully completing dog training or dog
handling courses. If the city rescinds a person’s prohibition and the person
subsequently fails to comply with any limitations imposed by the city or the
person is convicted of any animal violation involving unprovoked bites or dog
attacks, the city may permanently prohibit the person from owning a dog in this
state.
   (O)   Penalties.
      (1)   Unless stated otherwise, any person who violates a provision of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person who is convicted of a second or subsequent violation of
any provision of §
90.11(D), (E), or (F) is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.
      (3)   Any person who violates §
90.11(M), whether an owner or household member, is guilty of a gross
misdemeanor.
§ 90.12 DANGEROUS ANIMALS (EXCLUDING DOGS).
   (A)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person’s animal to
inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to dogs as
regulated by §
90.11.
   (B)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance with
the terms established by this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public or
private property;
         (b)   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
         (d)   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely locked
pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to provide
protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure
in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be 1¼-inch or larger steel pipe buried in the
ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls
shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      (4)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic
animal as stated in division (C)(2). When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the potentially
dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially
dangerous.
   (E)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
      (1)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (C)
(1).
      (2)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1).
   (F)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
   (G)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The Animal Control
Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain an
order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal from
a court of competent jurisdiction, unless the animal is already in custody or
the owner consents to the seizure and destruction of the animal.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City
Administrator- Treasurer’s office shall be admissible for consideration by the
Animal Control Officer without further foundation. After considering all
evidence pertaining to the temperament of the animal, the City Council shall
make an order as it deems proper. The City Council may order that the Animal
Control Officer take the animal into custody for destruction, if the animal is
not currently in custody. If the animal is ordered into custody for
destruction, the owner shall immediately make the animal available to the
Animal Control Officer. If the owner does not immediately make the animal
available, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain an order or warrant
authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal from a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found by to be
dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (H)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Animal Control Officer is
witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer
may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an
end and prevent further injury to the victim.
   (I)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in
writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner's name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
   (J)   Dangerous animal requirements.
      (1)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of
an animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
         (a)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in §
90.12(C)(3);
         (b)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property;
         (c)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
         (d)   If the animal is outside the proper enclosure, the animal must
be muzzled (if physically possible depending on the type of animal) and
restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed six feet in length)
and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of age or older. The
muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the animal from biting any person or
animal, but will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration;
         (e)   The animal shall have a microchip implant as provided by M.S. §
347.515, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (f)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Officer shall
be registered with the county in which this city is located within 14 days
after the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof thereof
to the Animal Control Officer.
         (g)   If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date with
rabies vaccination.
      (2)   Seizure. As authorized by M.S. § 347.54, as it may be amended from
time to time, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any dangerous
animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements within 14 days
after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is dangerous.
Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and petition
upon the city and filing it with the district court.
      (3)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under §
90.12(J)(2), may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control that each
of the requirements under §
90.12(J)(1), is fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this section within 14
days may be disposed of as provided under §
90.12(F), and the owner is liable to the city for costs incurred in confining
and impounding the animal.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under §
90.12 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by animal control. The
owner may request a hearing as defined in §
90.12(G). If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the Animal Control Officer shall order the animal destroyed
in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of confining
the animal. If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for
which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal under the
provisions of §
90.12(J)(3). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days
after the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the
animal may be disposed of as provided under §
90.12(F) and the owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred
in confining, impounding and disposing of the animal.
§ 90.13 BASIC CARE.
   (A)   Generally. All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind
treatment, housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their
comfort. Any person not treating their pet in a humane manner will be subject
to the penalties provided in this section.
   (B)   Dogs and cats. Dogs and cats must be provided the following basic
care.
      (1)   Food. Dogs and cats must be provided with food of sufficient
quantity and quality to allow for normal growth or the maintenance of body
weight. Feed standards shall be those recommended by the National Research
Council.
      (2)   Water. Dogs and cats must be provided with clean, potable water in
sufficient quantity to satisfy the animal’s needs or supplied by free choice.
Snow or ice is not an adequate water source.
      (3)   Transportation and shipment. When dogs or cats are transported in
crates or containers, the crates or containers must be constructed of non-
abrasive wire or a smooth, durable material suitable for the animals. Crates
and containers must be clean, adequately ventilated, contain sufficient space
to allow the animals to turn around, and provide maximum safety and protection
to the animals. Exercise for 20 to 30 minutes and water must be provided at
least once every eight hours. Food must be provided at least once every 24
hours or more often, if necessary, to maintain the health and condition of the
animals.
      (4)   Shelter size. A confinement area must provide sufficient space to
allow each animal to turn about freely and to easily stand, sit, and lie in a
normal position. Each confined animal must be provided a minimum square footage
of floor space as measured from the tip of its nose to the base of its tail,
plus 25%, expressed in square feet. The formula for computing minimum square
footage is: (length of animal plus 25%) times (length of animal plus 25%),
divided by 144. A shaded area must be provided sufficient to protect the animal
from the direct rays of the sun at all times during the months of May to
October.
      (5)   Exercise. All dogs and cats must be provided the opportunity for
periodic exercise, either through free choice or through a forced work program,
unless exercise is restricted by a licensed veterinarian.
      (6)   Group housing and breeding. Animals housed together must be kept in
compatible groups. Animals must not be bred so often as to endanger their
health.
      (7)   Temperature. Confinement areas must be maintained at a temperature
suitable for the animal involved.
      (8)   Ventilation. An indoor confinement area must be ventilated. Drafts,
odors, and moisture condensation must be minimized. Auxiliary ventilation, such
as exhaust fans, vents, and air conditioning, must be used when the ambient
temperature rises to a level that may endanger the health of the animal.
      (9)   Lighting. An indoor confinement area must have at least eight hours
of illumination sufficient to permit routine inspection and cleaning.
      (10)   Confinement and exercise area surfaces. Where applicable, the
interior surfaces of confinement and exercise areas, including crates or
containers, must be constructed and maintained so that they are substantially
impervious to moisture and may be readily cleaned. They must protect the animal
from injury and be kept in good repair.
      (11)   Drainage. Where applicable, a suitable method must be used to
rapidly eliminate excess fluids from confinement areas.
      (12)   Sanitation. Food and water receptacles must be accessible to each
animal and located so as to minimize contamination by excreta. Feeding and
water receptacles must be kept clean. Disposable food receptacles must be
discarded when soiled. Measures must be taken to protect animals from being
contaminated with water, wastes, and harmful chemicals. Wastes must be disposed
of properly. Where applicable, flushing methods and a disinfectant must be used
periodically. Bedding, if used, must be kept clean and dry. Outdoor enclosures
must be kept clean and base material replaced as necessary.
   (C)   Birds, rodent other animals. Basic care provided to pet and companion
animal birds, rodents and other shall be consistent with M.S. §§ 346.40, 346.41
and 346.42, as those statutes may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Dogs and cats in motor vehicles.
      (1)   Unattended dogs or cats. A person may not leave a dog or a cat
unattended in a standing or parked motor vehicle in a manner that endangers the
dog’s or cat’s health or safety.
      (2)   Removal of dogs or cats. A peace officer, as defined in M.S. §
626.84, as it may be amended from time to time, a humane agent, a dog warden,
or a volunteer or professional member of a fire or rescue department of the
city may use reasonable force to enter a motor vehicle and remove a dog or cat
which has been left in the vehicle in violation of (D)(1). A person removing a
dog or a cat under this division shall use reasonable means to contact the
owner of the dog or cat to arrange for its return home. If the person is unable
to contact the owner, the person may take the dog or cat to an animal shelter.
   (E)   Dog houses. A person in charge or control of any dog which is kept
outdoors or in an unheated enclosure shall provide the dog with shelter and
bedding as prescribed in this section as a minimum.
      (1)   Building specifications. The shelter shall include a moisture proof
and wind-proof structure of suitable size to accommodate the dog and allow
retention of body heat. It shall be made of durable material with a solid,
moisture proof floor or a floor raised at least two inches from the ground.
Between November 1 and March 31 the structure must have a windbreak at the
entrance. The structure shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of
suitable bedding material consisting of hay, straw, cedar shavings, blankets,
or the equivalent, to provide insulation and protection against cold and
dampness and promote retention of body heat.
      (2)   Shade. Shade from the direct rays of the sun, during the months of
May to October shall be provided.
      (3)   Farm dogs. In lieu of the requirements of (E)(1) and (E)(2), a dog
kept on a farm may be provided with access to a barn with a sufficient quantity
of loose hay or bedding to protect against cold and dampness.
§ 90.14 BREEDING MORATORIUM.
   Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in a manner that it cannot come in contact with another dog or
cat except for planned breeding. Upon capture and failure to reclaim the
animal, every dog or cat shall be neutered or spayed prior to being transferred
to a new owner.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Council is hereby authorized to appoint an animal control officer(s) to
enforce the provisions of this section. In the officer’s duty of enforcing the
provisions of this section, he or she may from time to time, with the consent
of the City Council, designate assistants.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 POUND.
   Every year the Council shall designate an official pound to which animals
found in violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe treatment, and if
necessary, for destruction.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs, cats or other animals and
convey them to the pound while engaged in that operation. Nor shall any
unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or
attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance
with this chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder the
officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 FIGHTING ANIMALS.
   (A) The provisions of M.S. § 343.31, as it may be amended from time to time,
are adopted herein by reference.
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Promote, engage in, or be employed in the activity of cockfighting,
dogfighting, or violent pitting of one pet or companion animal as defined in
M.S. § 346.36, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time, against another
of the same or a different kind;
      (2)   Receive money for the admission of a person to a place used, or
about to be used, for that activity;
      (3)   Willfully permit a person to enter or use for that activity
premises of which the permitter is the owner, agent, or occupant; or
      (4)   Use, train, or possess a dog or other animal for the purpose of
participating in, engaging in, or promoting that activity.
      (5)   Purchase a ticket of admission or otherwise gain admission to the
activity of cockfighting, dogfighting, or violent pitting of one pet or
companion animal against another of the same or a different kind.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 FEEDING STRAY CATS AND DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   FEED or FEEDING means the placing of dog or cat food, or similar
food products or consumable materials attractive to dogs and cats, which may
result in dogs and cats congregating thereon on a regular basis, placed on the
ground, in an obviously intended feeder, or in a feeder at a height accessible
to cats and dogs.
      (2)   STRAY means an unlicensed domestic or feral dog or cat running at
large and unaccompanied or controlled by an owner.
   (B)   Policy and purpose. High populations of stray dogs and cats pose a
hazard to human health and safety, as such animals provide a fruitful breeding
ground for infectious disease, including but not limited to rabies and
distemper, and may otherwise bite or attack humans and domestic animals. In
addition, food provided for stray animals is often attractive to wild animals
such as raccoons and rodents and may create nuisance conditions such as a rat
harborage or other wild animal infestation.
   (C)   No person shall feed or allow the feeding of any stray cat or dog
within the city.
   (D)   Exceptions. Veterinarians and persons who, acting within the scope of
their employment with any governmental entity non-profit, or humane society has
custody of or manages stray dogs and cats are not subject to the prohibitions
of this section.
§ 90.20 GUIDELINES ALLOWING CHICKENS WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   A homeowner or a lessee within the city limits may maintain no more
than three hens at a residence. The keeping of roosters is prohibited.
   (B)   In granting permission to raise hens, the hens must be kept in a
chicken coop, which shall be within 12 to 24 inches above ground and the legs
of the chicken coop must be secured. The chicken coop must have appropriate
fencing to prohibit animals such as foxes, coyotes, skunks and dogs from
gaining access to the chicken coop. In the event that the security of the
chicken coop is breached, the city shall accept no liability for a fence which
provided access to the chicken coop.
   (C)   A chicken coop in which any hens are kept must at all times be clean
and sanitary and all manure or droppings shall be removed and properly disposed
with frequency to avoid a nuisance arising of odors or breeding of flies or
vermin.
   (D)   In the event that a permit is granted, anyone who is raising hens is
prohibited from selling eggs without a permit.
   (E)   The location of a chicken coop must be a minimum of 75 feet from a
neighboring dwelling.
   (F)   The applicant for city permission to raise chickens must be required
to pay an annual fee as per the fee schedule to raise chickens. The City
Council, based upon violations of this chapter, including complaint from
residents, may revoke a renewal of a permit to raise chickens based upon issues
arising from the prior year’s raising of chickens.
   (G)   At all times a permit holder shall securely confine all hens within an
enclosure. The owner or lessee shall not permit any hens to stray or feed upon
a public highway, street, alley or public ground nor upon the property of
another.
   (H)   The holder of a permit shall be prohibited from slaughtering any fowl
on permitted property within the city limits.
   (I)   In the event that there is a violation of this chapter the city may
immediately revoke the applicant’s permit to raise chickens. A violation of
this chapter shall include complaints by residents of the city in regard to
noise created by chickens on the premises.
   (J)   Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 503.18) (Ord. passed 6-10-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of this chapter is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable under this section.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Unless otherwise provided, violation of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99.
   (C)   Petty misdemeanor. Violations of §§
90.02,
90.07,
90.13 and
90.14 are petty misdemeanors punishable as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 91: OUTSIDE STORAGE OF WOOD
Section
   
91.01   Definition
   
91.02   Permits
   
91.03   Storage conditions
   
91.04   Inspection
   
91.05   Exemption
   
91.06   Violation
§ 91.01 DEFINITION.
   WOOD shall include any wood or lumber, whether bought cut or pre-cut
construction grade or finish, which is stored or kept on property in the city
and which is intended to be used as firewood.
(2009 Code, § 508.01)
§ 91.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit. No wood shall be stored or kept in the city unless the person
wishing to store or keep the wood first obtains a permit from the city to do
so.
   (B)   Application. Each application shall be made on forms provided by the
city and available from the City Administrator-Treasurer. The application shall
contain the name of the applicant and/or owner of the property, the location of
the property on which the wood is to be kept or stored, the manner of storage,
the location of the storage on the property, and such further information as
the city may from time to time require.
   (C)   Permit expiration. A permit for the storage of wood must be obtained
on an annual basis. A permit shall expire September 1 of the year following the
year in which the permit is issued. There shall be no charge for the permit.
(2009 Code, § 508.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 STORAGE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Wood shall be stored or kept in neat and secure stacks.
   (B)   Wood shall not be in any area of the property in which a building
could not be situated under the zoning laws of this city.
(2009 Code, § 508.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 INSPECTION.
   After the issuance of a permit to keep or store wood, the city may enter
upon the property described in the application for the permit to inspect the
wood.
(2009 Code, § 508.04)
§ 91.05 EXEMPTION.
   This chapter shall not apply to wood stored in a covered structure that is
impervious to the elements.
(2009 Code, § 508.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 VIOLATION.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 508.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: OUTDOOR RADIO AND TELEVISION ANTENNAS
Section
   
92.01   Application
   
92.02   Construction requirement
   
92.03   Inspection
   
92.04   Violation
§ 92.01 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Prohibition. No outdoor radio or television antenna shall be
constructed, erected, enlarged or altered within the city which does not
conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Permits. A written application for a permit to construct, erect,
enlarge or alter any outdoor radio and/or television antenna shall be made to
the City Administrator-Treasurer, and when the City Administrator-Treasurer
deems necessary, the permit may be required to be accompanied by the proposed
plans of construction for the antenna.
(2009 Code, § 509.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Lightning arrester. A lightning arrester shall be installed in each
conductor of a lead-in from an outdoor antenna. The lightning arrester shall be
grounded to an approved ground no lighter than #6. The lightning arrester shall
not be located neat any combustible material or in a hazardous location. All
supporting poles or masts shall be permanently grounded in the same manner,
except that poles or masts which are themselves used as antennas need not be so
grounded.
   (B)   Supports. Outdoor antenna and counter poise and lead-in conductors
shall be securely supported. They shall not be attached to poles or similar
structures carrying electric light or power wires. Insulators supporting the
antenna or counterpoise conductors shall have sufficient mechanical strength to
safely support the conductors. Lead-in conductors shall be securely attached to
the antenna.
   (C)   Lead-in conductors. Lead-in conductors attached to buildings shall be
installed so that they cannot swing closer than two feet to the conductors of
circuits of 250 volts or less, or closer than ten feet to conductors of
circuits of more than 250 volts. The clearance between lead in conductors and
any conductor forming part of a lightning rod system shall not be less than six
feet. Lead in shall be supported at intervals not less than 15 feet apart.
   (D)   Chimney mounts. Chimney mounts on single flue chimneys with less than
three square feet of cross sectional area must be made with straps completely
around the chimney. Antennas may be mounted with anchors on chimney of a size
greater than three square feet of cross-sectional area provided that such
chimney is in good condition. Anchors are to be set in holes frilled in the
brick and the anchor shall not be set in the mortar joint between the brick.
   (E)   Pipe mast guys. All pipes masts requiring guys shall be guyed by not
less than three and preferably four guys evenly spaced. Guy wires shall be of
non-corrosive, stranded cable or wire, and shall be of 300-pound test strength.
All guys shall be made mechanically secure to the roof, parapet or other
masonry. They shall be attached to the mat with guy rings and contain
turnbuckles installed at the base end. The guys shall not be installed at an
angle of less than 30 degrees to the vertical of the mast. The guys shall not
be tightened in such a manner as to cause the mast to buckle.
   (F)   Pipe mast heights. Pipe masts over eight feet in height exclusive of
the beam elements shall be guyed as set forth in division (E) above.
      (1)   Pipe masts over eight feet in height but not greater than 20 feet
in height exclusive of beam elements shall be guyed to a minimum of two
positions. The lower position is to be not less than five feet or more than
eight feet from the base. The higher position is to be set not less than two
feet from the top. These masts are to be guyed as set forth in division (E)
above.
      (2)   Pipe masts of over 20 feet in height, exclusive of antenna
elements, shall be guyed in several positions. The lowest position shall be
guyed not less than five feet or more than eight feet from the base. Subsequent
guys shall be installed at intervals of eight to ten feet above the first set
of guys. The guys shall be installed as set forth in division (E) above.
   (G)   Wood poles. Wood poles that are 40 feet in height must be set at least
six feet in the ground, and poles 40 to 50 feet in height must be set not less
than seven feet or more than eight feet in the ground.
   (H)   Power lines. If possible, all masts and towers shall be installed that
the mast and antenna cannot fall on power lines carrying 250 volts or more in
the event of the failure of the masts or guys. Where the installation could
fall on a power line, the installation shall not be made until approval has
been obtained from the Ottertail Power Company.
   (I)   Installations. All installations shall be made in a neat, safe and
workmanlike manner.
(2009 Code, § 509.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 INSPECTION.
   Upon completion of the proposed construction, the Fire Chief shall inspect
and examine the work to ascertain whether the work conforms to the provisions
of this chapter. The fee for this inspection shall be a charge set by the Fire
Department and is to be prepaid and filed with the application for the permit.
(2009 Code, § 509.03)
§ 92.04 VIOLATION.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 509.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: JUNKED VEHICLES AND APPLIANCES
Section
   
93.01   Commercial area
   
93.02   Fencing
   
93.03   Permit
   
93.04   Further regulations
   
93.05   Violations
§ 93.01 COMMERCIAL AREA.
   A lawful business conducted for the sale of junked cars, refrigerators,
other household appliances or parts therefrom shall be located in an industrial
area only. No junk business shall be permitted in any residential/commercial
area.
(2009 Code, § 510.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 FENCING.
   Each lawful business conducted for the sale of junk cars, refrigerators,
other household appliances or parts therefrom shall be suitably fenced or
housed so that the junked cars, refrigerators, other household appliances or
parts therefrom are concealed from the view of the non-patronizing citizenry.
(2009 Code, § 510.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 PERMIT.
   Each business described in §
115.01 shall obtain an annual fee for such permit shall be set by Council
resolution and a schedule shall be in §
39.01.
(2009 Code, § 510.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 FURTHER REGULATIONS.
   The City Council shall have the power to pass such other regulations for
each business as it deems to be reasonably necessary.
(2009 Code, § 510.04)
§ 93.05 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 510.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: CITY PARK REGULATIONS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Conduct regulation
   
94.03   Separate offense
   
94.04   Variance
   
94.05   Enforcement
   
94.06   Violations
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Red Lake Falls, Minnesota.
   FIREARM OR WEAPON. Any kind of gun from which shot or a projectile is
discharged by means of any explosive, gas or compressed air, including
revolvers, pistols, long guns, BB guns and CO2 guns. Also included are bow and
arrows, compound bows, crossbows, sling shots or other devices similarly
designed or for a similar purpose.
   IMMEDIATE AREA. The area in which normal conversation can be heard.
   LOUD AND BOISTEROUS. Any noise or noises which may be heard beyond the
immediate are where words are spoken and may cause a disturbance to the area
beyond such confinement, or the playing of radios, tape recorders or other
instruments which can be heard beyond the immediate areas.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
area in the city, owned or used by the city, and devoted to active or passive
recreation.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   VEHICLE. Any wheeled conveyance whether motor powered, animal drawn or self-
propelled, and shall include snowmobiles. The word VEHICLE shall also include
any trailer in tow of any size, kind or description. Exception from the word
VEHICLE is made for baby carriages and vehicles in the service of the city.
(2009 Code, § 511.01)
§ 94.02 CONDUCT REGULATION.
   (A)   Park property. No person in a park shall willfully mark, deface,
disfigure, injure, tamper with, displace or remove any building, table,
fireplace, signs, railings, fences, trees, shrubs, flowers or any other
structure, equipment, facilities or park property of any nature.
   (B)   Structures. No person in a park shall erect or construct any structure
of any kind in any park, except under written permission of the City Council.
   (C)   Animals. No person in a park shall molest in any manner wild animal,
bird or reptile, or the next, den or lair of the same, except under written
permission of the City Council.
   (D)   Pollution. No person in park shall pollute any water or land area of
any park by placing or causing to be placed trash, refuse or garbage of any
nature in or on land or water of any park, but shall dispose of trash, refuse
or garbage by depositing it in receptacles provided for that purpose.
   (E)   Traffic. No person in a park shall fail to comply with all applicable
provisions of the state motor vehicle traffic laws, or fail to comply with all
traffic signs in the park. No person in a park shall drive or park any vehicle
in any park except on clearly designated roads or parking areas, or ride a
bicycle, motorcycle, motorized car, snowmobile or horse in any park, except on
roads or trails or areas clearly marked for such use.
   (F)   Animals. No person in a park shall fail to keep dogs or other domestic
animals under control so they will not interfere with the use of parks by other
persons.
   (G)   Commercial activity. No person in a park shall engage in any
commercial or advertising activity or place any advertising material in any
park, except with the written permission of the City Council.
   (H)   Liquor. No person in a park shall consume intoxicating or no
intoxicating liquor after 10:00 p.m. or before 7:00 a.m. in any park.
   (I)   Firearms or weapons. No person in a park shall use firearms or weapons
in any park unless in a designated area at a designated time.
   (J)   Fires. No person in a park shall start a fire in any park, except a
small fire for culinary purposes in a designated area. No person shall fail to
fully extinguish such a fire made for culinary purposes.
   (K)   Offensive conduct. No person in a park shall willfully perform any
offensive, noisy or disagreeable act, engage in loud or boisterous conduct, or
operate a vehicle in any manner which will interfere with the use or enjoyment
of the park by other persons. No person shall play music through any portable
electronic device, whether contained within a motor vehicle or otherwise, in
such a manner as to reasonably arouse alarm, anger or resentment in others
within the park area.
   (L)   Closing hour. No person in a park shall occupy any area of any park
after 10:30 p.m., closing hour, and before 7:00 a.m., opening hours or at times
otherwise designated and posted by the City Council. This division (L) shall
not apply to those persons present under a valid camping permit for the date in
question. Violation of this division (L), in addition to other penalties, shall
be deemed to be a trespass as defined by M.S. § 609.605(5), as it may be
amended from time to time, and any amendments thereto.
   (M)   Camping fees. Any fees for camping in any park shall be set by Council
resolution, and a copy of this shall be in §
39.01.
(2009 Code, § 511.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 SEPARATE OFFENSE.
   Each violation of any park of this chapter shall be deemed to be a separate
offense.
(2009 Code, § 511.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 VARIANCE.
   The City Council may issue a special permit, not to exceed more than one
week, waiving all or portions of this chapter as the Council deems necessary to
be in the interest of the public welfare. A “special permit” shall mean written
authorization from not less than three active City Council members. It shall
include the public place where the permit pertains, the time for which the
permit is issued, the person or organization to which the permit has been
issued, and any other conditions or restrictions deemed necessary by the
Council.
(2009 Code, § 511.04)
§ 94.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Sheriffs Department shall, in connection with their other duties,
diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Sheriffs Department
shall have the authority to eject from the park any person acting in violation
of this chapter. The Sheriffs Department shall also have the authority to seize
and confiscate any property, thing or device in any park used in violation of
this chapter.
(2009 Code, § 511.05)
§ 94.06 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 511.06)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
   
95.01   Public nuisance
   
95.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
95.03   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
95.04   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
95.05   Nuisance parking and storage
   
95.06   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
95.07   Building maintenance and appearance
   
95.08   Duties of city officers
   
95.09   Abatement
   
95.10   Recovery of cost
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A person must not act, or fail to act in a manner that is or causes a public
nuisance. For purpose of this chapter, a person who does any of the following
is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or §§
95.02,
95.03 or
95.04, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
   (L)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place. For the purposes of this
section INTOXICATING LIQUOR shall mean any ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented,
spirituous, vinous or malt beverage containing more than ½% alcohol by volume;
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as they may
be amended from time to time which are hereby incorporated by reference into
this code;
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational device
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (F)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or
other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly
audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person
nearby. Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section;
   (G)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of people
giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet, or repose of
another person. When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating
such a noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than
the owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to
disperse immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a
police officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has
knowledge of the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the
disturbance is stopped;
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (M)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (O)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (P)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (Q)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (T)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (U)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
   (V)   (1)   Noises prohibited.
         (a)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made
any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
this section.
         (b)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so
out of repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
         (c)   Loading, unloading, unpacking. No person shall create loud or
excessive noise in loading, unloading, or unpacking any vehicle.
         (d)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems, and the like. No person
shall use or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly audible manner as
to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or other device
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at the property line of the structure or building in which it is
located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet if
the source is located outside a structure or building, shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
         (e)   Schools, churches, hospitals, and the like. No person shall
create any excessive noise on a street, alley or public grounds adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church or hospital when the noise unreasonably
interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs or unduly annoys its
occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs indicate the presence of such
institution.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation or alteration or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each such statement and take
its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applied for or the zoning change requested.
   (W) Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it (a) obstructs views on streets and private property, (b)
creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas, (c) prevents the full use of
residential streets for residential parking, (d) introduces commercial
advertising signs into areas where commercial advertising signs are otherwise
prohibited, (e) decreases adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood, and (f) otherwise adversely affects property
values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
   (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage of
ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-permanent
structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front-yard area
of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front property
line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional
guests who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration of a nuisance. Any motor vehicles described in this
section constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the
community in that such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter
and breeding place for vermin and present physical danger to the safety and
well-being of children and citizens; and vehicles containing fluids which, if
released into the environment, can and do cause significant health risks to the
community.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store or abandon any motor vehicle
which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used for repair of
parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other vehicles, kept
for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of any kind, or which is not properly
licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. § 168.13, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a building
and/or kept out of view from any street, road or alley, and which does not
foster complaint from a resident of the city. A privacy fence is permissible.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they (a) are unsightly, (b) decrease adjoining landowners and
occupants’ enjoyment of their property and neighborhood, and (c) adversely
affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters, and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents, and other similar projections must
be structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of §§
95.08 and
95.09, the Police Department, or Sheriff or person designated by the City
Council under §
10.20, if the city has at the time no Police Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace officer or designated person shall
have the power to inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions
to prevent the commission and maintenance of public nuisances. Except in
emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and safety, no police
officer or designated person shall enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the owner,
resident or other person in control of the property, unless the officer or
person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20.
§ 95.09 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer or designated person on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S.
§ 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from
time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer or designated person determines
that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the
city, the officer or person designated may notify in writing the owner of
record or occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be
taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be
abated. If the notice of violation is not complied with within the time
specified, the officer or designated person shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an administrative search and
seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the officer or designated person shall determine that a
public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city and that
delay in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health,
safety or welfare. The officer or designated person shall notify in writing the
occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance and of the
city's intention to seek summary enforcement and the time and place of the City
Council meeting to consider the question of summary enforcement. The City
Council shall determine whether or not the condition identified in the notice
to the owner or occupant is a nuisance, whether public health, safety or
welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement required to
complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this section, and may order
that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is not
immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city or a person who has caused a public nuisance on a property
not owned by that person shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of
the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Administrator-Treasurer or other
official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon
the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City
Administrator-Treasurer .
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City
Administrator-Treasurer shall, on or before September 1 next following
abatement of the nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along with all other
charges as well as other charges for current services to be assessed under M.S.
§ 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, against each separate lot or
parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council may then spread
the charges against the property under that statute and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten,
as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY
   Violation of any provision of this chapter, including maintaining a nuisance
after being notified in writing by first-class mail of a violation of any
provision of this chapter, shall be a misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: TREE DISEASES AND PLANTING
Section
   
96.01   Declaration of policy
   
96.02   Epidemic disease program
   
96.03   Nuisances declared
   
96.04   Inspection and investigation
   
96.05   Abatement of Dutch elm disease nuisance
   
96.06   Procedure for removal of infected trees and wood
   
96.07   Spraying elm trees
   
96.08   Transporting elm wood prohibited
   
96.09   Interference prohibited
   
96.10   Planting of trees on boulevards
   
96.11   Approved trees
   
96.12   Prohibited trees
   
96.13   Planting
§ 96.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The City Council determines that the health of the elm and oak trees within
the municipal limits is threatened by fatal diseases known as Dutch elm and oak
wilt diseases, and other trees may be threatened by other epidemic diseases of
shade trees. It further determines that the loss of elm, oak and other trees
growing upon public and private property would substantially depreciate the
value of property within the city and impair the safety, good order, general
welfare and convenience of control and prevent the spread of those diseases and
this chapter is enacted for that purpose.
(2009 Code, § 802.01)
§ 96.02 EPIDEMIC DISEASE PROGRAM.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council to conduct a program of
noxious weed control pursuant to all the powers of this city including the
authority granted by M.S. § 18.75 et seq., as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   This program is concentrated on, but not limited to, the control and
elimination of Dutch elm disease fungus, elm bark beetles and the oak wilt
fungus and is undertaken at the recommendation of the Commissioner of
Agriculture. The city shall act as coordinator between the Commissioner of
Agriculture and the Council in the conduct of this program.
(2009 Code, § 802.03)
§ 96.03 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   (A)   Trees constituting nuisances. The following are public nuisances
whenever they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman, Moreau) or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including legs, branches,
stumps, firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed
and burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the oak wilt fungus Ceratocystis Fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the city
constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to logs, branches, stumps,
roots firewood or other oak material, which has not been stripped of its bark
and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide; and
      (5)   Any other shade trees with an epidemic disease.
   (B)   Abatement. It is unlawful for any person to permit any public nuisance
as defined in division (A) above to remain on any premises owned or controlled
by him or her within the city. Such nuisances may be abated in the manner
prescribed by this chapter.
(2009 Code, § 802.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.04 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Annual inspection. As often as practicable, the city shall inspect all
public and private premises within the city which might harbor any noxious weed
as defined in M.S. § 18.77, Subd. 8, as it may be amended from time to time, to
determine whether any condition described in §
96.03 exists thereon. He or she shall investigate all reported incidents of
infestation by Dutch elm fungus, elm bark beetles, oak wilt fungus or any other
epidemic disease of shade trees.
   (B)   Entry on private premises. The city or its duly authorized agents may
enter upon private premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of carrying
out any of the duties assigned him or her under this chapter.
   (C)   Diagnosis. The city shall, upon finding conditions indicating Dutch
elm, oak wilt or other infestation, immediately send appropriate specimens or
samples to the Commissioner or Agriculture for analysis, or take such other
steps for diagnosis as may be recommended by the Commissioner. Except as
provided in §
96.06, no action to remove infected trees or wood shall be taken until positive
diagnosis of the disease has been made.
(2009 Code, § 802.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.05 ABATEMENT OF DUTCH ELM DISEASE NUISANCE.
   In abating a nuisance defined in §
96.03, the city shall cause the infected tree or wood to be sprayed, removed,
burned or otherwise effectively treated so as to destroy and prevent as fully
as possible the spread of epidemic diseases including Dutch elm disease and oak
wilt disease. The city shall also take such steps as are necessary to prevent
root graft transmission of the disease. Such abatement procedures shall be
carried out in accordance with current technical and expert opinions and plans
as may be designated by the Commissioner of Agriculture.
(2009 Code, § 802.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.06 PROCEDURE FOR REMOVAL OF INFECTED TREES AND WOOD.
   (A)   Action by city. Whenever the city finds with reasonable certainty that
the infestation defined in §
96.03 exists in any tree or wood in any public or private in the city, it shall
proceed as follows:
      (1)   If the the city finds that the danger of infestation of other elm,
oak or other trees is not imminent because of the dormancy of the infected
trees, it shall make a written report of its finding to the Council which shall
proceed by:
         (a)   Abating the nuisance as a public improvement under M.S. Chapter
429, as it may be amended from time to time; or
         (b)   Abating the nuisance as provided in division (A)(2) below.
      (2)   If the finds that danger of infestation of other elm, oak or other
trees is imminent, it shall notify the abutting property owner by certified
mail that the nuisance will be abated within a specified time, not less than
five days from the date of mailing of such notice. The city shall immediately
report such action to the Council and, after the expiration of the time limit
in the notice, it may abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Action by the Council. Upon receipt of the city’s report required by
division (A)(2) above, the Council shall, by resolution, order the nuisance
abated. Before action is taken on such resolution, the Council shall publish
notice of its intention to meet to consider taking action to abate the
nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to affected property owners and published
once no less than one week prior to such meeting. The notice shall state the
time and place of the meeting, the streets affected, action proposed, the
estimated cost of the abatement, and the proposed basis of assessment, if any,
of costs. As such hearing or adjournment thereof, the Council shall hear
property owners with reference to the scope and desirability of the proposed
project. The Council shall thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the
original resolution with such modifications as it considers desirable and
provide for the doing of the work by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   Record. The city shall keep a record of the costs of abatements done
under this section and shall report monthly to the City Administrator-Treasurer
(or other appropriate officer) all work done for which assessments are to be
made stating and certifying the description of the land, lots, parcels involved
and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the City
Administrator-Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for each abatement
against each separate lot or parcel to which they attributable under this
chapter. The Council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof against
the property involved a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to
the County Auditor and collection the following year along with current taxes.
(2009 Code, § 802.07)
§ 96.07 SPRAYING ELM TREES.
   (A)   When to spray. Whenever the city determines that any elm tree or elm
wood within the city is infected with Dutch elm fungus, it may spray or treat
all nearby high value elm trees with an effective elm bark beetle destroying or
fungicide or both. Activities authorized by this section shall be conducted in
accordance with technical and expert opinions and plans of the Commissioner of
Agriculture and under the supervision of the Commissioner and his or her agents
whenever possible.
   (B)   Notice. The notice provisions of §
96.06 apply to spraying and treatment operations conducted under this section.
(2009 Code, § 802.08)
§ 96.08 TRANSPORTING ELM WOOD PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to transport within the city any bark-bearing
elm or oak wood without having obtained a permit from the city. The city shall
grant such permits only when the purpose of this chapter will be served
thereby.
(2009 Code, § 802.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.09 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the city
or its agents while it is engaged in the performance of duties imposed by this
chapter.
(2009 Code, § 802.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.10 PLANTING OF TREES ON BOULEVARDS.
   No planting of trees on the boulevards in the city shall be made unless
approved by the Park Board of the city.
(2009 Code, § 802.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.11 APPROVED TREES.
   No trees may be planted within the right-of-way of public streets except for
the following:
Specific Name Common Name
Specific Name                         Common Name
Acer Rubrum                           Red Maple
Acer Saccharum                        Sugar or Hard Maple
Acer Saccharum Linneaus               Silver Maple
Acer Saccharum Marshall               Rock Maple
Betula Papyrifera March               Paper Birch
Betula Lutea Michx                    Yellow Birch
Celtis Occidentalis                   Common Hackberry
Fraxinum Americana                    White Ash
Fraximum Nigra                        Black Ash
Fraximum Pennsylvanica                Red Ash
Fraximum Pennsylvanica Subintegarrima Green Ash
Fraximum Quadrangulata                Blue Ash
Ginkgo Biloba (male tree only)        Ginkgo (Maiden Hair Tree)
Ginkgo Triacanthos Inermis “MoraineMoraine Honeylocust
Malus Floribunda                      Flowering Crab
Obstrya Virginiana                    (Ironwood)
Plantanus Occidentalis                Sycamore (American Plane Tree)
Pinus Strombus                        White Pine
Pinus Resinosa                        Red Pine (or Norway of Hard Pine)
Picea Glauca                          White Spruce
Picea Mariana                         Blue Spruce
Tilia American                        Basswood
Tilia Cordata                         Littleleaf Linden
 
(2009 Code, § 802.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.12 PROHIBITED TREES.
   (A)   Trees prohibited. None of the following trees listed may be planted on
street boulevards:
Genus Species Common Name
Genus               Species     Common Name
Acar                Negundo     Box Elder (Ash-leaved Maple)
Barberis Volgasis L             Common Barberry
Ginkgo              Biloba      Ginkgo (Maidenhair) tree- (female only)
Populus             Deitiodes   Eastern Cottonwood
Quercus             Red species All Red or Black Oaks (sharp, pointed left
                                lopes)
Ribes               All species Gooseberries and Currents
Ulmus               All species All elms
 
   (B)   Removal and replacement. The City Administrator-Treasurer or city may
order that prohibited trees be cut down and replaced by approved trees, if, in
their judgment they feel that the prohibited trees are becoming a hazard or are
affecting the health or any other trees.
(2009 Code, § 802.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.13 PLANTING.
   (A)   Tree spacing. Trees planted at street corners shall be located at
least 20 feet from the intersection street right-of-way lines. The distances
between the trees shall not be less than 30 feet for shade tree species.
Spacing as great as 65 feet may be used due to the arrangement of lots and
drives, width of street, setback of building lines, opportunity for alternating
of planting sites on opposite sides of the street, location of water lines and
sewers, and the species to be planted.
   (B)   Placing. Trees may be planted between the sidewalk and the curb when
this planting strip is more than eight feet in width. Any planting of trees
along the alleys shall be located not less than four feet from public alleys.
Spacing and specific location shall be determined by the Park Board.
   (C)   Time. Planting will be permitted only when the soil, temperature,
weather conditions and the state of dormancy of the trees are favorable: from
April 1 to May 30 or from October 1 to November 20 or during such time when
otherwise permitted by the Park Board.
   (D)   Holes. Planting holes shall be at least six inches deeper and 12
inches wider than the root spread of the tree to be planted.
   (E)   Soil. A good porous loam topsoil shall be used for backfill around the
tree roots. When soil at this site does not meet this description, the Park
Board may require this soil to be removed and a better quality soil brought in.
Alternatively, the Park Board may require the addition of such fertilizers and
organic materials as will provide suitable soil conditions for establishment
and growth of the tree.
   (F)   Planting. Each tree shall be planted plumb, one inch to two inches
lower than the level at which it grew prior to moving. The soil shall be
settled around the roots with water, and after completion of backfilling, the
soil must cover the main root area to a depth of at least three inches. Fall
planted trees shall be mulched with well rotted manure, leaves or peat.
Staking, buying or wrapping shall be required if so directed by the Park Board.
At the time of planting, no tree shall be smaller in size than the diameter of
one and one-half inches, measured at a point six inches above the ground. On
all principal streets or business streets, the trees shall be located as
provided by regulations pertaining thereto. All trees shall be planted so that
they are at least 30 feet apart when measured along the street.
   (G)   Ownership. All trees planted on street boulevards become the property
of the city.
   (H)   Maintenance. The planted trees shall be cared for and trimmed by the
abutting property owners. Maintenance and trimming of trees may be done by the
city and the cost assessed to the adjacent property owners. It is unlawful for
any person to willfully cut, break, injure, remove or destroy any tree located,
standing or growing, or which may hereafter be planted or placed upon any
public property in the city.
(2009 Code, § 802.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   TOBACCO SALES
      
113.   BINGO, GAMBLING AND RAFFLES
      
114.   AIRPORT
      
115.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
116.   CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS AND SHOWS
      
117.   SALES OF EDIBLE CANNABINOID PRODUCTS
      
118.   CANNABIS AND LOWER- POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses and permits
   
110.02   Fees
   
110.03   Duration of license
   
110.04   Transfers
   
110.05   Inspection
   
110.06   Duties of licensee
   
110.07   Suspension or revocation
§ 110.01 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   General rule. Except as otherwise provided in this code, all licenses
and permits granted by the city shall be governed by the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Acts prohibited. No person shall conduct any activity or use any
property for which a license or permit is required by law or this code without
a currently valid license or permit for such activity or use.
   (C)   Application. Every application for a license shall be made to the City
Administrator-Treasurer on a form provided by him or her. It shall be
accompanied by payment to the City Administrator-Treasurer of the prescribed
fee. If, after investigation, the City Administrator- Treasurer is satisfied
that all requirements of law and this code have been met, he or she shall
present the application to the Council for action of, if the license or permit
does not require Council approval, he or she shall issue the license or permit.
   (D)   Bond. Where a bond is required for any license or permit, the bond
shall be a corporate surety bond executed on a form approved by the City
Attorney and shall be filed with the City Administrator- Treasurer before the
license or permit is issued. Except where otherwise provided, a bond shall be
in the amount of $1,000, conditioned that the licensee or permittee shall
comply with the applicable ordinance and laws pertaining to the licensed or
permitted activity and that the licensee or permittee will indemnify the city
and save it harmless from all loss or damage by reason of inadequate work
performed by him or her or by reason of accident caused by the negligence of
the licensee or permittee, his or her agents or employees.
(2009 Code, § 501.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 FEES.
   (A)   Fees established. License fees are in the amounts established in the
governing sections of this chapter or as otherwise provided in this code.
   (B)   Prorated fees. If the initial license is to run for less than a full
year, the applicant shall pay a pro rate fee, with any unexpired fraction of a
month being counted as one month.
   (C)   Refunds. License fees shall not be refunded in whole or in part unless
otherwise specified by this code or by law.
(2009 Code, § 501.02)
§ 110.03 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise specified, a license shall be valid for a calendar year or
the part of the year for which it is issued and shall expire on December 31.
(2009 Code, § 501.03)
§ 110.04 TRANSFERS.
   No license issued under this code may be transferred to any other person.
Where a license related to specific premises, the license shall not be changed
to another location without approval of the Council or other licensing
authority.
(2009 Code, § 501.04)
§ 110.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Authorized personnel. Any city official or employee having a duty to
perform with reference to a license under this code and any police officer may
inspect and examine any licensee, his or her business, or premises to enforce
compliance with applicable provisions of this code. Subject to the provisions
of division (B) below, he or she may, at any reasonable time enter any licensed
premises or premises for which a license is required in order to enforce
compliance with this code.
   (B)   Search warrants. If the licensee objects to the inspection of his or
her premises, the city official or employee charged with the duty of enforcing
the provisions of this code shall procure a valid search warrant before
conducting the inspection.
(2009 Code, § 501.05)
§ 110.06 DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   Compliance required. Every licensee and permittee shall have the
duties set forth in this section.
   (B)   Inspection. The licensee and permittee shall permit, at reasonable
times, inspections of his or her business and examination of his or her books
and records by authorized officers or employees.
   (C)   Compliance with law. The licensee and permittee shall comply with
laws, ordinances and regulations applicable to the licensed business, activity
or property.
   (D)   Display of license. The licensee and permittee shall display the
license or other insignia given him or her as evidence of the license in a
conspicuous place on the premises, vehicle or device to which the license
relates. If the license is not so related, the license shall be carried on the
licensee’s person whenever he or she is carrying on the licensed activity.
   (E)   Unlawful disposition. The licensee shall not lend or give to any other
person his or her license or license insignia.
(2009 Code, § 501.06)
§ 110.07 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The Council may suspend for a period not exceeding 60 days or revoke any
license or permit for violation of any provision of law, ordinance or
regulation applicable to the licensed or permitted activity or property. Except
where mandatory revocation is provided by law without notice and hearing and
except where suspension may be made, without a hearing, the holder of the
license or permit shall be granted a hearing upon at least 20 days notice
before revocation or suspension is ordered. The notice shall state the time and
place of the hearing and the nature of the charges against the licensee.
(2009 Code, § 501.07)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
111.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
111.05   Consumption in public places
Licensing
   
111.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
111.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
111.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
111.23   License fees; pro rata
   
111.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
111.25   Application for license
   
111.26   Description of premises
   
111.27   Applications for renewal
   
111.28   Transfer of license
   
111.29   Investigation
   
111.30   Hearing and issuance
   
111.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
111.32   Conditions of license
   
111.33   Hours and days of sale
   
111.34   Minors on premises
   
111.35   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
111.36   Suspension and revocation
Municipal Liquor Stores
   
111.50   Application of this subchapter
   
111.51   Existing municipal stores continued
   
111.52   Location
   
111.53   Operation
   
111.54   Proof of financial responsibility
   
111.55   Issuance of other licenses
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as they may be amended from time to
time, with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this Chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if
they had been in existence at the time this chapter is adopted.
§ 111.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2% malt,” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt
liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a “small establishment,” “medium establishment” or
“large establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16, Subd. 3(d), as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is
heated and served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for purposes of
this chapter unless it meets the definitions of “small establishment”, “medium
establishment”or “large establishment”.
§ 111.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C) A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
111.99(B).
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in a public
park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any public
place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
chapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, or where
the consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
Penalty, see §
111.99
LICENSING
§ 111.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of licenses which were issued as of the effective date of
this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger
number of licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum
held under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, Subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
§ 111.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 111.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
111.20. The Council of a city which has a municipal liquor store is authorized
to issue only those licenses specified in §
111.55.
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to golf
courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off-sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
111.23 shall not exceed $240 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S.
§ 340A.408, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and
exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under §
111.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 2
(b), as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound
discretion authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor
off the licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4(b), as it may be amended from time
to time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4(a), as it may be amended from time
to time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating
liquor to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event
being held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
111.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
111.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3(b), as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years; a political committee
registered under state law; or a state university. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
day’s worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at one time and meet the criteria of M.S.§ 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
111.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.4011, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time and to
theaters that meet the criteria in M.S. § 340A.404 Subd. 1(b). The fee for an
on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of §
111.23 shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor
with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license.
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
111.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. §
340A.414, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
   (L)   Culinary class limited on-sale licenses may be issued to a business
establishment not otherwise eligible for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license
that, as part of its business, conducts culinary or cooking classes for which
payment is made by each participant or advance reservation required. The
license authorizes the licensee to furnish to each participant in each class,
at no additional cost to the participant, up to a maximum of six ounces of wine
or 12 ounces of intoxicating malt liquor, during and as part of the class, for
consumption on the licensed premises only.
   (M)   Temporary off-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued for the off-sale of wine at an
auction. A license issued under this subdivision authorizes the sale of only
vintage wine of a brand and vintage that is not commonly being offered for sale
by any wholesaler in Minnesota. The license may authorize the off-sale of wine
for not more than three consecutive days provided not more than 600 cases of
wine are sold at any auction. The licenses are subject to the terms, including
license fee, imposed by §
111.23.
   (N)   Brew pub on-sale intoxicating liquor or on-sale 3.2% malt liquor
licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued
to brewers who operate a restaurant in their place of manufacture and who meet
the criteria established at M.S. § 340A.24, as it may be amended from time to
time. Sales under this license at on-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per
year. If a brew pub licensed under this section possesses a license for off-
sale under division (O) below, the brew pub’s total combined retail sales at
on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year, provided that off-
sales may not total more than 500 barrels.
   (O)   (1)   Brewer off-sale malt liquor license, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued to a brewer that is a licensee
under division (N) above and otherwise meets the criteria established as M.S. §
340A.24, as it may be amended from time to time. Off-sale of malt liquor shall
be limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive liquor stores in the
city. Malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the premises before the
applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor stores. All malt liquor
sold under this license shall be packaged in the manner required by M.S. §
340A.301, Subd. 7 as it may be amended from time to time. Sales under this
license may not exceed 500 barrels per year. If a brewer licensed under this
section possesses a license under division (N) above, the brewer’s total retail
sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year, provided
that off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels.
      (2)   Brewer off-sale malt liquor licenses may also be issued, with
approval of the Commissioner, to a holder of a brewer’s license under M.S. §
340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) and meeting the criteria established by M.S. §
340A.28 as may be amended from time to time. The amount of malt liquor sold at
off-sale may not exceed 500 barrels annually. Off-sale of malt liquor shall be
limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive liquor stores in the
jurisdiction in which the brewer is located, and the malt liquor sold off-sale
must be removed from the premises before the applicable off-sale closing time
at exclusive liquor stores. Packaging of malt liquor for off-sale under this
license must comply with M.S. § 340A.285, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (P)   Brewer temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued,
with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, to brewers who
manufacture fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year for the on-sale
of intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the
municipality sponsored by the brewer.
   (Q)   Brewer taproom license, may be issued to the holder of a brewer’s
license under M.S. § 340A.301 Subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) as it may amended from
time to time. A brewer’s taproom license authorizes on-sale of malt liquor
produced by the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one
brewery location owned by the brewer. A brewer may have only one taproom
license and may not have an ownership interest in a brewer licensed under M.S.
§ 340A.301 Subd. 6(d), as it may be amended from time to time. A brewer taproom
license may not be issued to a brewer that brews more than 250,000 barrels of
malt liquor annually or a winery that produces more than 250,000 gallons of
wine annually. Within ten days of issuing a brewer taproom license the City
Administrator-Treasurer will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of the
licensee’s name, address, trade name and the effective date and expiration date
of the license. The City Administrator-Treasurer will inform the Commissioner
of Public Safety of a license transfer, cancellation, suspension, or revocation
during the license period.
   (R)   A cocktail room license may be issued to the holder of a state
microdistillery license. A microdistillery cocktail room license authorizes on-
sale of distilled liquor produced by the distiller for consumption on the
premises of or adjacent to one distillery location owned by the distiller. The
holder of a microdistillery cocktail room license may also hold a license to
operate a restaurant at the distillery. No more than one cocktail room license
may be issued to any distiller and a microdistillery cocktail room license may
not be issued to any person having an ownership interest in a distillery
licensed under M.S. § 340A.301 Subd. 6(a), as it may be amended from time to
time. No single entity may hold both a microdistillery cocktail room and
taproom license and a microdistillery cocktail room and taproom license may not
be co-located. Within ten days of the issuance of a microdistillery cocktail
room license, the city shall inform the commissioner of public safety of the
licensee’s name and address and trade name, and the effective date and
expiration date of the license. The city shall also inform the commissioner of
public safety of a microdistillery cocktail room license transfer,
cancellation, suspension, or revocation during the license period.
   (S)   A microdistiller off-sale license may be issued to the holder of a
state microdistillery license. A microdistiller off-sale license authorizes
off-sale of one 375 milliliter bottle per customer per day of product
manufactured on-site provided the product is also available for distribution to
wholesalers.
   (T)   A microdistiller temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license may be
issued to the holder of a state microdistillery license. A microdistillery
temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license authorizes on-sale of
intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the city sponsored
by the microdistillery.
§ 111.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licensees may request a reduction in
their annual license fee by the amount specified in M.S. § 340A.408, as it may
be amended from time to time, if at the time of initial application or renewal
they:
      (1)   Agree to have a private vendor approved by the city train all
employees within 60 days of hire and annually thereafter in laws pertaining to
the sale of alcohol, the rules for identification checks, and the
responsibilities of establishments serving intoxicating liquors;
      (2)   Post a policy requiring identification checks for all persons
appearing to be 30 years old or less;
      (3)   Establish a written cash award and incentive program to award
employees who catch underage drinkers and a written penalty program to punish
employees in the event of a failed compliance check;
      (4)   Failure to abide by the provisions of this division may result in
suspension of the license until the conditions of the fee reduction are met and
may result in suspension and/or revocation of the license pursuant to §
111.36 of this chapter.
§ 111.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
§ 111.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
§ 111.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 111.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
§ 111.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 111.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the school or church to
the closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an “on-sale” license shall receive
training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training
shall be provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training
shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
   (F)   Failure by an off-sale intoxicating liquor licensee who has received a
fee reduction pursuant to §
111.23(F) of this chapter to abide with the provisions of §
111.23(F).
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing services
in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose building
serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.35 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.36 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any
rules promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, or
violation of §
111.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
            (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at
least one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which
may be imposed.
            (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
            (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at
least seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
            (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the
license shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the City Administrator-Treasurer, a hearing before the Council shall be
granted within ten days. Any suspension under this division (C) shall continue
until the Council determines that the financial responsibility requirements of
state law and this chapter have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
111.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
111.99
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORES
§ 111.50 APPLICATION OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter, consisting of §§
111.50 through
111.55, applies only to a city that has in existence on the effective date of
this chapter a municipal liquor store.
§ 111.51 EXISTING MUNICIPAL STORES CONTINUED.
   If the city has in existence on the effective date of this chapter a
municipal liquor store for the sale of intoxicating liquor, the store is
continued. Except as provided in §
111.55, no intoxicating liquor may be sold at retail elsewhere in the city.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.52 LOCATION.
   The municipal liquor store shall be located at a suitable place in the city
as the Council determines by motion. However, no premises upon which taxes,
assessments, or other public charges are delinquent shall be leased for
municipal liquor store purposes. The Council shall have the right to establish
additional off-sale and on-sale stores at other locations as it may, from time
to time, by motion, determine.
§ 111.53 OPERATION.
   (A)   Manager. The municipal liquor store shall be in the immediate charge
of a Liquor Store Manager selected by the Council and paid compensation as is
fixed by the Council. The Manager shall not be a person who would be prohibited
by law or any provision of this chapter from being eligible for an intoxicating
liquor license. The Manager shall furnish a surety bond to the city,
conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of the office, in a sum
as specified by the Council. The bond premium may be paid by the city or the
Manager, in the discretion of the Council. The Manager shall operate the
municipal liquor store under the Council’s direction and shall perform those
duties in connection with the store as may be established by the Council. The
Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the conduct of the store in
full compliance with this chapter and with the laws relating to the sale of
intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor.
   (B)   Other employees. The Council may also appoint additional employees as
may be required and shall fix their compensation. All employees, including the
Manager, shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the Council. No person
under the age of 18 shall be employed in the store. The Council may require the
employees to furnish surety bonds conditioned for the faithful discharge of
their duties in a sum as specified by the Council. The premium on the bond may
be paid by the city or the employees, as the Council determines.
   (C)   Municipal liquor store fund. All of the revenues received from the
operation of a municipal liquor store shall be deposited in a municipal liquor
store fund from which all ordinary operating expenses, including compensation
of the Manager and employees, shall be paid. Surpluses accumulating in the fund
may be transferred to the general fund of the city or to any other appropriate
fund of the city by resolution of the Council, and may be expended for any
municipal purpose. The handling of municipal liquor store receipts and
disbursements shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law and charter for
the receipts and disbursements of city funds generally.
   (D)   Financial statement. The Council shall provide within 90 days
following the end of the calendar year for publication a balance sheet using
generally accepted accounting procedures and a statement of operations of the
municipal liquor store for that year. The balance sheet and statement shall be
published in accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 471.6985, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Hours of operation. The hours during which the sale of intoxicating
liquor may be sold shall be as provided in §
111.33. No person, other than the Manager or a store employee, may remain in
the municipal liquor store longer than one-half hour after the time when the
sale of intoxicating liquor must cease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.54 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility required by
licensees of retail intoxicating liquor establishments under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 111.55 ISSUANCE OF OTHER LICENSES.
   (A)   On-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. The Council may
issue in its sound discretion on-sale licenses to a club under M.S. § 340A.404,
Subd. 1(4), as it may be amended from time to time. If the voters have
authorized their issuance at a special election called for that purpose, the
Council may issue on its sound discretion on-sale liquor licenses to hotels and
restaurants. The number of on-sale licenses issued under this section is
governed by M.S. § 340A.413, as it may be amended from time to time, as limited
by the provisions of this chapter. The issuance of these licenses is governed
by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. State law does
not authorize the issuance of off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating
liquor by cities which operate a municipal liquor dispensary.
   (C)   On- and off-sale 3.2% malt liquor licenses. The Council may issue 3.2%
malt liquor licenses in its sound discretion as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Brewer taproom license. The Council may issue brewer taproom licenses
in its sound discretion as provided in this chapter.
   (E)   Microdistillery cocktail room license. The Council may issue
microdistillery cocktail room licenses in its sound discretion as provided in
this chapter.
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Chapter
340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any rules promulgated under
that chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of
this chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in
order for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the
Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended
from time to time, is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the
Council shall hold a hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty
and hear any person who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds
for suspension or revocation of the license. The following is the minimum
schedule of presumptive civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to
any suspension unless the licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any three-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any three-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period, $2,000.
   (C)   The term “violation” as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Chaper 340A, as it may
be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as
they may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be
determined on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding three-
year period. Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for
which revocation is imposed.
CHAPTER 112: TOBACCO SALES
Section
   
112.01   Authority
   
112.02   Purpose and intent
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   License
   
112.05   Fees
   
112.06   Training
   
112.07   Basis for denial of license
   
112.08   Prohibited sales
   
112.09   Vending machines
   
112.10   Liquid packaging
   
112.11   Self-service sales
   
112.12   Responsibility
   
112.13   Compliance checks and inspections
   
112.14   Other illegal acts
   
112.15   Violations
   
112.16   Exceptions and defenses
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 AUTHORITY.
   The city shall license and regulate the sale of tobacco, tobacco-related
devices, electronic delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery products
within its city limits pursuant to its authority granted by M.S. § 461.12, as
it may be amended from time to time.
(2009 Code, § 504.01)
§ 112.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Because the city recognizes that many persons under the age of 21 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco-related devices,
electronic delivery devices and nicotine or lobelia delivery products, and such
sales, possession and use are violations of both state and federal laws;
because studies, which are hereby accepted and adopted, have shown that most
smokers begin smoking before they have reached the age of 21 years and that
those persons who reach the age of 21 years without having started smoking are
significantly less likely to begin smoking; and because tobacco use has been
shown to be the cause of several serious health problems which subsequently
place a financial burden on all levels of government: this chapter is intended
to regulate the sale, possession and use of tobacco, tobacco-related devices,
electronic delivery devices and nicotine or lobelia delivery products for the
purpose of enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect minors against
the serious effects associated with the illegal use of tobacco, tobacco-related
devices, electronic delivery devices and nicotine or lobelia delivery products
and to further the official public policy of the state in regard to preventing
young people from starting to smoke and using other tobacco products as stated
in M.S. § 144.391, as it may be amended from time to time.
(2009 Code, § 504.02)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The singular shall include
the plural and the plural shall include the singular. The masculine shall
include the feminine and neuter, and vice-versa. The term SHALL means mandatory
and the term MAY means permissive. The following terms shall have the
definitions given to them:
   CHILD RESISTANT PACKAGING. Packaging that meets the definition set forth in
16 C.F.R. § 1700.15(b), as in effect on January 1, 2015, and was tested in
accordance with the method described in 16 C.F.R. § 1700.20.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS.  The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery
devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery products are following and complying
with the requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall involve the use
of minors as authorized by this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the
use of minors who attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco-related devices,
electronic delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery products for
education, research and training purposes as authorized by state and federal
laws. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of government for
the purpose of enforcing appropriate federal, state and local laws, and
regulations relating to tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery
devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery products.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia or any other substance intended for human consumption that can be used
by a person to simulate smoking in the delivery of nicotine or any other
substance through inhalation of vapor from the product. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY
DEVICE shall include any component part of such a product whether or not sold
separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE shall not include any product that has
been approved or otherwise certified by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product or for other medical
purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco product wrapped
individually for sale. INDIVIDUALLY WRAPPED TOBACCO AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS shall
include, but not limited to, single cigarette packs, single bags or cans of
loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging of snuff, chewing
tobacco, electronic delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery devices.
Cartons or other packaging containing more than a single pack or other
container as described in this division shall not be considered INDIVIDUALLY
PACKAGED.
   INDOOR AREA. All the space between the floor and a ceiling that is bounded
by walls, doorways or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than 50%
of the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the perimeter
of the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door or physical
barrier, whether temporary or permanent. A standard (0.01 gauge) window screen
is not considered a wall.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette or cigar. The term LOOSIES does not include individual cigars with a
retail price before any sales tax of more than $2 per cigar.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 21 years.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a kiosk,
truck, van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and
not a fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized
for sales transactions.
   NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCTS. Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of such a
product, that is not tobacco or an electronic delivery device as defined in
this section, not including any product that has been approved or otherwise
certified for legal sale by the United States Food and Drug Administration for
tobacco use cessation, harm reduction or for other medical purposes, and is
being marketed and sold solely for such approved purpose.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco-related
devices, electronic delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery products
are available for sale to the general public. RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS shall
include, but not limited to, grocery stores, convenience stores, restaurants
and drug stores that sell tobacco.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco-related devices,
electronic delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery products in any
manner where any person shall have access to the tobacco, tobacco-related
devices, electronic delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery products
without the assistance or intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s
employee. The assistance or intervention shall entail the actual physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco-related device, electronic delivery device or
nicotine or lobelia delivery product between the customer and the licensee or
employee. SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING shall not include vending machines.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. Inhaling or exhaling smoke from any instrumentality,
including but not limited to any cigar, cigarette, pipe, hookah pipe or
operating an electronic cigarette, or having in possession any such
instrumentality producing smoke or engaging in any act that generates smoke.
SMOKING shall include carrying a lighted or heated cigarette, cigar or pipe or
any other lighted or heated tobacco or plant product intended for inhalation or
carrying an electronic delivery device that is turned on or otherwise
activated.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Include cigarettes and any product containing,
made or derived from tobacco that is intended for human consumption, whether
chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed or ingested by
any other means, or any component, part or accessory of a tobacco product;
including, but not limited to, cigarettes: cigars; cheroots; stogies; perique;
granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and other smoking tobacco; snuff;
snuff flour; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and other chewing
tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco;
and other kinds and forms of tobacco. TOBACCO excludes any tobacco product that
has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as
a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for such an approved
purpose.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Any pipe, rolling papers or other device
intentionally designed or intended to be used in a manner which enables the
chewing, sniffing or smoking of tobacco or tobacco products or the inhalation
of vapor from an electronic delivery device. TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES include
accessories or components of tobacco-related devices, which may be marketed or
sold separately.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery
devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery products upon the insertion of money,
tokens, other form of payment directly into the machine by the person seeking
to purchase the tobacco, tobacco-related device, electronic delivery device or
nicotine or lobelia delivery product.
(2009 Code, § 504.03)
§ 112.04 LICENSE.
   No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco-related device,
electronic delivery device, pipes and rolling papers or nicotine or lobelia
delivery product in the city without a valid license to sell such product in
the city.
   (A)   Application. Any application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco-
related devices, electronic delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery
devices shall be made on a form provided by the city. The application shall
contain the full name of the applicant, the applicant’s residential and
business addresses and telephone numbers, the name of the business for which
the license is sought, and any additional information the city deems necessary.
Upon receipt of a completed application, the City Administrator-Treasurer shall
forward the application to the City Council for action at its next regularly
scheduled board meeting. If the City Administrator-Treasurer shall determine
that an application is incomplete; he or she shall return the application to
the applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
   (B)   Action. The city may either approve or deny the license, or it may
delay action for such reasonable period of time as necessary, but for no less
than 45 days, to complete any investigation of the application or applicant it
deems necessary. If the City Council shall approve the license, the City
Administrator-Treasurer shall issue the license to the applicant. If the City
Council denies the license, notice of the denial shall be given to the
applicant along with notice of the applicant’s right to appeal the decision.
   (C)   Term. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for one
calendar year from the date of issue.
   (D)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in §§
112.15 and
112.99.
   (E)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the City Council.
   (F)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (G)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   (H)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days but nor more than 60 days before the
expiration of the current license.
   (I)   Issuance as a privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license
issued under this chapter shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute
right of the applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal
of the license.
   (J)   Smoking prohibited. Smoking shall not be permitted and no person shall
smoke within the indoor area of any retail establishment with a retail license.
Smoking for the purposes of sampling tobacco, tobacco-related devices or
electronic delivery devices would be prohibited in tobacco retail stores.
(2009 Code, § 504.04) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee has been paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
determined by the City Council.
(2009 Code, § 504.05)
§ 112.06 TRAINING.
   All licensed tobacco retailers and their staff may attend a one-hour, annual
training to learn about and comply with the federal, state and local laws on
the sale of tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices and
nicotine or lobelia delivery products. Any offered training performed must be
pre-approved by the city.
(2009 Code, § 504.06)
§ 112.07 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of
a license under this chapter; however, except as may otherwise be provided by
law, the existence of any particular ground for denial does not mean that the
city must deny the license.
   (B)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked immediately upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the
license under this section:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 21 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery
devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery products;
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco-related
devices, electronic delivery devices and nicotine or lobelia delivery products
suspended or revoked with the preceding 12 months of the date of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information; or
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation, from holding such a license.
(2009 Code, § 504.07)
§ 112.08 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any tobacco, tobacco- related device, electronic delivery device or
nicotine or lobelia delivery product:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 21 years;
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in this chapter;
   (C)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
make verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premise in order
to receive the tobacco, tobacco-related devices and whereby there is not a
physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco-related device, electronic delivery
devices and nicotine or lobelia delivery products between the licensee or the
licensee’s employee and the customer;
   (D)   By means of loosies as defined in §
112.03;
   (E)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, belladonna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process; and
   (F)   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation.
(2009 Code, § 504.08)
§ 112.09 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco- related devices, electronic delivery devices and
nicotine or lobelia delivery products by the means of a vending machine unless
minors are at all times prohibited from entering the licensed establishment.
(2009 Code, § 504.09) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 LIQUID PACKAGING.
   Any liquid, whether or not such liquid contains nicotine, intended for human
consumption and sold for use in an electronic delivery device must be sold in a
child-resistant packaging. Upon request, a licensee shall provide a copy of the
certificate of compliance or full laboratory testing report for the packaging
used.
(2009 Code, § 504.10)
§ 112.11 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the sale of
tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices or nicotine or
lobelia delivery products by any means whereby the customer may have access to
such items without having to request the item from the licensee or the
licensee’s employee and whereby there is not a physical exchange of the
tobacco, tobacco-related device, electronic delivery device or nicotine or
lobelia delivery product between the licensee or his or her clerk and the
customer. All tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices or
nicotine or lobelia delivery products, shall either be stored behind the
counter or other area not freely accessible to customers, or in case or other
storage unit not left open and accessible to the general public within 30 days
of the effective date of this chapter.
(2009 Code, § 504.11) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco-related devices,
electronic delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery products on the
licensed premises, and the sale of such an item by an employee shall be
considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as prohibiting the city from also subjecting the clerk to whatever
penalties are appropriate under this chapter, state or federal laws, or other
applicable law or regulation.
(2009 Code, § 504.12)
§ 112.13 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the County Sheriffs
Department during regular business hours. From time to time, but at least once
per year, the city or its designee shall conduct compliance checks by engaging,
with the written consent of their parents or guardians, minors over the age of
15 years, but less than 21 years, to enter the licensed premise to attempt to
purchase tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices or
nicotine or lobelia delivery products. Minors used for the purpose of
compliance checks shall be supervised by designated law enforcement officers or
other designated city personnel. Minors used for compliance checks shall not be
guilty of the unlawful purchase or attempted purchase nor the unlawful
possession of tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices or
nicotine or lobelia delivery products, when such items are obtained or
attempted to be obtained as a part of the compliance check. No minor used in
compliance checks shall attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting
the minor’s age and all minors lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall
answer all questions about the minor’s age asked by the licensee or his or her
employee and shall provide any identification, if any exists, for which he or
she is asked. Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks
authorized by the state or federal laws for education, research or training
purposes, or required for the enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(2009 Code, § 504.13)
§ 112.14 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco-related device, electronic
delivery device or nicotine or lobelia delivery product to a minor.
   (B)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco-related device,
electronic delivery device or nicotine or lobelia delivery product. This
division (B) shall not apply to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (C)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to
smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco-related devices,
electronic delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery product.
   (D)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco,
tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia
delivery product, and it shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to
purchase or otherwise obtain such items on behalf of a minor. It shall further
be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a minor to
illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco, tobacco- related
devices, electronic delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia delivery product.
   (E)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false
form of identification, whether the identification is that of another person or
one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to
represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
(2009 Code, § 504.14) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.15 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged violator
shall be issued a citation from the County Sheriff, either personally or by
certified mail, that sets forth the alleged violation and which shall inform
the alleged violator of his or her right to be heard on the accusation.
   (B)   Hearings. If a person accused of violating this chapter so requests in
writing, a hearing shall be scheduled within ten to 14 days of the violation or
such right will be forfeited, the time and place of which shall be published
and provided to the accused violator.
   (C)   Hearing Officer. The city official designated by the City Council or
its designee shall serve as the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer must be an
impartial person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
   (D)   Decision. If the Hearing Officer determines that a violation of this
chapter did occur, that decision, along with the Hearing Officer’s reasons for
finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under §
112.99, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the
accused violator. Likewise, if the Hearing Officer finds that no violation
occurred or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, such findings shall be
recorded and a copy provided to the acquitted accused violator.
   (E)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the Hearing Officer shall be
filed in the District Court of the county.
   (F)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter. If the city elects to seek misdemeanor prosecution, no
administrative penalty shall be imposed.
   (G)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense. If a
penalty were lower than the penalty for the infraction under state law, the
state law penalty would apply.
(2009 Code, § 504.15) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco or tobacco-
related devices, to a minor as part of a lawfully recognized religious,
spiritual or cultural ceremony. It shall be an affirmative defense to the
violation of this chapter for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of
age as described by state law.
(2009 Code, § 504.17)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Licensees. Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or whose
employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged an administrative
fee of $75 for a first violation of this chapter; $200 for a second offense at
the same licensed premises within a 24-month period; and $250 for a third and
subsequent offense at the same location within a 24-month period. In addition,
after the third offense, the license shall be revoked. The license shall not be
re-issued for a period of at least six months.
   (B)   Other individuals. Other individuals found to be in violation of this
chapter shall be charged an administrative fine of $50 for the first violation
of this section, $100 fine for the second violation of this section within a
12-month period, and a $150 fine for a third violation of within a 12-month
period.
   (C)   Minors. Minors found in unlawful possession of, or who unlawfully
purchase or attempts to purchase tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic
delivery devices or nicotine or lobelia products shall be subject to an
administrative fine, or may be subject to tobacco-related education classes,
diversion programs, community services or another penalty that the city
believes will be appropriate and effective. The administrative fine or other
penalty shall be established by city ordinance upon the City Council’s
consultation with interested parties of the courts, educators, parents and
children to determine an appropriate penalty for minors in the city.
   (D)   Misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from
seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of this chapter.
(2009 Code, § 504.16)
CHAPTER 113: BINGO, GAMBLING AND RAFFLES
Section
   
113.01   Statute adopted
   
113.02   Reporting requirements
   
113.03   Violations
§ 113.01 STATUTE ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.23, as they may be amended from
time to time, relating to the licensing of certain kinds of gambling are
adopted and made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. In addition, the
regulations imposed by this chapter apply to the conduct of gambling so
licensed.
(2009 Code, § 505.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Each organization licensed under this chapter must report monthly its
membership and to the City Administrator-Treasurer its gross receipts, expenses
and profits from gambling devices or raffles, and the distribution of its
profits. The licensee shall preserve these records for two years.
(2009 Code, § 505.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a gross
misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 505.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: AIRPORT
Section
   
114.01   Commercial operators
   
114.02   Tie down fees
   
114.03   Violations
§ 114.01 COMMERCIAL OPERATORS.
   (A)   Commercial sprayers. Each commercial air sprayer shall apply for a
license to use the facilities of the City Airport. Each application shall be
accompanied by a damage deposit which shall be set by Council resolution, and a
copy shall be in §
39.01. The damage deposit must be in the form of a money order or certified
check payable to the city. The city shall place the funds received as damage
deposits in an escrow account.
   (B)   Licenses required. At the time a commercial air sprayer provided the
damage deposit to the city, the commercial air sprayer shall be prepared to
present to the city or its agent evidence of any licenses required by law.
These licenses shall include:
      (1)   Department of Agriculture license;
      (2)   Part 137- Agricultural Commercial Operator’s Certificate;
      (3)   State Department of Transportation license;
      (4)   Valid commercial pilot’s license; and
      (5)   Proof of liability insurance.
   (C)   Refund of deposit. The sum paid as a damage deposit under §
114.01 shall be refundable to the applicant providing the deposit at the time
of the applicant’s departure from the city’s Municipal Airport, provided that
the applicant has cleaned up any damage caused by the applicant and has
successfully restored the area used by the applicant to its original condition.
In the event that the applicant does not maintain the area rented for the
applicant’s use, the city shall hire the necessary personnel, including
employees, to restore the area to its original condition and the charge for the
cleanup shall be deducted from the deposit before it is refunded. In the event
the cleanup charge is greater than the damage deposit, the applicant shall be
liable to the city for any additional sums.
(2009 Code, § 507.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.02 TIE DOWN FEES.
   (A)   Commercial operators. After the applicant has obtained the proper
approval of the city, a commercial operator shall pay a tie down fee which
shall be set by Council resolution in §
39.01. This fee must be paid prior to departure. However, no tie down charge
shall be made to any commercial operators who use the City Airport for less
than 48 continuous hours. If the commercial operator uses the airport’s
services for more than 48 continuous hours, at the end of the time of usage,
the tie down fee shall be assessed retroactively to the first day of use.
   (B)   Private users. Each private user of the City Airport shall pay a tie
down fee which shall be set by Council resolution and a copy of this shall be
in §
39.01.
(2009 Code, § 507.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.03 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Notwithstanding the foregoing penalty, the city may apply to the
District Court for the county, for injunctive relief against any individual
violating this chapter in addition to the misdemeanor penalty.
(2009 Code, § 507.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
115.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
115.04   License ineligibility
   
115.05   License suspension and revocation
   
115.06   License transferability
   
115.07   Registration
   
115.08   Prohibited activities
   
115.09   Exclusion by placard
   
115.10   Effectiveness
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER.  A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
“hawker.”
   PERSON.  Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the
same as the term “canvasser”.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT.  A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for
more than 14 consecutive days.
§ 115.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by
the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
115.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
§ 115.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S.
Chapter 329 as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a
license for the activity.
   (B)   City license required. Pursuant to M.S. § 437.02, as it may be amended
from time to time, except as otherwise provided for by this chapter, no person
shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient merchant without
first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need not be licensed,
but are still required to register pursuant to §
115.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least three regular business
days before the applicant desires to begin conducting business operations in
the city. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the
City Council and available from the office of the City Administrator-Treasurer.
All applications shall be signed by the applicant. All applications shall
include the following information:
      (1)   Applicant’s full legal name.
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers.
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like).
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence.
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence.
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent.
      (7)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business (if any).
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines.
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license.
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license.
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city, with a maximum 14 consecutive
days.
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business.
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses.
      (14)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant.
      (15)   Proof of any required county license.
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant.
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council.
      (19)   The applicant’s driver's license number or other acceptable form
of identification.
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number (VIN) for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business, and a physical description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and
Charges, adopted pursuant to §
39.01 as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Administrator-Treasurer, within two regular business
days, must determine if the application is complete. An application is
determined to be complete only if all required information is provided. If the
City Administrator-Treasurer determines that the application is incomplete, the
City Administrator- Treasurer must inform the applicant of the required
necessary information that is missing. If the application is complete, the City
Administrator-Treasurer must order any investigation, including background
checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the application.
Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete application the City
Administrator-Treasurer must issue the license unless there exist grounds for
denying the license under §
115.04, in which case the City Administrator- Treasurer must deny the license
application. If the City Administrator-Treasurer denies the license
application, the applicant must be notified in writing of the decision, the
reason for denial, and of the applicant’s right to appeal the denial by
requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing
before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days
of the date of the request for a public hearing. The decision of the City
Council following the public hearing can be appealed by petitioning the
Minnesota Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted to
peddlers and transient merchants under this chapter shall be valid only during
the time period indicated on the license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place movement when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that
person’s State or Federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech,
press, religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the
person’s exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license.
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person’s
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant.
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Office of the Minnesota Attorney General, or other state attorney
general’s office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or
agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints filed against the
applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 115.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by the applicant on the application form.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
      (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense for which granting of a
license could have been denied under §
115.04.
      (4)   Engaging in prohibited activity as provided under §
115.08.
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Administrator-Treasurer within
ten regular business days following the service of the notice, the city may
proceed with the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices,
service shall be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the
mail. If a public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing
shall be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three
regular business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the
licensee of its decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.07 REGISTRATION.
   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of
this chapter under §
115.03, shall be required to register with the city. Persons engaging in door-
to-door advocacy shall not be required to register. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering as vehicles for
the dissemination of religious, political and other ideas. Registration shall
be made on the same form required for a license application, but no fee shall
be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City
Administrator-Treasurer shall issue to the registrant a Certificate of
Registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of Registration shall
be non-transferable.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public.
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person.
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conducting business in a manner a reasonable person would find
obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants”, or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient
Merchants Prohibited”, or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign
or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.10 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The provisions of §§
115.01,
115.02,
115.08 and
115.09 shall automatically apply upon adoption of this chapter. Sections
115.03,
115.04,
115.05,
115.06 and
115.07 shall not be effective until the adoption of a City Council resolution
or ordinance authorizing the licensing of persons covered by those sections.
CHAPTER 116: CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS AND SHOWS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   License required
   
116.03   Inspections
   
116.04   Exemption
   
116.05   Violations
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARNIVALS. Any amusement activities, rides, merry-go-rounds, booths for the
conduct of games of still, food dispensing facilities and sideshows.
   PUBLIC EXHIBITION. Includes circuses, menageries, sideshows and other
similar itinerant amusement enterprises which are open to the public and for
which an admission fee is charged.
(2009 Code, § 513.01)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct or operate a circus, carnival,
show or public exhibition without having first obtained a license from the City
Administrator-Treasurer.
   (A)   The operator and sponsor of the circus, carnival, show or public
exhibition has made an application for a license at least 48 hours before the
giving of such carnival or public exhibition, and the application shall state
the nature of the entertainment to be given and the time and place thereof.
   (B)   The operator and sponsor of the circus, carnival or public exhibition
have each assumed full responsibility for maintaining order and for keeping the
site clean and free of trash, papers and other refuse, and have placed trash
containers in adequate number and in convenient locations for the use of the
public.
   (C)   All rides have been inspected for mechanical, structural, electrical
and other hazards by the appropriate officers and employees of the city, and
adequate safeguards have been placed to protect both operators and the general
public from inadvertently coming into contact with moving parts, belts, motor
gears, electrical switches and other possible or potential hazards and have a
certificate of current safety inspection.
   (D)   The applicant has placed on file with the City Administrator-Treasurer
a certificate or certificates of insurance indicating that there is in effect
public liability insurance covering any damage arising out of the use and
operation of any and all devices and facilities operated in connection with the
circus, carnival, show or public exhibition. Such insurance shall be in the
minimum amount of $100,000 combined single limit or equivalent.
(2009 Code, § 513.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.03 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriffs Department and the Fire Chief to
see that proper inspections and patrols are made of the premises used for the
activities licensed herein.
(2009 Code, § 513.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.04 EXEMPTION.
   No license shall be required for any entertainment given by amateurs or
unpaid performers, or which is given for the benefit of any school, church or
benevolent institution or for any charitable purpose.
(2009 Code, § 513.04)
§ 116.05 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 513.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 117: SALES OF EDIBLE CANNABINOID PRODUCTS
Section
   
117.01   Scope
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   License
   
117.04   Ineligibility and basis for denial of license
   
117.05   Qualifications of licensee
   
117.06   Administrative remedies
   
117.07   Criminal penalties
   
117.08   Prohibited sales
   
117.09   Obviously intoxicated or impaired persons
   
117.10   Zoning area
   
117.11   On or off sale liquor licensee
   
117.12   Self-service sales
   
117.13   Responsibility
   
117.14   Compliance checks
   
117.15   Other prohibited acts
   
117.16   Medical cannabis manufacture, dispensing and use
   
117.17   Exceptions and defenses
   
117.18   Business and license permit fees
§ 117.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter applies to the sale of any product that contains
cannabinoids extracted from hemp and that is an edible cannabinoid product or
is intended for human consumption by any route of administration.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to any product dispensed by a registered
medical cannabis manufacturer pursuant to state law.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning:
   LICENSED PRODUCT or EDIBLE CANNABINOID PRODUCT. Any product that is intended
to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans, contains tetrahydrocannabinol
in combination with food ingredients, and is not a drug.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SAMPLE. Any quantity of an edible cannabinoid product, given for free or a
nominal cost, so a person can try it or examine it before making the decision
to purchase.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall, directly or indirectly, or by means
of any device, keep for retail sale, sell at retail, or otherwise dispose of
any edible cannabinoid products without a license therefor.
   (B)   Application. An application for a license to sell edible cannabinoid
products must be made on a form provided by the city. Application for a license
shall state the full name and the residential and business addresses and
telephone numbers of the applicant, the name of the business, the location of
the building intended to be used by the applicant under the license, the kind
of business conducted at such location, and such other information as shall be
required by the city.
   (C)   License fee. No license shall be issued under this section until the
appropriate license fees are paid in full. License fees shall not be prorated
for any reason, including where licenses are issued for terms less than one
year. The fees for such licenses will be established by the city’s fee
schedule. The city may from time to time amend and change the permit fees by
and amendment of the fee schedule or passage of a subsequent fee schedule.
   (D)   Term. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid from
January 1 through December 31 of each year.
   (E)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this section may be
revoked or suspended as provided in the administrative remedies section of this
chapter.
   (F)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid. If a transfer is needed, the applicant will need to
reapply and submit new payment of license fees.
   (G)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a movable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this section.
   (H)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   (I)   Issuance as privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license
issued under this section shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute
right of the applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal
of the license.
   (J)   Distribution of samples. No person shall distribute samples of any
edible cannabinoid products free of charge or at nominal cost, including on
licensed premises.
   (K)   Background check. The Police Department shall conduct a criminal
background check on the applicant, and any and all owners with 10% or more
ownership interest in the business. Where the applicant is a firm, association,
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or joint venture, the
Police Department may conduct a criminal background check on the applicant,
local manager, or agent of the licensed premises, in addition to any and all
owners with a 10% or more ownership interest in the business. In the event a
national criminal background investigation is required, the applicant shall be
responsible for all additional fees incurred for such and, upon request,
provide additional information required to complete this process. All
applicants are required to complete an informed consent authorizing the
disclosure of all criminal history record information. The City Clerk and the
Police Department shall review such application and, without further
authorization on the part of the Council, issue such license to the applicant
if the applicant is eligible therefor.
   (L)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this chapter will be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal must be made at least 30 calendar days, but no more than 60 calendar
days, before the expiration of the current license.
   (M)   Signage. Notice of the legal sales age and age verification
requirement must be always posted prominently and in plain view at each
location where edible cannabinoid products are offered for sale. The required
signage must be posted in a manner that is clearly visible to anyone who is or
is considering making a purchase.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.04 INELIGIBILITY AND BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Ineligibility.
      (1)   Moveable place of business. No license under this section shall be
issued to a movable place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be
eligible to be licensed under this section.
      (2)   Financial delinquencies. No license shall be granted or renewed for
operation on any premises on which real estate taxes, assessments, or other
financial claims of the city or of the state are due, delinquent, or unpaid. If
an action has been commenced pursuant to state law, as the same may be amended,
questioning the amount or validity of taxes, the city council may, on
application by the licensee, waive strict compliance with this provision; no
waiver may be granted, however, for taxes, or any portion thereof, which remain
unpaid for a period exceeding one year after becoming due unless such one-year
period is extended through no fault of the licensee.
      (3)   Other establishments and uses. Any establishment or use prohibited
by state law.
   (B)   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license include, but
are not limited to the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 21 years.
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to edible cannabinoid products.
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell edible cannabinoid products
suspended or revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date of application.
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information.
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license.
   (C)   However, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of
any particular ground for denial does not mean that the city must deny the
license.
   (D)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this section.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.05 QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE.
   No license shall be issued to any applicants for sale of edible cannabinoid
products at any place other than their established place of business, nor shall
any license be issued for the sale of edible cannabinoid products at a movable
place of business, nor at more than one place of business, nor as a home
occupation at a residential dwelling unit.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.06 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   Licensees. Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or whose
employees have violated this chapter, shall be subject to the following
penalties, and such violation shall be cause for the imposition of an
administrative penalty, license suspension, and/or license revocation as set
forth below:
   (A)   The first violation shall be subject to an administrative penalty of
$300.
   (B)   The second violation at the same licensed premises within 36 months of
the first violation shall subject licensee to a three-day suspension of the
license and an administrative penalty of $600.
   (C)   The third violation within a 36 month period shall subject licensee to
30 day suspension of the license and an administrative penalty of $1,000.
   (D)   Upon a fourth violation within a 36 month period, the license will be
revoked.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.07 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Penalty. The penalty for violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Subsequent offenses. Nothing in this section prohibits the city from
seeking prosecutions as a misdemeanor for an alleged second violation of this
chapter by a person 21 years of age or older within five years of a previous
conviction under the chapter.
   (C)   Immunity clause. A person under 21 years of age who purchases or
attempts to purchase edible cannabinoid products while under the direct
supervision of a responsible adult for training, education, research, or
enforcement purposes which have been approved by the city manager or his
designee shall not be subject to a criminal penalty.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.08 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to sell or offer to
sell any edible cannabinoid products:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 21 years. Licensees must verify by
means of government-issued photographic identification that the purchaser is at
least 21 years of age.
   (B)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premises in
order to receive the edible cannabinoid products and whereby there is not a
physical exchange between the licensee, or the licensee's employee, and the
customer.
   (C)   By means of any type of vending machine.
   (D)   From any location other than a fixed place of business that is a
licensed premise. Delivery of licensed products from a licensee to a purchaser
who is located off the licensed premises is strictly prohibited.
   (E)   That bear the likeness or contain cartoon-like characteristics of a
real or fictional person, animal, or fruit that appeals to children.
   (F)   Modeled after a brand of products primarily consumed by or marketed to
children.
   (G)   Made by applying an extracted or concentrated hemp-derived cannabinoid
to a commercially available candy or snack food item.
   (H)   Containing an ingredient, other than a hemp-derived cannabinoid, that
is not approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for use in
food.
   (I)   That are packaged in a way that resembles trademarked, characteristic,
or product specialized packaging of any commercially available food product.
   (J)   That are packaged in a container that includes a statement, artwork,
or design that could reasonably mislead any person to believe that the package
contains anything other than an edible cannabinoid product.
   (K)   That are not prepackaged in packaging or placed in packaging or a
container that is child resistant, tamper-evident, and opaque at the final
point of sale to a customer. The requirement that packaging be child-resistant
does not apply to an edible cannabinoid product that is intended to be consumed
as a beverage and which contains no more than a trace amount of any
tetrahydrocannabinol.
   (L)   Without a label containing at least the following information affixed
to the packaging or container of all edible cannabinoid products sold to
consumers:
      (1)   The serving size;
      (2)   The cannabinoid profile per serving and in total;
      (3)   A list of ingredients, including identification of any major food
allergens declared by name;
      (4)   The following statement: “Keep this product out of reach of
children”; and
      (5)   The name and address of the manufacturer of the cannabinoid
product.
   (M)   At any place other than for where the license was issued.
   (N)   For consumption or use on any premises that holds a license issued
under this section.
   (O)   By any other means, to any other person, on any other manner or form
prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance, provision or other
regulation.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.09 OBVIOUSLY INTOXICATED OR IMPAIRED PERSONS.
   No person shall sell, give, furnish, dispense, distribute, or in any way
procure for another person any licensed products for use by an obviously
intoxicated person or a person who is obviously impaired by or under the
influence of licensed products or any controlled or intoxicating substance.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.10 ZONING AREA.
   Licenses shall be issued only to businesses located within a commercial/
retail zoning area of the city.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.11 ON OR OFF SALE LIQUOR LICENSEE.
   Any on or off sale liquor licensee shall have a separate area for the sale
of edible cannabinoid products, that is separate from the liquor service area.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.12 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   No person shall allow the sale of edible cannabinoid products by self-
service displays where the customer may have access to those items without
having to request the item from the licensee or the licensee's employee and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the edible cannabinoid products
between the licensee or the licensee’s employee and the customer. All edible
cannabinoid products shall either be securely stored behind a counter or other
area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage unit not
left open and accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling edible
cannabinoid products at the time this chapter is adopted shall comply with this
section within 90 calendar days following the effective date of this section.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.13 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this section shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of edible cannabinoid products on the
licensed premises, and the sale of an item by an employee shall be considered a
sale by the license holder. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the city from also subjecting the clerk to whatever penalties are
appropriate under this section, state or federal law, or other applicable law
or regulation.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.14 COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   All licensed premises must be open to inspection by law enforcement or other
authorized city officials during regular business hours. From time to time, the
city may conduct compliance checks. The city may conduct a compliance check
that involves the participation of a person at least 17 years of age, but under
the age of 21 to enter the licensed premises to attempt to purchase edible
cannabinoid products. Prior written consent from a parent or guardian is
required for any person under the age of 18 to participate in a compliance
check. Persons used for the purpose of compliance checks will be supervised by
law enforcement or other designated personnel.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.15 OTHER PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Prohibited furnishing or procurement. It is a violation of this chapter for
any person 21 years of age or older to purchase or otherwise obtain any edible
cannabinoid products on behalf of a person under the age of 21. It is a
violation for any person 21 years of age and older to coerce or attempt to
coerce a person under the age of 21 to purchase or attempt to purchase any
edible cannabinoid products.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.16 MEDICAL CANNABIS MANUFACTURE, DISPENSING AND USE.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit, prevent, impede, or otherwise
change any person’s right to lawfully manufacture, obtain, dispense,
distribute, possess, prescribe, or use medical cannabis in compliance with
state law. Provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed to grant
or expand those rights.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.17 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   Nothing in this section shall prevent the providing of any edible
cannabinoid products to a minor as part of a lawfully recognized religious,
spiritual, or cultural ceremony. It shall be an affirmative defense to the
violation of this section for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of
age as described by state law.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
§ 117.18 BUSINESS AND LICENSE PERMIT FEES.
   The city shall set the license fee for the cannabinoid product license
annually as part of its fee schedule. The initial license fee at the time of
the adoption of this chapter is $350.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2022)
CHAPTER 118: CANNABIS AND LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES
Section
   
118.01   Administration
   
118.02   Registration of cannabis businesses
   
118.03   Requirements for cannabis businesses
   
118.04   Temporary cannabis events
   
118.05   Lower-potency hemp edibles
   
118.06   Local government as a cannabis retailer
§ 118.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Findings and purpose. The City of Red Lake Falls makes the following
legislative findings:
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of M.S.
Ch. 342, as it may be amended from time to time, which authorizes the City of
Red Lake Falls to protect the public health, safety, welfare of Red Lake Falls
residents by regulating cannabis businesses within the legal boundaries of Red
Lake Falls.
      (2)   The City of Red Lake Falls finds and concludes that the proposed
provisions are appropriate and lawful land use regulations for the City of Red
Lake Falls that the proposed amendments will promote the community's interest
in reasonable stability in zoning for now and in the future, and that the
proposed provisions are in the public interest and for the public good.
   (B)   Authority and jurisdiction.
      (1)   The City of Red Lake Falls has the authority to adopt this chapter
pursuant to:
         (a)   M.S. § 342.13(c), as it may be amended from time to time,
regarding the authority of a local unit of government to adopt reasonable
restrictions of the time, place, and manner of the operation of a cannabis
business provided that such restrictions do not prohibit the establishment or
operation of cannabis businesses.
         (b)   M.S. § 342.22, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding
the local registration and enforcement requirements of state-licensed cannabis
retail businesses and lower-potency hemp edible retail businesses.
         (c)   M.S. § 152.0263, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time, regarding the use of cannabis in public places.
         (d)   M.S. § 462.357, as it may be amended from time to time,
regarding the authority of a local authority to adopt zoning ordinances.
      (2)   This chapter shall be applicable to the legal boundaries of the
City of Red Lake Falls.
   (C)   Enforcement. The County Sheriff and Zoning Administrator are
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. Any
violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law.
Violations of this chapter can occur regardless of whether or not a permit is
required for a regulated activity listed in this chapter.
   (D)   Definitions. Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and phrases
contained in M.S. § 342.01, as it may be amended from time to time, and the
rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts, shall have the same meanings
in this chapter.
      CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis
plants within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to
mature plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label
immature plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis
businesses, transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the
same premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
      CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES. A retail location and the retail location(s)
of a mezzobusiness with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, excluding lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
      CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
      DAYCARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human
Services to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child's own
home for gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
      LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under M.S. § 342.01 Subd. 50, as it
may be amended from time to time.
      OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as “OCM” in this chapter.
      PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
public.
      PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business
license for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17, as it may be amended
from time to time.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk; any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor establishment; hospitals;
nursing homes; auditoriums; arenas; gyms; meeting rooms; common areas of rental
apartment buildings, and other places of public accommodation.
      RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under M.S. § 245.462, Subd.
23, as it may be amended from time to time.
      RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the City of Red
Lake Falls to a state-licensed cannabis retail business.
      SCHOOL. A public school as defined under M.S. § 120A.05, as it may be
amended from time to time, or a nonpublic school that must meet the reporting
requirements under M.S. § 120A.24, as it may be amended from time to time.
      STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota’s
Office of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 118.02 REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Consent to registering of cannabis businesses.
      (1)   No individual or entity may operate a state-licensed cannabis
retail business within the City of Red Lake Falls without first registering
with the City of Red Lake Falls.
      (2)   Any state-licensed cannabis retail business that sells to a
customer or patient without valid retail registration shall incur a civil
penalty of up to $2,000 for each violation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the state shall not issue
a license to any cannabis business to operate in Indian country, as defined in
United States Code, Title 18, Section 1151, of a Minnesota Tribal government
without the consent of the Tribal government.
   (B)   Compliance checks prior to retail registration.
      (1)   Prior to issuance of a cannabis retail business registration, the
City of Red Lake Falls shall conduct a preliminary compliance check to ensure
compliance with local ordinances.
      (2)   Pursuant to M.S. Ch. 342, as it may be amended from time to time,
within 30 days of receiving a copy of a state license application from OCM, the
City of Red Lake Falls shall certify on a form provided by OCM whether a
proposed cannabis retail business complies with local zoning ordinances and, if
applicable, whether the proposed business complies with the state fire code and
building code.
   (C)   Registration and application procedure.
      (1)   Fees.
         (a)   The City of Red Lake Falls shall not charge an application fee.
         (b)   A registration fee, as established in the City of Red Lake
Falls’ fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants depending on the type of
retail business license applied for.
         (c)   An initial retail registration fee shall not exceed $500 or half
the amount of an initial state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, as it may be
amended from time to time, whichever is less. The initial registration fee
shall include the initial retail registration fee and the first annual renewal
fee.
         (d)   Any renewal retail registration fee imposed by the City of Red
Lake Falls shall be charged at the time of the second renewal and each
subsequent renewal thereafter.
         (e)   A renewal retail registration fee shall not exceed $1,000 or
half the amount of a renewal state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, as it may
be amended from time to time, whichever is less.
         (f)   A medical combination business operating an adult-use retail
location may only be charged a single registration fee, not to exceed the
lesser of a single retail registration fee, defined under this section, of the
adult-use retail business.
      (2)   Application submittal. The City of Red Lake Falls shall issue a
retail registration to a state-licensed cannabis retail business that adheres
to the requirements of M.S. § 342.22, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (a)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the City of Red Lake Falls. Said form shall
include, but is not limited to:
            1.   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            2.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
            3.   The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought; and
            4.   Certification that the applicant complies with the
requirements of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13, as it
may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   The applicant shall include with the form:
            1.   The application fee as required in division (C)(1) of this
section; and
            2.   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM
license preapproval.
         (c)   Once an application is considered complete, the Zoning
Administrator shall inform the applicant as such, process the registration
fees, and forward the application to the City Council that will approve or deny
the request for approval or denial.
         (d)   The application fee shall be nonrefundable once processed.
      (3)   Application approval.
         (a)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not
be approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of
this section.
         (b)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application that meets
the requirements of this section shall be approved.
      (4)   Annual compliance checks.
         (a)   The City of Red Lake Falls shall complete at minimum one
compliance check per calendar year of every cannabis business to assess if the
business meets age verification requirements, as required under M.S. §§ 342.22,
Subd. 4(b) and 342.24, as they may be amended from time to time, and this
chapter.
         (b)   The City of Red Lake Falls shall conduct at minimum one
unannounced age verification compliance check at least once per calendar year.
         (c)   Age verification compliance checks shall involve persons at
least 17 years of age but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written
consent of a parent or guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt
to purchase adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products under the direct
supervision of a law enforcement officer or an employee of the local unit of
government.
         (d)   Any failures under this section must be reported to the Office
of Cannabis Management.
      (5)   Location change. If a state-licensed cannabis retail business seeks
to move to a new location still within the legal boundaries of the City of Red
Lake Falls, it shall notify the City of Red Lake Falls of the proposed location
change, and submit necessary information to meet all the criteria in this
section.
   (D)   Renewal of registration. The City of Red Lake Falls shall renew an
annual registration of a state-licensed cannabis retail business at the same
time OCM renews the cannabis retail business’ license. A state-licensed
cannabis retail business shall apply to renew registration on a form
established by the City of Red Lake Falls. A cannabis retail registration
issued under this chapter shall not be transferred.
      (1)   Renewal fees. The City of Red Lake Falls may charge a renewal fee
for the registration starting at the second renewal, as established in the City
of Red Lake Falls’ fee schedule.
      (2)   Renewal application. The application for renewal of a retail
registration shall include, but is not limited to items required under division
(C)(2) of this section.
   (E)   Suspension of registration.
      (1)   When suspension is warranted. The City of Red Lake Falls may
suspend a cannabis retail business’s registration if it violates an ordinance
of the City of Red Lake Falls or poses an immediate threat to the health or
safety of the public. The City of Red Lake Falls shall immediately notify the
cannabis retail business in writing the grounds for the suspension.
      (2)   Notification to OCM. The City of Red Lake Falls shall immediately
notify the OCM in writing the grounds for the suspension. OCM will provide the
City of Red Lake Falls and cannabis business retailer a response to the
complaint within seven calendar days and perform any necessary inspections
within 30 calendar days.
      (3)   Length of suspension.
         (a)   The suspension of a cannabis retail business registration may be
for up to 30 calendar days, unless OCM suspends the license for a longer
period. The business may not make sales to customers if their registration is
suspended.
         (b)   The City of Red Lake Falls shall reinstate a registration if OCM
determines that the violation(s) have been resolved.
      (4)   Civil penalties. Subject to M.S. § 342.22, Subd. 5(e), as it may be
amended from time to time, the City of Red Lake Falls may impose a civil
penalty, as specified in the City of Red Lake Falls’ fee schedule, for
registration violations, not to exceed $2,000.
   (F)   Limiting of registrations. The City of Red Lake Falls shall at all
times comply with state statute to allow no fewer than one registration for
every 12,500 residents. At the present time, only one retail license
registration shall be allowed.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 118.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   State statutes allow the City of Red Lake Falls to “adopt reasonable
restrictions on the time, place, and manner of the operation of a cannabis
business.”
   (A)   Minimum buffer requirements.
      (1)   The City of Red Lake Falls shall prohibit the operation of a
cannabis business within 500 feet of a school.
      (2)   The City of Red Lake Falls shall prohibit the operation of a
cannabis business within 300 feet of a daycare.
      (3)   The City of Red Lake Falls shall prohibit the operation of a
cannabis business within 300 feet of a residential treatment facility.
      (4)   The City of Red Lake Falls shall prohibit the operation of a
cannabis business within 300 feet of an attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors, including a playground or athletic field.
      (5)   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.367, Subd. 14, as it may be amended from
time to time, nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit an active cannabis
business or a cannabis business seeking registration from continuing operation
at the same site if a (school/daycare/residential treatment facility/attraction
within a public park that is regularly used by minors) moves within the minimum
buffer zone.
   (B)   Zoning and land use.
      (1)   Cultivation. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cultivation are permitted as an industry in the following zoning districts:
Industrial District (I-1).
      (2)   Cannabis manufacturer. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cannabis manufacturer are permitted as an industry in the following zoning
districts: Industrial District (I-1).
      (3)   Hemp manufacturer. Businesses licensed or endorsed for low-potency
hemp edible manufacturers permitted as an industry in the following zoning
districts: Industrial District (I-1).
      (4)   Wholesale. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for wholesale
are permitted as an industry in the following zoning districts: Industrial
District (I-1).
      (5)   Cannabis retail.
         (a)   Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for cannabis retail are
permitted as a commercial business in the following zoning districts:
Commercial Business District.
         (b)   Cannabis retail businesses are not allowed to operate out of a
municipal or public building.
      (6)   Cannabis transportation. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed
for transportation are permitted as a wholesale distributor in the following
zoning districts: Industrial District (I-1).
      (7)   Cannabis delivery. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
delivery are permitted as a wholesale distributor in the following zoning
districts: Industrial District (I-1).
   (C)   Hours of operation. Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sale of
cannabis, cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.,
seven days a week.
   (D)   Advertising. Cannabis businesses must follow the sign regulations as
described in
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances for their respective zoning district.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 118.04 TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS.
   Any individual or business seeking to obtain a cannabis event license must
provide OCM information about the time, location, layout, number of business
participants, and hours of operation. A cannabis event organizer must receive
local approval from the City of Red Lake Falls, including obtaining any
necessary permits or licenses issued by the city before holding a cannabis
event.
   (A)   License or permit required for temporary cannabis events.
Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, the Council may
issue a license for the temporary cannabis events in connection with a social
event sponsored by the licensee.
      (1)   License required.
         (a)   A cannabis event organizer license entitles the license holder
to organize a temporary cannabis event lasting no more than four days.
         (b)   A license or permit is required to be issued and approved by the
City of Red Lake Falls prior to holding a temporary cannabis event.
      (2)   Registration and application procedure.
         (a)   Application for a license shall be made to the City
Administrator on an application provided by the City Administrator. Before
issuance, the license must be approved by the City Council and issued by the
City Administrator upon payment of required fee and completion of other
requirements.
         (b)   A registration fee for a temporary cannabis event license shall
be established by the Council by resolution, which fee may be changed from time
to time.
      (3)   Application submittal and review. The City of Red Lake Falls shall
require an application for temporary cannabis events.
         (a)   An application for a retail registration shall include, but is
not limited to:
            1.   Full name of the property owner and applicant; and
            2.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant.
         (b)   1.   The applicant shall include with the form:
               a.   The application fee as required in division (A)(2) of this
section; and
               b.   A copy of the OCM cannabis event license application,
submitted pursuant to M.S. § 342.39, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to
time.
            2.   The application shall be submitted to the City of Red Lake
Falls, or other designee for review. If the designee determines that a
submitted application is incomplete, they shall return the application to the
applicant with the notice of deficiencies.
         (c)   Once an application is considered complete, the designee shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward the
application to the City Council for approval or denial.
         (d)   The application fee shall be nonrefundable once processed.
         (e)   The application for a license for a temporary cannabis event
shall meet the following standards:
            1.   The event area shall be cordoned off with fencing to prevent
anyone under the age of 21 to enter.
            2.   All entrances to the event area must be manned for security
and all attendees must be checked for ID and age verification. Only adults aged
21 or older may enter the event area.
            3.   Organizers will submit a map of the event area indicating
entrances/ID check areas, vendor areas, etc.
            4.   No license/permit is valid until a temporary cannabis license
is approved by the Office of Cannabis Management.
            5.   No license shall be issued for more than three four-day, four
three-day, six two-day or 12 one-day temporary licenses, in any combination not
to exceed 12 days per year, for a temporary cannabis event to any one
individual, organization or registered political committee, or for any one
location, within a 12-month period.
            6.   The city shall not issue more than one temporary cannabis
event license to any one individual, organization, or registered political
committee, or for any one location, within any 30-day period, unless the
licenses are issued in connection with an event officially designated a
community festival by the city.
            7.   All licenses/permits and licensees are subject to all
provisions of state statutes and this code of ordinances relating to temporary
cannabis events. The licensee shall provide proof of financial responsibility
coverage (insurance).
            8.   Licenses/permits may authorize sales on premises other than
those owned or permanently occupied by the licensee.
         (f)   A request for a temporary cannabis event that meets the
requirements of this section shall be approved.
         (g)   A request for a temporary cannabis event that does not meet the
requirements of this section shall be denied. The City of Red Lake Falls shall
notify the applicant of the standards not met and basis for denial.
         (h)   Temporary cannabis events shall only be held between the hours
of 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 118.05 LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES.
   (A)   Sale of low-potency hemp edibles. The sale of low-potency edibles is
permitted, subject to the conditions within this section.
   (B)   Zoning districts. Low-potency edibles businesses are permitted as a
(type of use) in the following zoning districts: Commercial Business District.
   (C)   Additional standards.
      (1)   Sales within municipal liquor store. The sale of low-potency
edibles is not permitted in a municipal liquor store.
      (2)   Age requirements. Per Minnesota state statue, the sale of low-
potency edibles is permitted only to persons 21 years of age or older.
      (3)   Beverages. The sale of low-potency hemp beverages is permitted in
places that meet requirements of this section.
      (4)   Storage of product. Low-potency edibles shall be sold behind a
counter and stored in a locked case.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 118.06 LOCAL GOVERNMENT AS A CANNABIS RETAILER.
   (A)   The City of Red Lake Falls may establish, own, and operate one
municipal cannabis retail business subject to the restrictions in this chapter.
   (B)   The municipal cannabis retail store shall not be included in any
limitation of the number of registered cannabis retail businesses under §
118.02(F).
   (C)   The City of Red Lake Falls shall be subject to all the same retail
license requirements and procedures applicable to all other applicants.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-17-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   WEAPONS
      
131.   CURFEW
      
132.   BURNING
      
133.   CANNABIS IN PUBLIC PLACES
CHAPTER 130: WEAPONS
Section
   
130.01   Restrictions; exemptions
§ 130.01 RESTRICTIONS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Discharge weapon. No person, except a police officer, in the
performance of duty shall, within the city limits of the city, discharge any
gun, pistol or firearm of any description or carry any such weapon unless it is
dismounted or broken apart or carried in a case in such a manner that it cannot
be discharged, subject to activities which are permitted at the city’s rifle
range.
   (B)   Air rifles, sling shots. No person shall use or discharge any air
rifle or sling shot within the city limits, subject to activities which are
permitted at the city’s rifle range.
   (C)   Offense by parents, guardians. It is unlawful for any parent or
guardian of any person under the age of 18 years knowingly to permit such
person to violate any provision of this section.
   (D)   Deer stands and similar devices. 
      (1)   Generally. Deer stands and other similar devices which may be used
in the taking of wild game including deer are prohibited within the city limits
subject to activities which are permitted at the city’s rifle range.
      (2)   Exceptions. Individuals approved to participate in a special
archery hunt approved by the State DNR in division (F)(1) below may use deer
stands and similar devices that comply with local restrictions.
   (E)   Bow and arrows/cross bows. It is unlawful for any person to shoot a
bow and arrow/crossbow within the city limits of the city, except in the
physical education program in a school supervised by a member of its faculty,
or a community-wide supervised class or an event specifically authorized by the
City Council, or a bow and arrow/crossbow or archery range authorized by the
City Council.
   (F)   Hunting. No person shall use any gun, pistol or firearm of any
description to engage in the practice of hunting wild game including deer
within the city limits.
      (1)   Exceptions. White tail deer may be taken by lawful means of archery
within the city limits during special archery hunts as approved by the State
DNR. All State DNR rules and regulations will apply to any special hunt. The
city may restrict the duration and location of said hunting activities. The
city may also place local restrictions on said permits and develop a lottery
system for the issuance of said permits.
      (2)   Responsible party. The County Sheriffs Office will be responsible
for the issuance of any special permits and the monitoring of any special hunts
approved by the State DNR.
(2009 Code, § 803.01) (Ord. passed 5-12-2014; Ord. passed 9-26-2016) Penalty,
see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Curfew for minors
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT.  Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor.
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor.
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work.
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor.
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew.
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion.
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence.
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty has been established shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Curfew penalties.
      (1)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of this chapter may be
adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional alternatives
set forth in M.S. § 260B.198, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 132: BURNING
Section
   
132.01   Leaves
   
132.02   Open burning prohibition
§ 132.01 LEAVES.
   (A)   This section shall pertain only to the burning of leaves. It is
unlawful for any person to burn rubbish, trash or other material as prohibited
under §
132.02.
   (B)   The burning of leaves will only be permitted under the following
conditions.
      (1)   Such burning of leaves will only be permitted between September 15
and December 1.
      (2)   A responsible person shall be in constant attendance until the fire
is completely extinguished.
      (3)   Burning will only be allowed between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:
00 p.m. All fires must be extinguished by 9:00 p.m.
      (4)   A fire shall not be less than five feet from any property line.
      (5)   Burning of leaves within 25 feet of any building, lumber pile, wood
yard or hay stack is prohibited.
      (6)   The burning of leaves is prohibited on city streets, alleys,
sidewalks, boulevards, riverbanks or any public property by private citizens.
      (7)   No open burning of leaves shall take place during an air pollution
alert warning or emergency declared by the State Environmental Protection
Agency.
      (8)   The City Council may temporally discontinue burning between
September 15 and December 1 due to unsafe conditions (i.e., excessive dryness
and the like).
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 803.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Continual. Open burning prohibitions specified in this section are in
effect at all times of the year.
   (B)   Prohibited materials. No person shall conduct, cause or permit open
burning of oils, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials or other
materials which produce excessive or noxious smoke including, but not limited
to, tires, railroad ties, chemically treated lumber, composite shingles, tar
paper, insulation, composition board, sheetrock, wiring, paint or paint
filters.
   (C)   Hazardous wastes. No person shall conduct, cause or permit open
burning of hazardous waste as defined in M.S. § 116.06, Subd. 11, as it may be
amended from time to time, and applicable commissioner’s rules.
   (D)   Industrial solid waste. No person shall conduct, cause or permit open
burning of burnable material generated from an industrial or manufacturing
process of from a service or commercial structure.
   (E)   Demolition debris. No person shall conduct, cause or permit open
burning of burnable building material generated from demolition of commercial
or institutional structures. A farm building is not a commercial structure.
   (F)   Salvage operations. No person shall conduct, cause or permit salvage
operations by open burning.
   (G)   Motor vehicle. No person shall conduct, cause or permit the processing
of motor vehicles by open burning.
   (H)   Garbage. No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of
discarded material resulting from the handling, processing, storage,
preparation, servicing or consumption of food, unless specifically allowed
under M.S. § 17.135, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (I)   Burning ban. No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning
during a burning ban put into effect by a local authority, county or a state
department or agency.
   (J)   Smoldering fires. Fires must not be allowed to smolder with no flame
present, except when conducted for the purpose of managing forest prairies, or
wildlife habitats.
   (K)   Penalty. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2009 Code, § 803.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: CANNABIS IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
133.01   Purpose and intent
   
133.02   Definitions
   
133.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted by the City of Red Lake Falls for the purpose
of protecting public health and safety by regulating/prohibiting the use of
cannabis and cannabis derived products in public places and places of public
accommodation within the City of Red Lake Falls.
   (B)   Minnesota Session Law 2023, Chapter 63, effective in relevant part
August 1, 2023, establishes that the adult use, possession and personal growing
of cannabis is legal subject to the requirements and restrictions of Minnesota
Statutes.
   (C)   M.S. § 342.0263, subd. 5 authorizes the adoption of a local ordinance
establishing a petty misdemeanor offense for public use of cannabis.
   (D)   The city intends to be proactive in protecting public health and
safety by enacting a chapter that will mitigate threats presented to the public
and public health by the public use of cannabis.
   (E)   The city recognizes the risks that unintended access and use of
cannabis products and exposure to cannabis and its effects present to the
health, welfare, and safety of members of the public and in particular the
youth of the city.
(Ord. 118, passed 9-27-2023)
§ 133.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The following words, terms,
and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS FLOWER. Cannabis flower that is approved for sale by the
Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management or is substantially similar to a
product approved by the office. ADULT-USE CANNABIS FLOWER does not include
medical cannabis flower, hemp plant parts, or hemp-derived consumer products.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCTS. A cannabis product that is approved for sale by
the office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the office.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCT includes edible cannabis products but does not
include medical cannabinoid products or lower-potency hemp edibles.
   CANNABIS FLOWER. The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a cannabis
plant. CANNABIS FLOWER includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical cannabis
flower. CANNABIS FLOWER does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant parts, or
hemp-derived consumer products.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT. Any of the following:
      (1)   Cannabis concentrate;
      (2)   A product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited to
tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
flower; or
      (3)   Any other products that contains cannabis concentrate.
   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS.
      (1)   A product intended for human or animal consumption, does not
contain cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and:
         (a)   Contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or
         (b)   Contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived cannabinoids
in combination with other ingredients.
      (2)   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS does not include artificially
derived cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical
products, hemp fiber products, or hemp grain.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. Any product that:
      (1)   Is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
      (2)   Contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived cannabinoid;
in combination with food ingredients;
      (3)   Is not a drug;
      (4)   Consists of servings that contain no more than five milligrams of
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabinol, 25 milligrams of
cannabinol, or any combination of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the
identified amounts;
      (5)   Does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5 milligrams of
all other cannabinoids per serving;
      (6)   Does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
      (7)   Does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or
cannabis flower; and
      (8)   Is a type of product approved for sale by the office or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the office, including but not
limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked
goods.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk, any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, theaters, restaurants, bars, food establishments, places licensed to sell
intoxicating liquor, wine, or malt beverages, retail businesses, gyms, common
areas in buildings, public shopping areas, auditoriums, arenas, or other places
of public accommodation. PUBLIC PLACE includes private parking lots open to or
accessible for use by the general public.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, refreshment, entertainment,
recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whose goods, services,
facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations are extended, offered,
sold, or otherwise made available to the public.
   EXCEPTIONS TO PUBLIC PLACE or PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A “public
place” or “place of public accommodation” does not include the following:
      (1)   A private residence, including the individual’s curtilage or yard.
      (2)   A private property, not generally accessible by the public, unless
the individual is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products on the property by the owner of the property; or
      (3)   On the premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit on-
site consumption.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing
cannabis flower, cannabis products, artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-
derived consumer products. SMOKING includes carrying or using an activated
electronic delivery device for human consumption through inhalation of aerosol
or vapor from the product.
§ 133.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency
hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place or a place of
public accommodation unless the premises is an establishment or event licensed
to permit on-site consumption of adult-use cannabis flower and adult-use
cannabis products.
   (B)   No person shall vaporize or smoke cannabis flower, cannabis products,
artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-derived consumer products in any
location where the smoke, aerosol or vapor would be inhaled by a minor.
(Ord. 118, passed 9-27-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law, see M.S. §§ 342.09, subd. 1(2), 342.09, subd. 1(7)(b)(9),
152.0263, subd. 5.
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalty. A violation of this chapter shall be a petty
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to $300. Nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit the United States, the State of Minnesota, county, or the city from
investigating or prosecuting any other activity that is a crime under any other
federal or state statute or county ordinance.
   (B)   An alleged violation or violation of this chapter may be investigated
by a Peace Officer as defined in M.S. § 626.84, subd. 1. Any alleged violation
or violation of this chapter shall be prosecuted by the office of the Red Lake
County Attorney or other office having jurisdiction for prosecution of the
same.
(Ord. 118, passed 9-27-2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS; CODES ADOPTED
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS/PLATTING
      
152.   ADDRESS NUMBERING
      
153.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
154.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS; CODES ADOPTED
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Opting out of state Building Code
   
150.02   Procedure for vacant building registration, securing and demolition
   
150.03   Fencing permit requirements
Fire Prevention Code
   
150.20   Adoption
   
150.21   Subchapter to conform to revisions
   
150.22   Enforcement
Electric Code
   
150.35   Adoption
   
150.36   Subchapter to conform to revisions
   
150.37   Enforcement
Plumbing Code
   
150.50   Adoption
   
150.51   Subchapter to conform to revisions
   
150.52   Enforcement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Address numbering, see
Chapter 152
   Subdivisions/platting, see
Chapter 151
   Zoning regulations, see
Chapter 153
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 OPTING OUT OF STATE BUILDING CODE.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 326B.121, Subd. 2(a), the city opts
out of the requirements of M.S. Chapter 326B, which requires adoption and
enforcement of state Building Code.
(Ord. 150.1 - 150.5, passed 9-26-2022)
§ 150.02 PROCEDURE FOR VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION, SECURING AND DEMOLITION.
   (A)   Demolition procedure.
      (1)   General. Whenever it comes to the notice of the Building Official
that any building or structure is in a damaged, dilapidated or dangerous
condition, it shall be his or her duty to make an inspection of such building
or structure. It shall be unlawful to repair or alter any building or structure
located in the city if, in the opinion of the Building Official, based upon
information documented in the official file and records, such building or
structure has been damaged or deteriorated from any cause to the extent that
the Building Official’s good faith, reasonable estimate of the cost of
repairing and restoring the building is more than 60% of the current fair
market value of the building, as shown in the records of the City/County
Assessor or as adjusted by the Assessor for accuracy, and all such buildings or
structures so damaged or deteriorated shall be torn down and removed when so
ordered by the Building Official; provided, however, that the Building
Official, or the Building Appeal Board in cases appealed to it, may allow such
a damaged or deteriorated building to be repaired, for good cause shown related
to the use, location or unique characteristics of the building, when the owner
shows that the owner has dedicated sufficient funds to pay for the repair, has
entered into a valid contract to have the repair completed, and will complete
all the repair and restoration work within a reasonable time, not to exceed 12
months; repair work must have commenced within three months of the city’s order
allowing repair.
      (2)   Orders for demolition and assessment of costs. 
         (a)   All orders for the demolition of a dangerous, defective or
deteriorated building, or for repairs to the same, shall be in writing, signed
by the Building Official, and shall allow not less than 30 days in which to
comply with said order. Each order shall identify the structure, state the
legal basis of the order, the date of the order, the fair market value of the
building, the Building Official’s good faith, reasonable estimate of the cost
of repairs, the calculation that forms the basis for the opinion that the
damage requires that the building be demolished, that the owner may appeal the
order to the City Council by written appeal within ten days of the issuance of
the order, and other information deemed relevant by the Building Official. Said
appeal hearing shall be conducted pursuant to § 10.21. Should any such order
not be complied with within the time allowed therefor or, should the structure
constitute an immediate threat of bodily harm to the public, or the appeal
provided for in above not be taken, the Building Official shall, in writing,
communicate such information to the City Council. The City Council may direct
the Building Official to proceed with the work ordered, or to contract to have
the work done. In case of the demolition of a building, should the sale of the
salvage from such building exceed the cost of the demolition, the balance in
excess of the cost shall be paid to the owner of said building or to such other
persons as may by law be entitled thereto. A statement of the cost of such work
shall be transmitted to the City Council which may cause the same to be charged
against the land on which the building existed as a municipal lien, which lien
shall be recorded with the Register of Deeds or registrar of titles as a lien
against such land, or to be recovered in a suit at law against the owner, or to
cause any or all of such costs to be assessed against the property from which
such removal takes place.
         (b)   If the City Council decides to assess the cost of demolition
against the affected property, such assessment shall be made by resolution of
the Council, and such resolution shall state a time by which such assessment
shall be payable, which time shall be not less than 30 days after publication
of such resolution and service of notice of the assessment upon the property
owner. Notice of such assessment and the time within which it shall be paid,
shall be served on the owner of such property in the manner provided in
division (A)(3) below, except that it shall not be necessary to post such
notice on the affected property or to publish such notice other than to publish
in the regular manner the resolution by which such assessment is made.
Delinquent assessments shall be certified to the County Auditor of the county
for collection in the same manner as other assessments;
      (3)   Notice to owner. Except as otherwise provided for in division (A)
(2) above, service of all orders provided for in this section shall be made as
follows.
         (a)   Upon an individual owner, residing within the city, by
delivering a copy to him or her personally or by leaving a copy at his or her
usual place of abode with some person of suitable age and discretion then
residing therein. If the owner does not reside within the city, by sending a
copy of such order by certified mail to the owner’s last known address, and in
addition a copy of such order shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the
building to which it relates. Such mailing and posting shall be deemed adequate
service. If it should come to the attention of the Building Official that the
owner, as shown by the land records of the Register of Deeds or the Registrar
of Titles of the county, is deceased, such order shall be sent by certified
mail to the known heirs of the deceased owner, if the Building Official is
reasonably able to ascertain such heirs. In addition, a copy of the said order
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the building to which it relates, and
said order shall be published in the official newspaper of the city for one day
in each of two consecutive weeks during the period to which the order relates.
Such mailing, posting and publication shall be deemed adequate service;
         (b)   If the owner is confined to a state institution, by serving also
the chief executive officer of the institution;
         (c)   If the owner be a minor under the age of 18 years, by serving a
resident guardian, and if he or she has none, then by serving the person having
control of such minor or with whom he or she resides;
         (d)   If the owner be a partnership or association, by delivering the
order to a member or the managing agent of the partnership or association, if
known, or to a partner; and
         (e)   If the owner be a domestic or foreign corporation, by delivering
the order to an officer or managing agent. If such corporation be a foreign
corporation and has no such agent in the city, then service may be made upon
any such agent of the corporation within the state.
      (4)   Abandoned buildings/blight policy. Pursuant to authority provided
in M.S. § 463.26, as it may be amended from time to time, permitting cities to
enact and enforce ordinances on hazardous buildings, and in order to enhance
the livability and preserve the tax base and property values of buildings
within the city, and based upon the findings contained in division (A)(4)(a)
below; and because of the need to assure that buildings which are capable of
rehabilitation are promptly rehabilitated and buildings which are not capable
of rehabilitation be promptly demolished, the city hereby declared that it is
the policy of the city to promote rehabilitation of vacant and unoccupied
buildings, and to assure a prompt process for demolition of hazardous buildings
through a procedure fixing appropriate responsibility in accordance with due
process requirements.
         (a)   Findings. The City Council finds, determines and declares that
buildings which remain vacant and unoccupied for any appreciable period of time
become an attractive nuisance to children, a harborage for rodents, and
invitation to derelicts, vagrants and criminals as a temporary abode, and an
increased fire hazard, and that the unkempt grounds surrounding such property
invite the dumping of garbage and rubbish thereon; that such buildings are
permitted to become dilapidated since such buildings are often economically
obsolete and the owners of such buildings are unwilling to expend the necessary
funds to repair or raze the buildings; that such buildings contribute to the
growth of blight within the city, depress market values of surrounding
properties to the detriment of the various taxing districts and require
additional governmental services; that the use and maintenance of property in
such condition and manner endangers the public safety and health, constitutes
an unreasonable use and condition to the annoyance, discomfort and repose of a
considerable number of the public, is detrimental to the public good and to the
common welfare; and renders a considerable number of the public insecure in the
use and enjoyment of their property, and thus may constitute a nuisance
condition. Adequate protection of public health, safety and welfare, therefore,
requires the establishment and enforcement of the means by which such nuisance
conditions may be abated.
         (b)   Securing vacant buildings.
            1.   Generally. In general, if any building becomes vacant or
unoccupied and is deemed hazardous due to the fact that the building is open to
trespass and has not been secured and the building could be made safe by
securing the building, the Building Official may order the building secured and
shall cause notice of the order to be served upon the owner of the premises.
Such notice may be served personally or by mail. Service by mail is complete
upon mailing a copy of the order to the owner at the last known address. If the
owner fails to comply with the order within six days after the order is served,
the Building Official shall cause the building to be boarded up or otherwise
properly secured.
            2.   Emergency. When it is determined by the Building Official or
the Chief of Police, or the Fire Chief that an emergency exists with respect to
the health or safety of persons in the community, and immediate boarding and
securing of a building is required, and where danger will exist to children,
transients or others in the absence of an immediate boarding or securing of the
building, the Building Official or the Sheriff, or the Fire Chief may waive all
requirements herein and immediately board or otherwise secure the building,
provided that:
               a.   The conditions showing the existence of an exigency are
documented in writing by the Building Official or the Sheriff or the Fire Chief
or their designees;
               b.   Notice be mailed immediately by the Department invoking
this section to the address of the owner and taxpayer, and, if recorded on the
Assessor’s rolls, the address of the mortgage holder, of the date of boarding
or otherwise securing and the reasons therefor; and
               c.   Post the building according to local law with “No
Trespassing” signs.
      (5)   Securing building. An owner of a declared vacant building shall
construct entrance barriers using the following materials and methods.
Materials needed:
         (a)   One-half inch (four ply) plywood, exterior grade CDX and two
inches by four inches by eight inches construction grade lumber;
         (b)   Three-eighths inch (course thread) by 12 inches carriage bolts
(rounded head on weather side);
         (c)   Three-eighths inch (course thread) construction grade nuts;
         (d)   One-half inch (USS Standard) flat washers with an inside
diameter large enough to bypass the wrench neck inside the carriage bolt head
so no lift edge is available beneath an installed carriage bolt head;
         (e)   Three-eighths inch (USS Standard) diameter flat washers for
installation beneath the nut inside the building; and
         (f)   One and five-eights inch (6d) galvanized or stainless steel
ring-shank nails or comparable deck nails.
      (6)   Security measures.
         (a)   Openings in the basement, first floor doors and windows and any
point of entry accessible from a porch, fire escape or other potential climbing
point require additional security measures. These openings should be barricaded
with plywood, two by fours braces, carriage bolt sets and nails.
         (b)   Openings that are at least ten feet from ground level which are
not accessible from a porch, fire escape, roof or other climbing point can be
secured with nails in each brace, and every 12 inches around the perimeter. For
all openings, the plywood should be fitted so that it rests snugly against the
exterior frame, butting up to the siding on wood frame buildings and up to the
brick molding edge on brick buildings. It may be necessary to remove the staff
bead so this fit can be flush and tight. If possible, carpenters should plywood
and stub brace over the edge of the trimmer studs on each window and door
casing and meeting the header board.
      (7)   Barrier procedure.
         (a)   Applying barriers is easiest with an inside and outside
carpenter with appropriate tools and supplies. The inside carpenter will need a
light. Exit is made over a ladder when the last window is boarded.
         (b)   Cut plywood to fit over the window and door openings, flush with
outside of the molding/trimmer stud. Avoid creating or leaving a lift surface
if possible.
         (c)   Cut the two by fours to fit the horizontal dimension of the
plywood. You will need two exterior and two interior two by four braces for
each window and three sets for each door.
         (d)   Drill two three-eighths-inch holes in each brace, approximately
one-third of the length of the brace from the outside edge of the door and
window jams.
         (e)   Prior to installation stack both two by four braces on the
plywood as they will be installed and drilling through all for ease in
installation.
         (f)   The two window braces will be placed one-third of the distance
from the top and the bottom of the window.
         (g)   The three door braces will be placed: one in the center of the
doorway and one one-half the distance from the center to the top and one one-
half distance from the center to the bottom of the doorway.
         (h)   Place the plywood over the exterior opening and nail every 12
inches along the perimeter to the window/door frame.
         (i)   Place the two by four braces over the interior and exterior of
the door or window.
         (j)   Place the large washer over the carriage bolt and slide the bolt
through the holes.
         (k)   Place washer and nut inside and tighten securely. Torque the nut
so that it slightly compresses the interior two by four.
         (l)   Paint said barriers the same color as the structure to minimize
the appearance.
      (8)   Openings; trespass. After a vacant or unoccupied building has been
boarded or otherwise secured under this section, should the owner fail to
maintain the building in a secured condition until such time as it has been
repaired and reoccupied, the Building Official shall re-secure any openings
into the building whenever it again becomes open to trespass, without further
notice to the owner. An administrative fee shall be set in accordance with §
153.18 and all other costs incurred by the city for boarding or otherwise
securing a building under this chapter, including, but not limited to, the
actual costs for boarding, posting and monitoring the building, building and
housing code compliance inspections, Sheriff or Fire Department inspection,
response or protection; public health and safety investigation; control of
people or property wrongfully on the premises shall be charged to the property
owner. Unpaid charges not paid by October 10 shall be levied and collected as a
special assessment against the property and such amount may be placed on the
tax rolls and collected in the same manner as real estate taxes. The above fees
and charges, when collected, shall be dedicated to the use of the department(s)
that administer(s) the enforcement actions. OWNER, for the purposes of this
section, shall mean the person who is listed as the contact person on the
current rental licensing application on file with the city, if any; or, if
none, the person listed as owner by the city assessor on the homestead record;
or, if none, the taxpayer as shown by the records of the City/County Assessor;
      (9)   Vacant building registration. The owner of a building shall
register the building with the Building Official within 30 days after it
becomes a vacant building. In this section, a vacant building is at least one
of the following:
         (a)   Condemned;
         (b)   Unoccupied and unsecured for 30 days or more;
         (c)   Unoccupied and secured by means other than those normally used
in the design of the building for 30 days or more;
         (d)   Unoccupied and has multiple housing maintenance, fire or
building code violations existing for 30 days or more;
         (e)   Unoccupied and an existing owner or lien holder requests
registration in accordance with the provisions of this section;
         (f)   Under the provision of this subchapter, enforcement action may
proceed without regard to a period of vacancy whenever any unoccupied building
attracts criminal activity, is a health risk because of trash disposal or other
condition;
         (g)   The registration shall be submitted on forms provided by the
Building Official and shall include the following information supplied by the
owner:
            1.   A description of the premises;
            2.   The names and addresses of the owner or owners;
            3.   The names and addresses of all known lien holders and all
other parties with an ownership interest in the building; and
            4.   The period of time the building is expected to remain vacant;
and a plan and timetable for returning the building to appropriate occupancy or
for demolition of the building.
         (h)   The owner shall submit a plan and timetable that must be
approved by the Building Official, for purposes of preventing nuisance
conditions and maintaining compliance with this code. The plan shall be
submitted at the time of registration, or within a reasonable period of time
thereafter to be determined by the Building Official;
         (i)   The owner shall comply with all applicable laws and codes. The
owner shall notify the Building Official of any changes in information supplied
as part of the vacant building registration within 30 days of the change. If
the plan or timetable for the vacant building is revised in any way, the
revisions must meet the approval of the Building Official;
         (j)   The owner and the subsequent owners shall keep the building
secured and safe and the building and grounds properly maintained until the
rehabilitation or demolition has been completed;
         (k)   Failure of the owner or any subsequent owner to maintain the
building and premises that result in abatement completed by the city shall be
grounds for revocation of the approved plan and shall be subject to any
applicable penalties provided by law;
         (l)   The new owner(s) shall register or re-register the vacant
building with the Building Official within 30 days of any transfer of an
ownership interest in a vacant building. The new owner(s) shall comply with the
approved plan and timetable submitted by the previous owner until any proposed
changes are submitted and meet the approval of the Building Official;
         (m)   The Building Official shall include in the file any property-
specific written statements from community organizations, other interested
parties or citizens regarding the history, problems, status or blighting
influence of a vacant building;
         (n)   Vacant building fees:
            1.   The owner of a vacant building shall pay an annual fee, which
shall be set in accordance with §
153.18. The fee is imposed to defray the administrative costs for registering
and processing the vacant building registration form and for the costs of the
city in monitoring the vacant building site;
            2.   The first annual fee shall be paid no later than 30 days after
the building becomes vacant. Subsequent annual fees shall be due on the
anniversary date of initial vacancy. The fees shall be paid in full prior to
the issuance of any building permits, with the exception of a demolition
permit; and
            3.   Unpaid fees not paid by October 10 shall be levied and
collected as a special assessment against the property and such amount may be
placed on the tax rolls and collected in the same manner as real estate taxes.
Upon transfer of ownership, the new owner(s) shall be responsible for all
unpaid and subsequent annual fees.
         (o)   A building owner shall provide access to the Sheriff, Fire Chief
and/or Building Official of all interior portions of an unoccupied building in
order to permit a complete inspection for the purpose of enforcing and assuring
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(2009 Code, § 901.06)
§ 150.03 FENCING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Fence permits.
      (1)   The city hereby establishes control over all of the fences
presently located, to be built, enlarged or altered within the city. Any fence
installed within the city shall conform to the type, location and requirements
and specifications established by the city.
      (2)   No person shall construct, enlarge or alter any fence without first
making an application for and securing approval for a fence permit.
      (3)   Permit submittal checklist. Each resident shall submit a signed and
completed fencing permit application form which shall consist of one copy of a
Certificate of Survey, or site plan drawn to scale, which indicates the
following:
         (a)   Lot dimensions;
         (b)   Location and footprint coverage area of existing structure(s);
         (c)   Location of the fence;
         (d)   Setback of fence from the property line(s);
         (e)   The height of the fence; and
         (f)   The type of fence (i.e., chain-link, split rail, privacy).
   (B)   All lots; General fence permit requirements.
      (1)   Fences, including footings, shall be located entirely upon the
private property on which the fence is proposed to be constructed or on the
property line. Fence posts and footings must be installed below the frost line.
      (2)   The property owner is responsible for verifying property boundaries
by locating the property irons. Property irons are generally six inches below
grade and must be left exposed and staked for verification at final inspection.
The city does not provide a survey service to locate the property irons. Metal
detectors are effective in locating the property irons. It is unlawful to
disturb, remove or relocate property irons.
      (3)   If property irons cannot be located then one of the following
options are available:
         (a)   Establish the property lines by a survey conducted by a
registered land surveyor; or
         (b)   The owner of the property on which a fence is supposed to be
constructed and the owner(s) of adjoining properties enter into a written
agreement regarding the location of the property line to be recorded with the
titles of the respective properties, running with the land and binding upon any
successors or assigns, subject to approval by the city.
      (4)   Fences shall not extend into public rights-of-way or onto public
property.
      (5)   Fences in easements shall not impede the flow of water. If the city
or utility company needs to utilize the easement, the fence will be removed and
relocated at the expense of the property owner.
      (6)   The side of any fence considered to be its “face” (i.e., the
finished side having no structural supports) must face abutting property or
street right-of-way.
      (7)   Fences located in a residential district may not exceed six feet in
height. Fences located in an industrial district may not exceed eight feet in
height.
      (8)   Residential fences within front yards shall not exceed 30 inches in
height and must be setback at least ten feet from the front and/or side lot
line abutting the street right-of-way except where additional setback is
required for traffic visibility. Front yard is defined as the addressing road,
street, avenue or boulevard.
      (9)   Rear yard setback of any fence shall be at least ten feet from the
property line.
      (10)   Fences shall be made of wood, plastic or metal materials and
constructed to state code and used in a way that is safe and secure. No farm or
electrical wire or barbed wire metal fences shall be allowed.
   (C)   Buffer yard lots; Specific fence requirements.
      (1)   Fences abutting a major collector or arterial street shall be
setback at least ten feet from the property (right-of-way) line.
      (2)   For interior lots, a gate constructed of the same material as the
fence or open space shall be provided in the fence to allow for maintenance of
the street side boulevard and entry of city workers to check utilities and to
allow for public emergency services access. For non-interior lots, said access
gate may be located on an accessible side yard or rear yard.
   (D)   Corner lots; Specific fencing requirements.
      (1)   No fence shall be placed on or extend into a yard so as to pose a
danger to traffic by obscuring the view of approaching vehicular traffic or
pedestrians from any intersecting street or alleyway. Visibility from any
intersecting street or alleyway shall be unobstructed above a height of 30
inches, for a distance of ten feet from the fence corner each way, unless
further setback is required to ensure proper visibility.
      (2)   A fence more than 30 inches in height along a side lot line
abutting a public right-of- way shall not extend into a required front yard
setback and shall be no closer to the front lot line than a point intersecting
the front line of the principal building unless the fence is 30 inches or less
in height.
   (E)   General notes. Prior to digging, call Gopher Services at 651-454-0002
or dial 811 to verify public utility locations. Forty-eight hour notice is
required (excluding weekends and holidays).
(Res. 06-02-2021, passed 6-14-21)
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 150.20 ADOPTION.
   For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to
life and property from fire or explosion, that code known as the State Fire
Code, being Minn. Rules 7511, as it may be amended from time to time,
abbreviated edition, recommended by the National Board of Fire Underwriters, of
which code not less than three copies are on file in the office of City
Administrator-Treasurer of the city, and the same are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
(2009 Code, § 902.01)
§ 150.21 SUBCHAPTER TO CONFORM TO REVISIONS.
   Upon revision and amendment of the State Fire Code, being Minn. Rules 7511,
as it may be amended from time to time, abbreviated edition, this part of the
code of the city shall conform to any new amendments and revisions immediately
upon the filling of three copies of such code in the office of the City
Administrator-Treasurer of the city and the passage of a resolution by the City
Council stating that such copies are on file.
(2009 Code, § 902.02)
§ 150.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Building Inspector or Fire Marshal designated by the Council shall
enforce the provisions of this part of the code of the city. All property shall
be inspected and if found to be in violation of this part be corrected.
   (B)   Written notice stating the corrections to be made shall be served upon
the person owning the property and if such person fails or refuses to comply
with such notice, the Building Inspector, Fire Marshal or any duly appointed
inspector may remove the hazard and assess the cost thereof to the person
owning the property upon which the hazard was located.
(2009 Code, § 902.03) Penalty, see §
150.99
ELECTRIC CODE
§ 150.35 ADOPTION.
   The State Electric Code, being Minn. Rules 1315, as it may be amended from
time to time, three copies of which are on file in the office of the City
Administrator-Treasurer, is hereby adopted as the Electrical Code of the city
for the purpose of regulating construction, remodeling or altering of
electrical service systems in any building or structure within the city. Every
provision in said code is hereby adopted and made part of the code of the city
as if fully set forth herein.
(2009 Code, § 903.01)
§ 150.36 SUBCHAPTER TO CONFORM TO REVISIONS.
   Upon amendment and revision of the State Electric Code, being Minn. Rules
1315, as it may be amended from time to time, this subchapter of the code of
the city shall conform to any new amendments and revisions immediately upon the
filing of three copies of such code in the office of the City Administrator-
Treasurer and the passage of a resolution by the City Council stating that such
copies are on file.
(2009 Code, § 903.02)
§ 150.37 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement. The City Engineer or Building Inspector designated by the
Council shall enforce the provisions of §§
150.01 and
150.02. All electrical work hereafter installed shall be inspected and if found
to be in violation of this part of the code of the city shall be corrected.
   (B)   Notice and assessment. Written notice stating corrections to be made
after inspection shall be served upon the person doing the installation work,
and if such person fails or refuses to comply with such notice, the City
Engineer, Building Inspector, any duly appointed inspector, may remove the work
and assess the cost thereof to the person installing the same.
(2009 Code, § 903.03) Penalty, see §
150.99
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.50 ADOPTION.
   The State Plumbing Code, being Minn. Rules 1355, as last amended, three
copies of which are on file in the office of the City Administrator-Treasurer,
is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the city for the purpose of
regulating the installation of plumbing and plumbing fixtures in all buildings
within the city. Every provision contained in such code is hereby adopted and
made a part of this section as if fully set forth herein.
(2009 Code, § 904.01)
§ 150.51 SUBCHAPTER TO CONFORM TO REVISIONS.
   Upon revision and amendment of the State Plumbing Code, being Minn. Rules
1355, as it may be amended from time to time, this subchapter of the code of
the city shall conform to any new amendments and revisions immediately upon the
filing of three copies of such code in the office of the City Administrator-
Treasurer and the passage of a resolution by the City Council stating that such
copies are on file.
(2009 Code, § 904.02)
§ 150.52 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement. The City Engineer or Building Inspector designated by the
Council shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter of the code of the
city. All plumbing work hereafter installed shall be inspected and if found to
be in violation of the Plumbing Code, being Minn. Rules 1355, as it may be
amended from time to time, shall be corrected.
   (B)   Notice and assessment. Written notice stating the corrections to be
made shall be served upon the person doing the installation work, and if such
person fails or refuses to comply with such notice, the City Administrator-
Treasurer, Building Inspector or other duly appointed official may remove the
work and assess the cost thereof to the person installing the same.
(2009 Code, § 904.03) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §§
150.01 through
150.06 or any code adopted by reference in §§
150.01 through
150.06 shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each day or portion
thereof during which any such violation is committed, continued or permitted,
and upon conviction of any violation, such person, firm or corporation shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more
than 90 days, or by both.
(2009 Code, § 901.05)
   (C)   Any person who does not comply with the provisions of §§
150.20 or
150.21, after afforded proper notice, shall be guilty and shall be punished by
a fine not to exceed $1,000 or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 90
days.
(2009 Code, § 902.03)
   (D)   Any person who refuses or fails to comply with a correction order or
is otherwise guilty of a violation of the State Electrical Code, being Minn.
Rules 1315, as it may be amended from time to time (§§
150.35 or
150.36), upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
$1,000 or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 90 days.
(2009 Code, § 903.03)
   (E)   Any person who covers a plumbing installation before it is inspected,
or refuses or fails to comply with a correction thereof (§§
150.50 or
150.51), shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000 or by imprisonment
not exceeding 90 days.
(2009 Code, § 904.03)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS/PLATTING
Section
   
151.01   General provisions
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Preliminary plan
   
151.04   Minimum design standards
   
151.05   Minimum lot standards, street and sanitation improvements
   
151.06   Improvements
   
151.07   Variations from requirements
   
151.08   Final plat
   
151.09   Amendments
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Short title. This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision Platting
Regulations of Red Lake Falls, Minnesota.”
   (B)   Purpose. Each new subdivision becomes a permanent unit in basic
physical structure of the city, a unit to which, in the future communities will
be necessity be forced to adhere. In order that new subdivisions will
contribute toward an attractive, orderly, stable and wholesome community
environment, adequate public services and safe streets, all subdivision
hereafter platted within the city and within a two mile area shall fully comply
with the regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be the minimum requirements adopted for the protection of
the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (D)   Scope.
      (1)   This chapter shall apply and be binding upon all the area of the
city, and within the unincorporated area two miles from the city limits.
      (2)   This chapter shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of a
subdivision recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds prior to the
effective date of this chapter, except in the case of re-subdivision completed
after the effective date of this chapter. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, annul or in any way impair or interfere with existing provisions of
other laws or ordinances except those specifically repealed by, or in conflict
with, this chapter, nor shall it interfere with private restrictions placed
upon property by deed, covenant or other private agreement, or with
restrictions upon the land that are imposed or required by such existing
provisions of law, ordinance, contract or deed. In cases where any of the
foregoing are in conflict with this chapter, the provisions of this chapter
shall control.
(2009 Code, § 906.01)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way used primarily as a service access to the rear or side
of a property which abuts on a street.
   ATTORNEY. The City Attorney of Red Lake Falls, Minnesota, or his or her
authorized representative.
   BLOCK. The distance as measured along a road between intersection streets
from centerline to centerline; and where the context requires, it also means
the enclosed area within the perimeter of the streets or property lines
enclosing it.
   CITY. The City of Red Lake Falls, Minnesota.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR-TREASURER. The City Administrator-Treasurer of Red Lake
Falls, Minnesota or his or her authorized representative.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Red Lake Falls, Minnesota.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision development planned and constructed so as
to group housing units into tight patters while providing a unified network of
open space and wooded areas.
   COLLECTOR. A street that serves as a connection between a thoroughfare and
minor roads. The term may include the principal entrance of a residential
development and streets for major circulation within such a development as well
as those shown on the City Guide Plan.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Red Lake Falls, Minnesota.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A permanent street terminating at one end without connecting
with another road and designed so that it cannot be further extended without
taking property not dedicated as a street.
   FINAL PLAT. The drawing of a subdivision prepared in the manner and
containing the data, documents and information required by §
151.04.
   GROUP HOUSING. A housing project consisting of a group of five or more
buildings constructed on a plot of ground three acres or more in size.
   LOT. Any tract, including out lots, within a subdivision marked by the
subdivider as a numbered tract.
   LOT WIDTH. The dimension of a lot measured on the building setback line.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A street or service road parallel to and adjacent to
a thoroughfare which provides access from the thoroughfare to abutting
properties.
   MINOR STREET. A street of relatively short length that provides direct
access to a limited number of abutting properties.
   OFFICIAL PLAN OR CITY GUIDE PLAN. The plan or plans for the orderly growth
of Red Lake Falls adopted and amended from time to time by the Planning
Commission and the City Council.
   PERSONAL. Any individual, firm association, syndicate or partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. A drawing of a proposed subdivision prepared in the manner
and containing the data, documents and information required by §
151.03.
   PRIVATE STREET OR RESERVE STRIP. A purported street, way or strip of land
reserved for the use of a limited number of persons or purposes as
distinguished from a publicly dedicated street.
   PUBLIC WALKWAY. A public way designed for the use of pedestrian traffic.
   STREET. A public way which affords primary means of access by pedestrians
and vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, avenue,
highway, road, boulevard, lane or however otherwise designated.
   SUBDIVIDE. The owner, agent or person having control of such land as the
term is used in this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION OF LAND. The division of a tract of land into two or more lots
or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, or
if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land; provided, that
the following shall not be deemed a SUBDIVISION:
      (1)   The division of a tract of land into lots or parcels of two acres
or more with a minimum width of 165 feet;
      (2)   One division of a tract of land into two lots or parcels in any 12-
month period of time provided that the resulting descriptions are approved by
the Auditor and that said lots or parcels shall meet the minimum area and width
requirements of any zoning ordinance in effect; or
      (3)   Transfers of interest in land by will or pursuant to court order.
   SURVEYOR. The City Surveyor of Red Lake Falls, Minnesota, or his or her
authorized representative.
   THOROUGHFARE, MAJOR OR SECONDARY. Major and secondary thoroughfares are
shown on the City Plan.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. A zoning ordinance controlling the use of land as adopted
by the City Council.
(2009 Code, § 906.02)
§ 151.03 PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   Procedure for preliminary plan. 
      (1)   In order to familiarize himself or herself with this chapter and
relating laws and to avoid costly revisions of plans and plats, the subdivision
is encouraged to have a preliminary discussion with the Surveyor.
      (2)   The subdivider shall submit to the City Administrator-Treasurer:
         (a)   Three copies of the preliminary plan;
         (b)   The City Administrator-Treasurer shall, upon receipt of the
preliminary plan, refer two copies to the Planning Commission and one copy to
the Surveyor;
         (c)   If the proposed subdivision fronts upon or has access to a state
or federal truck highway, the City Administrator-Treasurer shall require an
extra copy and shall also refer one copy to the State District Highway
Headquarters for review required by state law;
         (d)   The surveyor shall within 30 days submit reports to the
Commission expressing recommendations for approval, disapproval or revisions;
         (e)   At the first regular meeting following receipt of the above
reports, the Commission shall determine whether such plan conforms to design
standards set forth in this chapter and conforms to adopted city plans;
         (f)   Approval of a preliminary plan by the Commission assures the
general acceptability of the layout. Subsequent approval will be required of
the final plat; and
         (g)   The action taken by the Commission shall be recorded in the
proceedings of the Commission and transmitted to the applicant within ten days.
   (B)   Data required for preliminary plan.
      (1)   Scale. One inch equals 100 feet or larger scale.
      (2)   Identification and description.
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision, which name shall not duplicate or
be alike in pronunciation of the name of any plat theretofore recorded in the
city;
         (b)   Location by section, town and range with a small scale sketch
showing location within the section;
         (c)   Names and address of the owner, subdivider, surveyor and
designer of the plan;
         (d)   Graphic scale;
         (e)   North point; and
         (f)   Date of preparation.
      (3)   Existing conditions in the tract and within 300 feet surrounding
the tract.
         (a)   Property lines;
         (b)   Districts proposed for nonresidential use;
         (c)   Total acreage of proposed plat;
         (d)   Platted roads, railroad right-of-way and utility easements;
         (e)   Permanent building or other structures;
         (f)   Topographic conditions of area to the platted including lakes,
watercourses, swamp areas and terrain exceeding 15% slope to adequately portray
the land form conditions, in sketch form; and
         (g)   Other reasonable information, such as soil tests and/or proposed
street profiles, if requested by the surveyor in order to make a proper review
of the site or to determine proper design.
      (4)   Subdivision design features.
         (a)   Layout of proposed streets, showing rights-of way widths and
names of streets;
         (b)   Location and widths of proposed pedestrian ways and utility
easements;
         (c)   Layout, numbers and dimensions of lots; and
         (d)   Areas, other than streets, pedestrian ways and utility
easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of such area or areas in acres.
      (5)   Stage development. Whenever a portion of a tract is proposed for
platting and is intended or of a size for future enlargements of such platted
portion from time to time, a tentative plan for the future subdivision of the
entire tract shall be submitted.
(2009 Code, § 906.03)
§ 151.04 MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Application. The following land subdivision principles, standards and
requirements will be applied by the Commission in evaluating plans for proposed
subdivisions:
      (1)   The provisions outlined herein shall be considered minimum
standards and requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare.
      (2)   Where literal compliance with the standards herein specified in
clearly impractical, the Council may modify or adjust the standards to permit
reasonable utilization of property while securing substantial conformance with
the objectives of these regulations. The procedure for a variation is stated in
§
151.07.
   (B)   Land requirements. 
      (1)   Land shall be suited to the purpose for which it is to be
subdivided. No preliminary plan shall be approved if, considering the best
interests of the public, the site is not suitable for plat and development
purposes of the kind proposed by reason of potential flooding, swamp
conditions, topography or soil limitations. Unless a plan is presented to
indicate that the land can be made suitable, lots subject to flooding, and lots
deemed uninhabitable because of topography or soils limitations shall not be
approved by the Commission for residential occupancy, nor for such other uses
as may increase danger to health, life or property or aggravate the hazard, but
such land within a plat shall be set aside for such uses as shall not be
approved by the Commission for residential occupancy, nor for such other uses
as may danger to health, life or property or aggravate the hazard, but such
land within a plat shall be set aside for such uses as shall not be endangered
by periodic or occasional inundation or shall not produce unsatisfactory living
conditions.
      (2)   Land subject to hazards to life, health or property shall not be
subdivided for residential purposes until all such hazards have been eliminated
or unless adequate safeguard against such hazards are provided by the
subdivision plan.
      (3)   Proposed subdivisions shall be coordinated with existing nearby
villages or neighborhoods so that the community as a whole may develop
harmoniously.
      (4)   Proposed land uses shall conform to any county or city zoning
ordinance in effect.
   (C)   Street system.
      (1)   Proposed streets shall be properly related to such street plans or
parts therefor have been officially prepared and adopted by the city.
      (2)   Proposed streets shall further conform to such county and state
road and highway plans as have been prepared, adopted and/or filed as
prescribed by law.
      (3)   Streets shall be logically related to the topography so as to
produce usable lots and reasonable grades. Grades shall not be in excess of 10%
for collector roads or 15% for minor roads.
      (4)   Access shall be given to all lots and portions of the tract in the
subdivision, and to adjacent unsubdivided territory unless the topography
clearly indicated that such connection is not feasible. Streets giving such
access shall be improved to the limits of the subdivision. Reserved strips, and
land locked areas shall not be created.
      (5)   Minor streets shall be laid out to discourage their use by through
traffic and thoroughfares shall be protected for use by through traffic by
marginal access roads, lots served by an interior street or other means.
      (6)   Half or partial streets will not be permitted, except where
essential reasonable subdivision of a tract in conformance with the other
requirements and standards of these regulations and where, in addition,
satisfactory assurance for dedication of the remaining part of the street can
be secured.
      (7)   Where a tract to be subdivided borders an existing half or partial
street, the other part of the street shall be plotted within such tract.
      (8)   Dead-end streets shall be prohibited, except as stubs to permit
future street extension into adjoining tracts, or when designed as cul-de-sac
streets.
      (9)   Private streets and reserve strips shall be prohibited when a
variation is submitted and approved in accordance with §
151.07.
      (10)   Cul-de-sac streets, permanently designed as such shall not exceed
800 feet in length, except as variances are permitted by the Commission. Such a
variance may be granted it if can be clearly shown that by reason of
unfavorable land form, or the irregular shape of the plat from which the
subdivision is being made, that a normal street pattern cannot be established
or that land would be wasted by not granting such a variance.
      (11)   Cul-de-sac streets shall be provided at the closed end with a turn
around having a minimum radius to the outside edge of the finished road or curb
line of not less than 50 feet.
      (12)   Unless future extension is clearly impractical or undesirable, the
turn-around right-of-way shall be placed adjacent to a property line adjacent
right-of-way of the same width as the street shall be carried to the property
line in such a way as to a criminal nature extension of the street into the
adjoining tract. At such times as such a street is extended, the overage
created by the turn around outside the boundaries of the extended street shall
revert in ownership to the property owner fronting on the temporary turn-
around.
   (D)   Cul-de-sac streets.
   (E)   Street design. 
      (1)   Minimum widths for each type of public street or road shall be as
follows:
 
Type of Street or Road                Right-of-Way Width
Alley                                 20 feet
Collector street or road              80 feet
Major thoroughfare                    200 feet
Marginal access street and cul-de-sac 50 feet
Minor street                          66 feet
Secondary thoroughfare                100 feet
 
      (2)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains and existing road or street
of inadequate width, sufficient additional width shall be provided to meet the
above standards.
      (3)   Additional right-of-way and roadway widths may be required to
promote public safety and convenience when special conditions require it or to
provide parking space in areas of intensive use.
      (4)   Short extensions of existing streets or roads with lesser right-of-
easy and/or roadway widths than prescribed above may be permitted by variance
in special cases.
   (F)   Restriction of access. When a subdivision or portion thereof adjoining
a major thoroughfare, no lot shall have direct access thereto. Said lots shall
be provided with frontage on a marginal access street or an interior street
with lot contiguous with said major thoroughfare.
   (G)   Intersections. Street centerline intersections shall be as nearly
angles as is possible, and no intersection shall be at an angle of less than 70
degrees.
   (H)   Street jobs. Street jobs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet
shall not be allowed.
   (I)   Street names. A proposed street which is in alignment with and joins
an existing and named street shall bear the name of the existing street.
   (K)   Alleys. Alleys shall be provided to the rear or side of all lots to be
used for commercial or industrial use.
   (L)   Blocks. Blocks shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   In residential areas, blocks shall not be less than 600 feet nor
more than 1,320 feet in length measured along the greatest dimension of the
enclosed block area unless minor variations are necessitated by topographic or
conformance with an adjoining plat.
      (2)   Blocks for commercial and industrial areas may vary from the
elements of design contained in this section if the nature of the use requires
other treatment. In such cases, off-street parking for employees and customers
shall be provided along with safe and convenient limited access to the street
system. Space for off-street loading shall also be provided with similar
access. Extension of streets, railroad access right-of-way, and utilities shall
be provided as necessary.
      (3)   In blocks over 800 feet in length, the Commission may require one
or more public walkways within an easement not less than ten feet in width to
extend entirely across the block and at locations deemed necessary at intervals
not closer than 400 feet.
      (4)   Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots with a
minimum depth as required by zoning except adjoining lake, stream, railroad or
thoroughfare or where one tier or lots is necessary because of topographic
conditions.
   (L)   Arrangement of lots. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right
angles to straight street lines or radial to lake or stream shores unless
topographic conditions necessitate a different arrangement.
      (1)   Each lot must front upon a public street and not be less than 50
feet in width.
      (2)   Through lots or double-frontage lots shall be avoided when
possible. Residential lots shall be separated from thoroughfares and railroad
rights-of-way by a greater lot depth amounting to 10% increase over that
required by zoning regulations or by other applicable law.
   (M)   Size of lots. No lot shall have less area or width than is required by
zoning regulations; unless provided for otherwise by zoning regulations, or by
other applicable law. To minimize the danger of the building site being
flooded, the Surveyor may require that lots abutting a drainage course,
channel, stream or lake have additional area, depth or width. Lots designed for
commercial or industrial purposes shall be adequate for off the street service,
loading and parking facilities.
   (N)   Public use and service areas. Due consideration shall be given to the
allocation of areas suitably located and of adequate size for playgrounds and
parks for local or neighborhood use as well as public service areas.
   (O)   Public open spaces. Where a proposed highway, school, historic site,
park recreation area or public access to water frontage shown on an official
city plan is located in whole or in park in the applicant’s subdivision, the
City Council shall require as a condition of final approval that such space
within the subdivision be dedicated or reserved. Such reserved land shall not
be developed for a period of one year from the date of final approval of the
plat so that within said period the appropriate public agency may acquire said
land in the manner provided by law and before it is developed for some purpose
not conforming to the official plan.
   (P)   Easements for utilities. Except where alleys are provided for the
purpose, utility easements not less than 20 feet in width across lots or
centered on rear or side lot lines shall be provided for use in erecting,
construction and maintaining poles, wires, conduits, surface drainage, water
mains, electrical lines and other public utilities. Such easements shall be
placed along rear lot lines whenever possible.
   (Q)   Drainage courses. Where storm water from adjacent areas naturally
passes through a subdivision, adequate provision shall be included in the
subdivision for facilities to route the storm water through the subdivision to
its natural outlet to maintain or replace the natural watercourse.
(2009 Code, § 906.04)
§ 151.05 MINIMUM LOT STANDARDS, STREET AND SANITATION IMPROVEMENTS.
 
              Individual Sewage      Community Sewage Community Water Supply
              Disposal               System           and Sewage Disposal
                                                      System
              20,000 sq. ft. or more
Lot area      if required as a       14,000 sq. ft.   8,000 sq. ft.
              result of soil
              percolation
Lot width     140 ft.                50 ft.           50 ft.
Street diving 6" stabilized          6" stabilized    6" stabilized
Surface width Gravel                 Gravel           Gravel
Water supply  Community or           Community or     Community or individual
              individual             individual
 
(2009 Code, § 906.05)
§ 151.06 IMPROVEMENTS.
   Before the City Council shall approve final plat of a subdivision, the
subdivider shall provide the required improvements at his or her own expense
shall give bond in an amount equal to the surveyor’s estimate, or make other
financial arrangements acceptable to the City Council to cover the cost of the
following.
   (A)   Survey monuments. A subdivision boundary corners, block and lot
corners, road intersection corners and points or tangency and curvature shall
be marked with survey monuments meeting the minimum requirements of state law.
All U.S., state, county and other official benchmarks, monuments or triangular
stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in precise position.
   (B)   Grading. Streets and lots shall be graded to secure proper drainage
and to prevent the collection of storm water in pools.
   (C)   Surface water drainage. Surface water drainage shall be provided by
storm sewers or drainage course adequate to drain surface water from the
subdivision and protect roadway surfaces.
   (D)   Minimum pavement width and roadway surfacing. Shall meet the standards
set forth by other applicable law and shall be approved after inspection by the
surveyor.
   (E)   Sanitation. When located within the service area of a public sanitary
sewerage system, sanitary sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire
subdivision in such manner as to service adequately all lots with connection to
such public system.
      (1)   Storm water drainage shall not be permitted to combine with
sanitary sewers, nor shall sanitary sewage be permitted in storm water sewers.
      (2)   Where lots cannot be connected with a public sewerage system,
provisions must be made for sanitary sewerage facilities, consisting of a
central treatment plant or individual disposal devices for each lot. This does
not mean that the subdivider must provide such devices.
      (3)   Any subdivision or lot not provided with off-site water and off-
site sewer facilities shall be subject to soil and percolation tests being made
to determine whether or not the lot size proposed will meet minimum standards
of health and sanitation. Such tests shall be made at the expense of the
subdivider.
      (4)   All proposed sewage disposal systems shall comply with the
regulations and recommended standards of the State Department of Health.
   (F)   Water supply. Water supply for all areas shall be designed to meet the
regulations and recommended standard of the State Department of Health. When
the subdivision is located within the service area of a public water supply
system, water mains not less than six inches in diameter shall be constructed
throughout the entire subdivision in such a manner as to serve adequately all
lots and tracts with connection to such public system together with shut-off
valves and fire hydrants at intervals of not less than 600 feet.
(2009 Code, § 906.06)
§ 151.07 VARIATIONS FROM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend a variation to the City Council
from the requirements of subdivision planning procedure or public improvements
when a group housing or cluster development is proposed or in specific cases
when the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size, shape or character or
is surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
compliance with the requirements of this chapter would result in substantial
hardship or injustice.
   (B)   The standards and requirements of these regulations may be modified by
the City Council in the case of plans which, in the judgments of the
Commission, achieve substantially the objectives of this chapter and which are
further protected by such covenants or other legal provisions as will assure
conformity to and achievement of the plan.
      (1)   Policy. In recommending any variation, the Commission shall take
into account the following:
         (a)   The location of the proposed subdivision, proposed land use and
existing use of land in the vicinity.
         (b)   The number of persons to reside or work in the proposed
subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity.
         (c)   Those variations that will allow the subdivider to develop his
or her property in a reasonable manner and at the same time preserve the
general intent and spirit of this chapter and to protect the public welfare and
interests of the city.
         (d)   In granting variances and modifications, the Commission may
impose such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objectives of the standards or requirements so varied and modified.
      (2)   Procedure for variation. Application for any variation shall be
submitted in writing to the subdivider at the time the preliminary plan is
filed and shall state fully the grounds for the application and the facts
relied upon by the petitioner. The Commission shall consider such application,
give its written recommendations thereon, with the reasons therefor, at the
time of its approval or disapproval of said plan. If the Commission refuses to
recommend a variation, the subdivider may at once, without preparing final
plat, petition the City Council for a review of the decision of application for
variation.
(2009 Code, § 906.07)
§ 151.08 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Procedure for final plat. After the approval and endorsement of a
preliminary plan, the following procedure shall be followed.
      (1)   Unless an extension of time is requested by the subdivider and
granted by the Commission, the subdivider shall within one year following
approval of the preliminary plan, submit to the City Administrator-Treasurer.
      (2)   Four paper prints of the final plat, together with an up-to-date
abstract of title or a certificate of title, an opinion of title by the
subdividers’ attorney and a form indicating latitude and department traverse
closure. The final plat shall be of uniform size 20 inches in width and 30
inches in length and shall conform to all state platting regulations. This
final plat shall incorporate all changes required by the Commission; otherwise,
it shall conform to the preliminary plan. The final plat may constitute only
that portion of the preliminary plan which the subdivider proposes to record
and develop at the time.
      (3)   A plat inspection fee as based on M.S. § 505.03, Subd. 3, as it may
be amended from time to time, or amendments.
      (4)   The City Administrator-Treasurer shall refer one paper print of the
final plat to the Surveyor, one to the Planning Commission, and one to the
Attorney, together with an up-to-date abstract of title or a certificate of
title and the opinion of title prepared by the subdividers’ attorney.
      (5)   A report of the Surveyor, the Planning Commission and the Attorney
shall be submitted to the City Administrator-Treasurer 30 days after the
submission of the final plat. The surveyor shall state whether the final plat
conforms to the state platting regulations and is correctly surveyed. The
Planning Commission shall state whether a final plat conforms to the
preliminary plan approved by the Commission. The Attorney shall state whether
the fee simple title to the platted property is in the names of the platters.
      (6)   The City Council shall act on the final plat within 30 days of the
date on which it was submitted to the City Administrator-Treasurer. It shall
not approve a final plat unless it:
         (a)   Conforms to a preliminary plan approved by the Commission;
         (b)   Meets the design standard and engineering specifications set
forth in this chapter;
         (c)   Conforms to all plans as adopted by the Commission and the City
Council; and
         (c)   Meets all requirements and laws of the state.
      (7)   When the final plat is approved by the City Council and certified
by the City Administrator- Treasurer, the subdivider shall submit two double
mounted, cloth backed prints on card stock or material of equal quality and two
transparent reproducible copies. The plat shall then be recorded with the
Register of Deeds.
   (B)   Data required for final plat. Data required for the final plat shall
be as required under regulations of state laws.
(2009 Code, § 906.08)
§ 151.09 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments may be made to this chapter by the City Council after
recommendation of the Commission following the holding of a public hearing with
notice given in the official newspaper of the city at least ten days in advance
of the hearing.
(2009 Code, § 906.11)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day following notification by the City
Administrator-Treasurer that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense and may be punishable as such.
(2009 Code, § 906.10)
CHAPTER 152: ADDRESS NUMBERING
Section
   
152.01   System to number and renumber streets and houses
§ 152.01 SYSTEM TO NUMBER AND RENUMBER STREETS AND HOUSES.
   (A)   Numbering of streets. There is hereby created a system of numbering
and renumbering the streets of the city. The number system is as follows.
      (1)   Main streets.
         (a)   The present Main Avenue from the southerly city limits to the
Clearwater River shall be hereafter known as Main Avenue. That part lying south
of First Street, as hereinafter designated, shall be knows as Main Avenue South
and that part lying north of First Street, as hereinafter designated, shall be
known as Main Avenue North.
         (b)   The present First Street running from the westerly city limits
to the Clearwater River and Abraham Street running from the Clearwater River to
the easterly city limits shall hereafter be known as First Street. First Street
East and that part lying west of Main Avenue shall be known as First Street
West.
         (c)   The street heretofore known as Clearwater Avenue beginning north
of the center of Section 22, proceeding northwesterly through the park until
said street connects with the present Bridge Street, thence in a southeasterly
direction across the Clearwater Bridge, thence following the present Truck
Highway 32 eastward to the easterly city limits, shall hereafter be known as
Bridge Street.
      (2)   Main avenues.
         (a)   The present Hennepin Avenue beginning at the Great Northern
Railway tracks running north four blocks to Truck Highway 32, the present Dow
Avenue beginning at Truck Highway 32 and running northerly two blocks and the
present Burrows Avenue beginning at Clearwater River and running northerly to
the Great Northern Railway tracks shall hereafter be designated as Dow Avenue.
         (b)   The present Buse Avenue and the present Sibley Avenue shall
hereafter be designated Buse Avenue.
         (c)   The present Kretzschmar’s Avenue and the present Marshall Avenue
shall hereafter be designated as Marshall Avenue.
         (d)   The present Noah Avenue and the present Hamilton Avenue shall
hereafter be designated as Hamilton Avenue.
         (e)   The present Kittson Avenue and the present McLean Avenue shall
hereafter be designated as McLean Avenue.
      (3)   Other streets.
         (a)   Those streets lying north of First Street shall be designated as
follows.
            1.   The present Second Street North commencing at the westerly
city limits, thence running eastward at a distance of one block, the present
Langevin Avenue terminating at the Great Northern Railroad the present Hill
Street beginning at the Great Northern Railroad and running easterly one block,
and the present Tenth Street lying east of the Clearwater River shall hereafter
be designated as Second Street North.
            2.   The present Third Street commencing at the westerly edge of
the city limits and thence proceeding eastward a distance of one block and the
present Ninth Street running easterly from the Clearwater River to the easterly
city limits shall hereafter be designated as Third Street North.
            3.   The present Fourth Street North commencing at the westerly
city limits and proceeding easterly one block and from the Trunk Highway 32
easterly to the city limits shall hereafter be designated as Fourth Street
North.
            4.   The present Fifth Street North commencing at the westerly city
limits and proceeding easterly one block and the present Seventh Street lying
east of the Clearwater River shall hereafter be designated Fifth Street North.
            5.   The present Sixth Street North commencing at the westerly city
limits and proceeding easterly one block and the present Sixth Street lying
east of the Clearwater River shall hereafter be designated Sixth Street North.
            6.   The present Seventh Street North commencing at the Fifth
Street beginning in the platted portion west of the Great Northern Railway and
running easterly to the present River Drive shall hereafter be designated as
Seventh Street North.
            7.   The present Eighth Street commencing at the westerly city
limits running easterly to the present Great Northern Railroad tracks to the
Red Lake River shall hereafter be designated as Eighth Street North.
            8.   The present Ninth Street commencing at the westerly city
limits to the Clearwater River and beginning at the Clearwater River running
easterly to the Red Lake River and the present Third Street running from the
westerly edge of Blocks 27 and 28 of Kretzschmar’s Addition easterly to the Red
Lake River shall hereafter be designated as Ninth Street North.
            9.   The present Tenth Street running from the Clearwater River to
the Red Lake River and the present Second Street running from the westerly side
of Blocks 10 and 27 of Kretzschmar’s Addition easterly to the Red Lake River
shall hereafter be designated as Tenth Street North.
            10.   The present Tenth Street running from the Clearwater River to
the Red Lake River and the present Second Street running from the westerly side
of Blocks 10 and 27 of Kretzschmar’s Addition easterly to the Red Lake River
shall hereafter be designated as Tenth Street North.
            11.   All streets named above, and those streets lying within the
area but not named, shall use the designation north at Main Avenue and Great
Northern Railway, and those portions lying east of Main Avenue or east of the
Great Northern Railway after the termination of Main Avenue shall be known as
northeast and those portions lying west thereof shall be known as northwest.
         (b)   Those streets lying south of First Street shall hereafter be
designated as follows.
            1.   The present Second Street shall hereafter be designated as
Second Street South.
            2.   The present Third Street shall hereafter be designated as
Third Street South.
            3.   The present Fourth Street shall hereafter be designated as
Fourth Street South.
            4.   The present Fifth Street shall hereafter be designated as
Fifth Street South.
            5.   The present Sixth Street shall hereafter be designated as
Sixth Street South.
            6.   The present Seventh Street shall hereafter be designated as
Seventh Street South.
            7.   The present Hamilton Street shall hereafter be designated as
Eighth Street South.
            8.   The present Holmes Street shall hereafter be designated as
Ninth Street South.
            9.   The present Harrison Street shall hereafter be designated as
Tenth Street South.
            10.    The present Howard Street shall hereafter be designated as
Eleventh Street South.
            11.   The present Eighth Street shall hereafter be designated as
Twelfth Street South.
            12.   The present Ninth Street shall hereafter be designated as
Thirteenth Street South.
            13.   The present Tenth Street shall hereafter be designated as
Fourteenth Street South.
            14.   The present Eleventh Street shall hereafter be designated as
Fifteenth Street South.
            15.   The above designated streets, and streets lying within the
area but not named, shall use the designation south at Main Avenue. West of
Main Avenue they shall be known as southwest and east of Main Avenue they shall
be known as southeast.
         (c)   All streets and avenues not changed, as provided above, shall
have the same name as now platted.
         (d)   All avenue lying east of Main Avenue or east of the Great
Northern Railway after termination of Main Avenue shall be designated as east
at First Street. Those portions lying North of First Street shall be known as
northeast and those portions lying south of First Street shall be known as
southeast. Those avenues lying west of Main Avenue shall be designated as west
of Main Avenue shall be designated West of Main Avenue shall be designated west
of First Street and the portions thereof lying south of First Street shall be
known as southwest and those portions lying north of First Street shall be
known as northwest.
   (B)   New plat. A new plat reflecting the designations of streets and
avenues, as outlined in division (A) above, shall be drawn up.
   (C)   Numbering of houses. There shall be established a system of numbering
the houses in the city. A uniform numbering system shall be utilized as
follows.
      (1)   All streets shall commence at Main Avenue for numbering, both east
and west. The beginning numbers shall have three digits and the first block
adjacent to First Street shall begin with digits in the 100s, the second block
with digits in the 200s, and the sequence shall continue in each of the blocks.
      (2)   All avenues shall commence at First Street for numbering, both
north and south. The beginning numbers shall have three digits and the first
block adjacent to First Street shall begin with digits in the 100s, the second
block with digits in the 200s, and the sequence shall continue in each of the
blocks.
(2009 Code, § 907.01)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Zoning districts and general provisions
   
153.03   Accessory buildings and structures
   
153.04   Existing nonconformities
   
153.05   Nonconforming structures
   
153.06   Opting out of state statute requirements
   
153.07   Group housing project
   
153.08   Off-street loading and parking
   
153.09   Off-street automobile storage
   
153.10   Off-street parking areas for more than five vehicles
   
153.11   Removal of nonconforming signs and nonconforming land use
   
153.12   Outdoor advertising
   
153.13   List of permissible and conditional uses
   
153.14   Conditional uses
   
153.15   Satellite dishes
   
153.16   Administration
   
153.17   Amendments
   
153.18   Schedule of fees
   
153.19   Zoning district schedule
   
153.20   Solar energy systems
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or structure.
   ATTORNEY. The attorney of the City of Red Lake Falls, or his or her
authorized representative.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board of Adjustment as authorized by the City
Council.
   CLUSTER SUBDIVISION. A change from the conventional pattern of subdivision
development which groups housing units into relatively right units while
providing a unified network of open space.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout the zoning district but which, if controlled as to
number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would not be injurious
to the public health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience,
appearance, prosperity or general welfare. Such uses may be permitted in listed
zoning districts upon appeal, if CONDITIONAL USE permits are granted by the
Board of Adjustment, CONDITIONAL USES, when granted, shall be considered as
permitted uses and not as variances.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A residence designed for or occupied by three or
more families, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residence designed for or occupied by
one family only.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A residence designed for or occupied by two families
only, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single housekeeping unit and using
common cooking facilities.
   HOME OCCUPATIONS. A use of nonresidential nature conducted entirely within
the dwelling or accessory building and carried on only by inhabitants thereof,
which use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for
residential purposes. No article may be said or offered for sale except as may
be produced on the premises by members of the immediate family residing
therein. Only one unlighted sign not exceeding one square foot in area may be
displayed.
      (1)   HOME OCCUPATION shall be limited to catering service, dressmaking,
carpenter and cabinet making shop, home bakery, furniture repairing upholstery
shop, real estate office, individual doctor’s consultation office and other
restricted business, service or profession which, in the opinion of the Board
of Adjustment are of the same general character as the uses enumerated and
designed so as not to change the character of the immediate neighborhood.
      (2)   The following shall not be deemed to be HOME OCCUPATIONS: animal
hospital; automobile repair garage; clinic; kennel; among others.
   JUNK OR SALVAGE YARD. Any place where two or more motor vehicles not
containing current license plates are stored in the open; and including the
commercial salvaging and scavenging of any other goods, articles or merchandise
not contained entirely within enclosed buildings.
   LOT. For zoning purposes, as covered by this chapter, a LOT is a parcel of
land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use,
coverage and area to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein
required. Such LOT shall have frontage on an improved public street provided
that in no case of subdivision shall any lot or parcel be created which does
not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street or a body of water if the lot has water frontage. For the
purpose of determining yard requirements on corner lots and through lots
(through lots are lots running from street to street), all portions of a lot
adjacent to streets shall be considered FRONTAGE, and yards shall be provided
as indicated under yards in this chapter.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between the side lot lines measured on the building
front yard setback line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the City Administrator-Treasurer, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
   MAY. Indicates permissive.
   MOBILE HOME. A single-family dwelling unit suitable for year-round occupancy
placed on a foundation so as to be substantially affixed to the site and
connected to a water supply, waste disposal system and electrical supply
similar to immobile housing. Individual MOBILE HOMES residing in a mobile park
at the time of the passage of this chapter or MOBILE HOMES seeking to establish
in a mobile home park in the future, shall not be required to obtain a zoning
or conditional use permit.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land which has been planned and improved for
the placement of two or more mobile homes and licensed by the state. A
conditional use permit shall be required for the establishment of a MOBILE HOME
PARK.
   OCCUPIED. Includes the words intended, designed or arranged to be used or
occupied.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An off-street parking space shall comprise not
less than 180 square feet of parking stall plus necessary maneuvering space.
Space for maneuvering incidental to parking or exiting shall not encroach upon
any public way. Every OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE shall be assessable from a
public way.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Red Lake Falls.
   SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA. An outside parabolic antenna used or useful for the
reception of communication signals transmitted by satellite.
   SHALL. To be construed as mandatory.
   SIGN. Any device to inform or attract the attention of persons not on the
premises on which the sign is located; provided, however, that the following
shall not be included in the application of the regulations herein:
      (1)   Signs not exceeding four square feet in area and bearing only
property numbers, post box numbers, names of occupants or premises or other
identifications of premises not having commercial connotations;
      (2)   Flags and insignia of any government except when displayed in
connection with commercial promotion;
      (3)   Legal notices; identification, information or directional signs
erected or required by governmental bodies;
      (4)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, except
letters, trademarks, moving parts or moving lights;
      (5)   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private
property, but bearing no advertising matter;
      (6)   A temporary sign indicating real estate for rent or for sale
related to the premises only on which it is located; and
      (7)   Political posters in accordance with applicable state laws or
posters for other short term promotions which shall follow the same laws as
political posters, provided that they are removed within ten days following the
election for which they were intended.
   SIGN, ON-SITE. An outdoor advertising device relating in its subject matter
to the premises on which it is located, or to products, accommodations services
or activities on the premises.
   SIGN, OFF-SITE. An outdoor advertising device other than an on-site sign.
   SIGNS, NUMBER AND SURFACE AREA. For the purpose of determining number of
signs, a sign shall be considered to be a single display surface or display
device containing elements organized, related and composed to a form a unit.
Where matter is displayed in a random manner without organized relationship of
elements, or where this is reasonable doubt about the relationship of elements,
each element shall be considered to be a single sign.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences,
billboards and poster panels.
   SURFACE AREA. The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the
entire area within a regular geometric form or combinations of regular
geometric forms comprising all of the display area of the sign and including
all of the elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural members not
bearing advertising matter shall not be included in computation of SURFACE
AREA.
   USED. Has the same meaning as the word “occupied” as defined herein.
   VARIANCE. An appeal for the relief from certain requirements of the zoning
ordinance as deemed necessary by the Board of Adjustment when the strict
interpretation of the ordinance would create undue hardship because of
irregular lot size, topographic or other characteristics of the land. No
VARIANCE shall have the effect of allowing in any district uses prohibited in
that district.
   YARD. A required open space unoccupied and unobstructed by any structure or
portion of a structure from 30 inches above the general ground level of the
graded lot upward; provided, however, that fences, signs, utility poles, lawn
lights, antennas and related minor equipment and trees or shrubs may be
permitted in any yard provided that they do not create a traffic safety hazard.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending between side lot lines across the front of a
lot at the side nearest the street or a body of water. In any required FRONT
YARD, no fence, or wall shall be permitted which materially impedes vision
across such yard above the height of 30 inches, and no hedge or other
vegetation on corner lots shall be permitted which materially impedes vision
across the yard.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of the lot between inner side
yard lines.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the rear line of the required front yard
to the rear lot line.
(2009 Code, § 905.01)
§ 153.02 ZONING DISTRICTS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Zoning districts. The city is hereby divided into zoning districts as
shown on the official zoning district map dated December 16, 1969 and any
amendments thereto, and filed in the office of the City Administrator-
Treasurer. The map and all explanatory matter thereon are hereby made a part of
this chapter. Any area added to the city through annexation shall be divided
into zoning districts at the time of annexation.
      (1)   A Multi-Family Residential (R-2) Zoning District shall be defined
as two or more family units per structure.
      (2)   A Multi-Family Residential (R-2) Zoning District is hereby
incorporated within the zoning definitions in the official Zoning District map
dated December 16, 1969 and filed in the office of the City Administrator-
Treasurer of the city, a Multi-Family Residential (R-2) classification together
with basic provisions, minimum requirements and maximum limitations shall also
be added to and become a part of Title XV-- Zoning District Schedule, on file
in the Office of the City Administrator-Treasurer and is available for public
copying and inspection during normal business hours.
      (3)   Lot size requirements in the Multi-Family Residential (R-2)
District are established as follows:
         (a)   Minimum lot area: multi-family: 3,000 square feet per family but
less than 6,000 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width: multi-family dwelling uses: 75 feet.
         (c)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet.
         (d)   Maximum structure height: 75 feet.
         (e)   Yard requirements:
            1.   Front yard: 30 feet.
            2.   Minimum side yard: 20 feet.
            3.   There shall be an additional side yard setback of one foot for
each two feet of height over 40 feet.
            4.   Minimum rear yard: 25 feet.
         (f)   Maximum lot coverage: 40%.
   (B)   Compliance. No building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter
be erected, constructed, reconstructed, move, conformity with all of the
regulations herein specified in Title XV--the Zoning District Schedule, a copy
of which is available for copying and inspection during normal business hours,
for the district in which it is located.
   (C)   General provisions. In each zone district each structure hereafter
erected or altered shall be provided with the yards and setbacks specified,
shall be on a lot of the area and width specified and shall not exceed the
percent of maximum total building coverage of its lot as specified in Title XV-
-the Zoning District Schedule. No open space, lot off-street parking or loading
space required for a building or structure shall be included as part of a lot,
open space, off-street parking or loading space for another building structure
unless the joint space meets all requirements of all buildings or structures
for which it serves.
   (D)   Satellite dish antenna. No satellite dish antenna or portion thereof
shall be constructed:
      (1)   In any front yard or within that portion of any side yard which is
forward on the front line extended of any existing building upon the lot or
parcel involved;
      (2)   Within the side yard or real yard setback requirements for
accessory structures:
      (3)   Upon the roof of any residential dwelling for four or fewer
families, private garage or other structure accessory to such residential
dwelling; or
      (4)   To exceed the height of 35 feet or the top of the principal
structure on the lot upon which it is located, whichever is less. Wiring
between the satellite dish antenna and a receiver shall be placed at least
eight inches beneath the surface of the ground. Satellite dish antennas shall
be bonded to a grounding rod and shall be designed to withstand a wind force as
required by the Building Code, being Minnesota Rules, part 1300, as it may be
amended from time to time. Satellite dish antennas which are mounted on the
roof of a building or structure must be approved by registered engineer or
architect.
   (E)   No residential dwelling shall be constructed that is less than 20 feet
wide, or less than 20 or a total square footage of less than 800 square feet.
Any building less than dimensions specified shall require a variance.
(2009 Code, § 905.02)
§ 153.03 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   In Residential Zoning Districts R-1 and R-2:
   (A)   Accessory buildings may be constructed within five feet of the side
and rear lot lines, excluding garages which must be 16 feet if the building
door opens on the rear lot line side. No portion of the structure shall extend
or overhang within five feet of a lot line;
   (B)   Accessory buildings may not exceed 1,500 square feet with ten feet
sidewalls and the overall height must not exceed 19 feet. No accessory building
shall exceed the height of the principal building;
   (C)   Accessory buildings shall not occupy more than 25% of the rear yard,
and the maximum total building coverage on a lot may not be more than 35% in
residential (R-1) Zoning District and 40% in residential (R-2) Zoning District
(§
153.02 and in Title XV--the Zoning District Schedule, a copy of which is
available for copying and inspection during normal business hours). The maximum
allowable area of all accessory buildings combined is 1,750 square feet. The
maximum number of detached accessory buildings will be two;
   (D)   Accessory buildings shall not be located in front of the principal
building; and
   (E)   Accessory and pole buildings may be permitted only if siding, roofing,
building materials and overhang are similar to the principal structure. Brick,
stucco and stone dwellings justify an exemption for required matched building
exteriors. Alternate materials shall only be allowed in such cases by approval
of the Zoning Administrator. Corrugated metal exterior finishes are prohibited
for accessory buildings.
(2009 Code, § 905.02)
§ 153.04 EXISTING NONCONFORMITIES.
   Any use of a structure and/or premises existing at the time of enactment or
subsequent amendment of this chapter, but not in conformity with its
provisions, may be continued, provided that:
   (A)   The use is not changed to another nonconforming use or re-established
if discontinued for a 90-day period; and
   (B)   No existing structure devoted to a nonconforming use shall be enlarged
or extended, constructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing the
use of the structure to a use consistent with the provisions of this part of
the code of the city.
(2009 Code, § 905.03)
§ 153.05 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Any structure existing at the date of adoption or amendment of this chapter
which does not comply with the provisions of this chapter by reason of
restrictions on area, lot coverage, yards or other characteristic of the
structure of lot may be continued provided that such structures may:
   (A)   Not be enlarged or altered in a way which increases its nonconformity;
   (B)   Not be rebuilt, except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, after damage to an extent of more than 50% of its replacement value at
the time of damage;
   (C)   Not be moved in any way unless it shall thereafter be conform to the
provisions of this chapter; and
   (D)   Have normal repairs and maintenance necessary to keep the structure in
sound condition.
(2009 Code, § 905.03)
§ 153.06 OPTING OUT OF THE STATE STATUTE REQUIREMENTS.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subd. 9, as it may be
amended from time to time, the city opts-out of the requirements of M.S. §
462.3593, as it may be amended from time to time, which defines and regulates
temporary family healthcare dwellings.
(2009 Code, § 905.03)
§ 153.07 GROUP HOUSING PROJECT.
   In the case of a housing project consisting of a group of five or more
dwelling units to be constructed on a plot of ground of at least three acres
not subdivided into the customary streets and lots which will not be so
subdivided or where the existing or contemplated street and lot layout make it
impractical to apply the requirements of this chapter to the individual
buildings in such housing projects, the application of such requirements to
such housing project shall be made by the Board of Adjustment in a manner that
will be in harmony with the character of the neighborhood, will ensure a
density of land use no higher and a standard of open space at least as high as
required by this chapter in the district in which the proposed project is to be
located.
(2009 Code, § 905.04)
§ 153.08 OFF-STREET LOADING AND PARKING.
   Space for off the street loading of vehicles shall be provided for every
building used or designed for commercial purposes in an amount considered
adequate by the zoning officer for the proposed use.
(2009 Code, § 905.05)
§ 153.09 OFF-STREET AUTOMOBILE STORAGE.
   (A)   Off-street automobile storage or standing space shall be provided on
every lot on which any new structures are hereafter established; such space
shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley and shall be
deemed to be required open space associated with the permitted use and shall
not thereafter by reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
   (B)   (1)   Dwelling: one parking space for each unit.
      (2)   Tourist accommodations: one parking space for each room unit.
      (3)   Theater, stadium, auditorium, church or other places of public
assembly: one parking space for each ten seats, based on maximum seating
capacity.
      (4)   Store and other retail business establishments: one parking space
for each 400 square feet of total retail floor area.
      (5)   Office building: one parking space for each 200 square feet of
office floor area.
      (6)   Industrial, manufacturing or wholesale establishments: one parking
space for each five workers, based on peak employment and adequate space for
loading and unloading all vehicles used incidental to the operation of the
industrial or manufacturing establishment.
   (C)   None of these regulations, however, shall apply to the present C-
1 areas indicated on the atlas and described as follows: blocks two and three,
seven and eight, nine and ten, Champagne and Dow’s Additions, and that part of
block three of original town site within the boundaries of C-1, and the east
half of block 51 west half of block 52 of Kretzschmar’s Addition.
   (D)   Where such space cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot with
the principal use, the Board of Adjustment may permit such space to be located
on another off-street property provided such space is within 500 feet of the
permitted use measured along lines of public access.
(2009 Code, § 905.05.01)
§ 153.10 OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS FOR MORE THAN FIVE VEHICLES.
   Off-street parking areas, whether public or private, for more than five
vehicles shall be effectively screened by a fenced, wall or plant material if
visible from a residential or public zoning district.
(2009 Code, § 905.05.02)
§ 153.11 REMOVAL OF NONCONFORMING SIGNS AND NONCONFORMING LAND USE.
   All nonconforming signs of all types not exempted by the definition thereof
and all nonconforming open land uses (not under a roof) such as open storage
yards, junk yards accumulations of debris, stockyards and the like, shall be
removed and made to conform to the adoption of this chapter within a period of
two years after the adoption of this chapter and the mailing of a notice
instructing such removal by the Zoning Officer.
(2009 Code, § 905.06)
§ 153.12 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING.
   (A)   Outdoor advertising. Only official identification, directional or
traffic control signs shall be allowed within the public right-of-way.
   (B)   On-site. On-site at industrial, commercial or service establishments
shall be limited to three display units per 25 linear feet of total road
frontage. Total area of all units combined shall not exceed 50 square feet for
each goods or services for sale or produced on the property.
   (C)   Off-site conditional uses. Off-site advertising signs shall be
permitted uses in C-1, C-2 and M Zone Districts as conditional uses. Off-site
advertising signs shall also be permitted at tourist service areas and visitor
information centers designed for the purpose of informing the motoring public
of services available within the nearby area.
   (D)   Off-site advertising structures. Off-site advertising structures shall
not be erected which exceed 350 square feet in advertising area. The maximum
size limitation stated- herein shall apply to each facing of an off-site
advertising sign. Two outdoor facing (end to end).
   (E)   Changes. The change in advertising message maintenance and repair, or
the use of extensions, cut-outs or embellishments upon an existing advertising
structure shall not be considered an enlargement, extension structure or
structural alteration provided that thereby the advertising structure is not
caused is not caused to exceed any size limitation imposed by this chapter.
   (F)   Placement. Off-site advertising signs shall not obscure safe sight
distances or conflict with official signs or safety devices.
   (G)   Lighting. Off-site advertising signs shall not be erected which
contain, include or are illuminated by any flashing light or lights, except
those giving public service information, such as time and temperature. Lighted
signs shall be shielded so as to prevent beams or rags of light from being
directed at any portion of the traveled way of any street or highway and shall
not be of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare or impair the vision
of the operator of any motor vehicle or obscure any official traffic sign,
device or signal.
(2009 Code, § 905.07)
§ 153.13 LIST OF PERMISSIBLE AND CONDITIONAL USES.
   On the following table, an open circle (0) means that the use is permitted
in that district only if a conditional use permit is granted by the Board of
Adjustment. An “X” means that the use is permitted in the zone district subject
to the general provisions of the zoning ordinance. For uses not included on
this list, application shall be made to the Board of Adjustment for
interpretation.
 R C-1 C-2 M P O
                                                    R C-1 C-2 M P O
Acoustical material, mfg., storage                            X
Acoustical material, sales                            X   X   X
Advertising display mfg.                                      X
Agriculture farmland                                0         X   X
Agricultural implements service and sales             0   X   X   0
Animal hospital, veterinarian                         0   0
Antique sales                                         X   X
Apartment                                           0 0   0
Armory                                                    0   X X 0
Asphalt and asphalt products processing storage               0
Association (club and lodges, private)                X   X
Athletic fields                                                 X X
Auditorium, assembly hall                             0         X 0
Automobile and truck sales, parts, repairs            0   X   X
Automobile and truck salvage and scrap yard                   0
Bake sales                                          0 X   X
Baked goods, mfg., sales (small scale)                X   X
Baked goods, mfg., sales (large scale)                0   0   X
Bank trust co., bonding co.                               X   X
Bar, tavern, saloon                                   X   X
Barber                                                X   X
Beauty shop                                           X   X
Beverages                                                 0   X
Bicycle                                               0   X   X
Billiard parlor                                       X   X
Boat marina, sales, storage                           X   X   X
Body shop, automotive                                     0   X
Bottled gas, storage and distribution                         0
Bowling alley                                         X   X
Broadcasting station, transmitting equip-tower      0     0   X 0 X
Broadcasting studio                                   X   X   X 0 X
Building materials, storage, sales                    0   0   X
Café, restaurant, supper club                        X   X
Carpentry and cabinet shop                            0   0   X
Carpet and rug sales, storage, cleaning             X 0   X
Cement and concrete project, mfg., sales, storage             0
Cemetery                                                        X X
Cesspool-septic tank, builders, service, sales                X
Child care center, play school                      0           0
Church, synagogue                                   0 X   X
Clay products, mfg., storage                                  0
Clinic, hospital                                    0 0   0     X
Clothing store, general, specially                    X   X
Coal and coal storage yards                                   0
Coin machines, rental, service                        X   X   X
Cold storage, locker plant                            0   0   X
Community center                                    0 0   0     X
Contractor (general) equip. and storage yard                  X   X
Credit Union loan company                             X   X
Dairy products, mfg., sales, distribution             0   0   X   0
Dance hall                                            0   0     0
Department store                                      X   X
Disposal plant, sewage                                        0 0 X
Dog pound                                                     0   0
Drive-in restaurant                                   0   X
Driving range, miniature golf, go-karting                 0       0
Dry cleaning and laundry, pick up only                X   X   X
Dry cleaning and laundry, self-service                X   X
Dump, ash, garbage, offal and the like                        0   0
Dwelling, single-family                             X             0
Dwelling, two-family                                X             0
Dwelling, multiple family                           0 0   0
Egg processing, distribution                                  X   X
Electrical appliances, equip., sales                  X   X   X
Electric light and power company yards                        X   0
Explosive, storage, distribution                              0
Farm implement dealer, distribution, repair, sales    0   X   X
Feed-fertilizer (natural, processed) sales, storage           X
Filling stations, gasoline                            0   X   X
Fire station                                        0 X   X   X X 0
Fish or meat, wholesale, curing, storage                  0   X
Florist, greenhouse, nursery                              X   0   X
Florist, sales                                        X   X   0   0
Food products, sales                                  X   X   X
Food products, warehouses                                 0   X
Freight depot, office, wholesale                          0   X
Fuel storage, distribution                                    0   0
Funeral parlor, mortuary                            0 X   X
Furniture store                                       X   X
Furs, mfg., assembly                                          0
Furs, sales                                           X   X   0
Frozen food lockers                                       0   X
Garage, equipment, sales                              0   X   X
Garment, clothing mfg., sales                                 X
Gas, appliances, sales                                X   X
Gasoline, or filling station                          0   X   X
Gift shops                                            X   X
Gravel pit                                                      0 X
Grocery store, retail                               0 X   X
Grocery store, wholesale, warehousing                     0   X
Halls, assembly                                       0   0     X
Hard wares, sales, repair                             X   X   X
Home, old age, children, nursing                    0
Hospitals                                           0 0   0     X
Hotel                                                 X   X
Housing, public project                             0
Ice, mfg., sales                                          0   X
Ice skating rink                                    0           X X
Insulation materials, storage                                 X
Iron or woodworking                                       0   X
Jail                                                  X         X
Jeweler, sales, mfg.                                  X   X
Junk or salvage yard                                          0
Key and lock shop                                     X   X
Kennel                                                    0   0
Laboratories                                          X   X   X
Laundries, self service                             0 X   X
Library                                             0 X   X     X
Lighting and power plants                                       X 0
Liquor, off-sale storage                              X   X
Lockers, food storage                                 0   0   X
Lodging house                                       0     X
Lumber yard, storage, sales                               0   X
Machine shop                                              0   X
Meat and fish sales                                   X   X   X
Meat packers                                                  0
Metal fabrication, processing                       0 0   X
Mobile home mfg. and sales                          0     0   X
Mobile home and mobile home parks                   0           X
Monuments, sales, display                             X   X
Motel                                                 X   X
Motion picture theater, non drive-in                  X   X
Museum                                              0 X   X     X
Nursing home                                        0
Paper and wood products mfg., storage                         X
Parish house                                        X
Park, playground                                    X X   X   X X X
Parking lot                                         0 X   X   X X X
Paving materials, storage                                       0
Pharmacy                                              X   X
Plumbing fixtures and supplies, sales shops           X   0   X
Police station                                        X         X
Post office                                           X         X
Poultry, products processing                                  0   0
Printing service, lithograph, photo engraving         X   0   X
Professional office, doctors, lawyers and the like
Public housing                                      X           X
Public or private school                            0 X   X     X
Public building                                     0 X   X     X
Public campground                                               X X
Public utilities and storage area                   0 0   0   X X
Railroad, service and repair                                  X
Rendering plant
Restaurants, cafés                                   X   X
Retail store, general, specialty                      X   X
Roadside park or wayside                            X X   X   X X X
Roadside sales stand                                0     X       0
Rooming house                                       0 0   0
Salvage yards, storage, sales                                 0
Satellite dish antennas
Sauna, steam bath, commercial                         X   X
Schools, commercial                                   X   X
Schools, public or parochial                        X           X
Signs, off-site                                       0   0   0
Signs, on-site                                        X   X   X
Silo, mfg., sales
Skating rink, ice                                   0           X X
Sporting goods, sales                                 X   X
Sporting goods, mfg.                                      0   X
Storage warehouse                                             X
Storage yard, bulk material, equipment                        X   0
Trailer (travel)                                    0 X   X
Taxidermist                                         0 X   X   X
Theaters, in-door                                     X   X
Theaters, outdoor drive-in                                0       0
Tire repairing, equipment and supplies                0   0   X
Tourist court, rooms                                0 X   X
Trailers, sales                                     0 X   X   X
Trailer (mobile home) park                          0           X
Utility structure, substation                         0   0   X
Warehouse, all types                                  0   0   X
Water tank, reservoir                               0 0   0   X X 0
Welding shop, service equipment, storage              0   0   X
Wood, storage, sales                                          X
 
(2009 Code, § 905.08)
§ 153.14 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Exceptions to the basic provisions of Title XV shall be permitted only
for uses listed in §
153.13 and the complete classification list and only after the issuance of a
conditional use permit. An application for a conditional use permit shall be
filed with the Zoning Officer on a form furnished for the purpose.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by plans and other data as
prescribed on the form.
      (1)   Application review. Each application for a conditional use permit
shall be reviewed by the Board of Adjustment and approved by a majority vote
before a use permit may be issued. The Board of Adjustment may grant or deny
any application for a conditional use permit following the policy hereafter set
forth. An applicant denied a permit may make application for a hearing before
the City Council. The City Council may reverse the decision of the Board of
Adjustment if a majority of the City Council deems the issuance of a permit is
necessary for the protection of the public interest.
      (2)   Requirements for grant of permit. No conditional use permit shall
be granted unless the Board of Adjustment shall find:
         (a)   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of the environment or of other property in the immediate vicinity nor
substantially diminish and impair property values within the surrounding
neighborhood;
         (b)   The proposed development will not increase local or state
expenditures in relation to costs of servicing or maintaining neighboring
properties;
         (c)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses
predominant in the area; and
         (d)   The location and character of the proposed development are
considered to the consistent with a desirable pattern of development for the
locality in general.
(2009 Code, § 905.09)
§ 153.15 SATELLITE DISHES.
   In zones where satellite dish antennas are allowed only by conditional use
permit, the following specifications and restrictions shall apply.
   (A)   The antenna shall have a diameter of 11 feet or less.
   (B)   A site plan showing the proposed a location of the antenna shall be
submitted with the application for a conditional use permit.
   (C)   No conditional use permit shall be granted unless:
      (1)   A separate permit application is filed for each activity and
satellite dish antenna requiring a permit;
      (2)   Each permit application is accompanied by specific plans and all
necessary information upon which to base a decision as to whether or not it
complies fully with the city code; and
      (3)   Payment of a satellite dish antenna permit fees are paid as
establishment by resolution of the Council.
(2009 Code, § 905.09.01)
§ 153.16 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered by the Zoning Officer. No land or
structure shall be changed in use and no structure shall be erected, altered or
moved until the Zoning Officer has issued a zoning permit certifying that the
plans and intended use of land, building and structures are in conformity with
this chapter.
   (B)   No land or structure shall be changed in use and no structure shall be
erected, altered or moved until the Zoning Officer has issued a zoning permit
certifying that the plans and intended use of land, buildings and structures
are in conformity with this chapter.
   (C)   No land or structure hereafter erected, moved or altered in its use
shall be used until the Zoning Officer shall have issued a certificate of
zoning compliance stating that such land or structure is found to be in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(2009 Code, § 905.10)
      (1)   Board of Adjustment. There shall be a Board of Adjustment
consisting of members of the Planning Commission. The terms of the members of
the Board of Adjustment shall be concurrent with their terms as members of the
Planning Commission.
(2009 Code, § 905.10.01)
      (2)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment. Appeals to the Board of
Adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved. The Board of Adjustment shall
fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, giving public notice
thereof, as well as due notice to the parties of interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. At any hearing, any party may appear in person, or by
agent or attorney.
(2009 Code, § 905.10.02)
      (3)   Powers of the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment shall
have the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error
in any order, requirements, decisions or determinations made by the Zoning
Officer;
         (b)   To hear and decide on special exceptions, variances, conditional
use permits and all other matters referred to it or upon which it is required
to pass under this chapter; and
         (c)   In passing upon variances, where there are practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardship in the way of carrying out the strict
letter of this chapter to vary or modify the application of any of the
regulations or provisions of this chapter so that the spirit of this chapter
shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured and substantial justice
done.
(2009 Code, § 905.10.03)
      (4)   Reversing or affirming determination. In exercising the above-
mentioned powers, such Board may reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may
modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may
make such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be made,
and to that end shall have all the powers of the officers from whom the appeal
is taken.
(2009 Code, § 905.10.04)
      (5)   Majority vote sufficient to reverse determination. The majority
vote of the members of the Board shall be sufficient to reverse any order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Officer, or to decide in
favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under
this chapter, or to effect any variation in this chapter.
(2009 Code, § 905.10.05)
      (6)   Board to adopt rules. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules
necessary to the conduct of its affairs, and in keeping with the provisions of
this chapter. Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such
other times as the Board may determine. The Chairperson, or in his or her
absence, the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses. All meeting shall be open to the public.
      (7)   Board to keep minutes. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes
of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examination and other official actions, all of which shall be a public record
and be immediately filed in the office of the City Administrator-Treasurer.
(2009 Code, § 905.10.07)
      (8)   Board actions. The Board of Adjustment shall always act with due
consideration to promoting the public health, safety, convenience and welfare,
encouraging the appropriate use of land and conserving property value, shall
permit no building or use detrimental to a neighborhood, and may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in each case. Any special variances or
special exceptions granted by the Board of Adjustment shall be subject to
appeal to the City Council but do not require Council action for approval or
disapproval.
(2009 Code, § 905.10.08)
§ 153.17 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended whenever the public necessity and the general
welfare require such amendment by the following procedure.
   (A)   An amendment may be initiated by the City Council or the Planning
Commission, or by the verified petition of not less than 50% of the property
owners affected by the proposed amendment and 50% of those property owners
within 200 feet of the proposed change.
   (B)   Before any amendment is adopted, the Planning Commission shall hold at
least one public hearing thereon after a notice of the hearing has been
published in the official newspaper at least ten days before the hearing.
   (C)   Following the hearing, the Planning Commission shall make a report of
its findings and recommendations on the proposed amendment, and shall file a
copy with the City Administrator-Treasurer within 60 days of the date that the
proposed amendments were referred to the Planning Commission. Failure of the
Planning Commission to so report shall be deemed to be approval by the
Commission of the proposed amendment.
   (D)   Upon the filing of such report or upon the expiration of such then
days as aforesaid, the City Council shall hold such public hearings upon the
amendment as it deems advisable. After the inclusion of the hearing, if any,
the Council may adopt the amendment or any part thereof in such form as it
deems advisable. The amendment shall be effective only if two-thirds of all the
members of the Council concur in its passage.
(2009 Code, § 905.11)
§ 153.18 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   Charges and expenses. The City Council hereby establishes a schedule
of fees and a collection procedure for zoning permits, certificates of zoning
compliance and conditional use permits as required by this chapter. The
schedule of fees listed below shall be posted in the office of the City
Administrator-Treasurer, and may be altered or amended only by the City
Council.
   (B)   No permit to issue until all fees paid. No zoning, compliance or
conditional use permit shall be issued unless or until such application fees,
listed below, shall have been paid in full to the City Administrator-Treasurer,
nor shall any action be taken on proceedings before the Board of Adjustment
unless the following application fees have been paid in full.
   (C)   Fees. The City Council shall by Council resolution adopt a fee
schedule for zoning and related compliance permits, which shall be in §
39.01.
(2009 Code, § 905.12)
§ 153.19 ZONING DISTRICT SCHEDULE.
                                       Minimum                  Maximum Limitations
                                       Requirements
           Examples of    Per
           Basic          Unit         Square Front      Corner      Total
 Districts (See           Floor  Lot   Foot   Set-  Side Side   Rear Building Height**
           Classification Area   Width Lot    back  Yard Yard   Yard Coverage
           List)          Square       Area
                          Foot
                                                                                                        Minimum Requirements         Maximum Limitations
                                                                                           Per
                                                                                           Unit         Square     Front      Corner      Total
            Districts Examples of Basic                                                    Floor  Lot   Foot Lot   Set-  Side Side   Rear Building Height**
                      (See Classification List)                                            Area   Width Area       back  Yard Yard   Yard Coverage
                                                                                           Square
                                                                                           Foot
                                                                                           900
                                                                                           for
                                                                                           1st                                                     2
Residential R-1       Single & two family dwellings, churches, schools accessory use or    unit   50'   1st 7,000  30'   10'  20'    35'  35%      stories
                      structure, home occupation                                           750          2nd 4.000                                  or 35'
                                                                                           for
                                                                                           2nd
                                                                                           unit
                                                                                           3,000
                                                                                           sq.
                                                                                           ft.
                                                                                           per          1st 7,000
                                                                                           family       2,000 each
           R-2       Multi- family residential                                            but    75'   additional 30'   20'  15'    25'  40%      75'
                                                                                           less         unit
                                                                                           than
                                                                                           6,000
                                                                                           sq.
                                                                                           ft.
                      Central business district shops, commercial uses, services on-site                                                           3
Commercial  C-1       signs not to exceed 3 units or 25 sq. ft. for ea. 25" frontage       -      -     -          -     -    -      -    90%      stories
                                                                                                                                                   or 45'
                      Tourist services, roadside uses for convenience of travelers,                                                                2
           C-2       grocery store, limited shopping facilities, on-site signs, “drive- -      -     -          25'   8'   15'    15'  50%      stories
                      ins”                                                                                                                       or 35'
Industrial            Limited industry, ware- houses, small repair shops, general                                                                  2
and Related M         manufacturi ng, on-site signs                                        -      75'   10,000     35'   -    15'    15'  50%      stories
                                                                                                                                                   or 35'
                      Parks, recreation; public schools, hospitals, clinics, public works,                                                         2
Public      P         utilities cemeteries                                                 -      -     -          25'   25'  25'    25'  35%      stories
                                                                                                                                                   or 35'
Open        O         Swampy, rocky or other sites unsuitable for development, forest and  -      -     -          -     -    -      -    -        -
                      conservation areas, P uses
** Not including TV, radio antenna, church steeple, smoke stacks, broadcasting towers, siren and bell towers
 
§ 153.20 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section permits, as an accessory use, solar energy
systems, while protecting the health, safety and welfare of city residents and
the property interests of adjacent and surrounding land uses through
appropriate zoning and land use controls.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is
directly integrated into the building by replacing typical building materials.
      GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS. A solar energy system that is
installed directly onto the ground by means of brackets or poles.
      INTERCONNECTION. When a customer-owned solar energy system is connected
to or has access to the electric grid.
      ROOF-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS. A solar energy system where the panels
are mounted to a house or other building.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A set of devices whose primary purpose is to provide
for the collection, storage and distribution of solar energy for space heating
or cooling, electricity generation or water heating.
      SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEM. A system that includes a solar collector and a heat
exchanger that heats or preheats water for building heating systems or other
hot water needs of the building.
   (C)   Permitted accessory use. Solar energy systems are allowable as an
accessory use in all residential districts and as a conditional use in all
other zoning districts, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Standards.
         (a)   Height. Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not project
beyond the peak elevation of a pitched roof and shall not project more than ten
feet above the surface of a flat roof to which they are attached. Ground-
mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 20 feet in height or the height
of the principal structure, whichever is less.
         (b)   Location. Ground-mounted solar energy systems must be located in
the rear yard only.
         (c)   Setbacks. Ground-mounted solar energy systems, at minimum design
tilt, setback distance from property lines shall be equivalent to the setback
requirements of the underlying district or as otherwise needed so as not to
impair sight distance for safe access to the property or other traffic or
properties in the vicinity. Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall comply with
all building setbacks in the applicable zoning district and shall not extend
beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is mounted.
         (d)   Coverage. A roof mounted solar energy system’s surface shall
comply with the Minnesota State Building Code.
         (e)   Feeder lines. All power exterior electrical or other service
lines must be buried below the surface of the ground.
         (f)   Exemption. Building integrated solar energy systems are exempt
for the requirements of this section and shall be regulated as any other
building element.
         (g)   Standards. Reflection angles from collector surfaces shall be
oriented away from neighboring windows. Where necessary, screening may be
required to address glare.
         (h)   Abandonment. Any solar energy system that ceases to produce
energy on a continuous basis for six months will be considered abandoned,
unless the property owner provides substantial evidence to the City
Administrator of the intent to maintain and reinstate the operation of that
solar energy system within an acceptable designated time period. Upon
abandonment of a solar energy system, the property owner must remove all
components of the solar energy system and restore the real property to its
condition prior to development and installation of the solar energy system. If
the property owner does not remove the abandoned solar energy system within 180
days of receiving written notice from the City Administrator, the city may
remove the solar energy system, sell any removed materials and initiate
judicial proceedings or take any other steps legally authorized against the
responsible parties to recover the costs required to remove the solar energy
system and restore the site to a nonhazardous condition. All end-of-life
disposal of solar products must comply with the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act and any state policies governing solar product waste. If an
applicant has received a permit, but has not completed construction of the
solar energy system within 18 months from the date of issuance of the permit,
the system shall be deemed abandoned.
         (i)   Restoration. Upon abandonment, the property owner must ensure
the site is restored to a useful, nonhazardous condition in a timely manner,
including, but not limited to the following:
            1.   Removal of aboveground and belowground equipment, structures
and foundations.
            2.   Restoration of the surface grade and soil after removal of
solar energy equipment.
            3.   Revegetation of restored soil areas with native seeds mixes,
excluding any invasive species.
         (j)   Design plan. Any permit submittal shall include a site or design
plan indicating the adequacy, location, arrangement, size, design and general
site compatibility of the proposed solar energy system.
      (2)   Safety.
         (a)   Compliance with building code. All solar energy systems shall
comply with all local and state and fire building codes.
         (b)   Compliance with electrical code. All solar energy systems shall
comply with the National Electrical Code.
         (c)   Compliance with state plumbing code. All solar energy systems
shall comply with the Minnesota State Plumbing Code requirements.
         (d)   Certifications. Solar energy system components shall be
certified by Underwriters Laboratories Inc. and the Solar Rating and
Certification Corporation. The city reserves the right to deny a building
permit for proposed solar energy systems deemed to have inadequate
certification.
         (e)   Batteries. When solar storage batteries are included as part of
a solar energy system, they must meet the requirements of the Minnesota State
Building Code.
      (3)   Approval.
         (a)   Permits. The erection, alteration, improvement, reconstruction,
and movement of all solar energy systems shall require a building permit from
the city. Installers must be licensed as required by state law and the City
Council shall set the solar energy system permit fee by resolution.
         (b)   Utility notification. All solar energy systems that will
interconnect with the electric grid shall have an agreement with the local
utility prior to the issuance of a building permit. Any connection with a local
utility must be inspected by the local utility prior to use.
         (c)   Aviation. If the solar energy system is over one-half acre in
size and located within five nautical miles of an airport, or is located within
the airport zoning district, airport or FAA notification shall be provided and
approval obtained.
(Ord. - -, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter of the code of the city
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(2009 Code, § 905.13)
CHAPTER 154: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Statutory authorization; findings of fact and purpose
   
154.02   Lands to which chapter applies
   
154.03   Incorporation of maps by reference
   
154.04   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.05   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.06   Severability
   
154.07   Definitions
   
154.08   Annexations
   
154.09   Detachments
   
154.10   Establishment of floodplain districts
   
154.11   Requirements for all floodplain districts
   
154.12   Floodway District (FW)
   
154.13   Flood Fringe District (FF)
   
154.14   General Floodplain District (GF)
   
154.15   Subdivision standards
   
154.16   Utilities, railroads, roads, and bridges
   
154.17   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles
   
154.18   Administration
   
154.19   Non-conformities
   
154.20   Other lawful action
   
154.21   Enforcement
   
154.22   Amendments
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. This floodplain section is adopted pursuant
to the authorization and policies contained in M.S. Chapter 103F, as it may be
amended from time to time; Minn. Rules, parts 6120.5000 through 6120.6200, as
they may be amended from time to time; the rules and regulations of the
National Flood Insurance Program codified as 44 C.F.R. Parts 59 through 78; and
the planning and zoning enabling legislation in M.S. Chapter 462, at it may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   This chapter regulates development in the flood hazard areas of the
city. These flood hazard areas are subject to periodic inundation, which may
result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base. It is the purpose of
this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by
minimizing these losses and disruptions.
      (2)   This chapter is adopted to maintain the community’s eligibility in
the National Flood Insurance Program.
      (3)   This chapter is also intended to preserve the natural
characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to
moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.02 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter applies to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city within
the boundaries of the Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts
and further detailed in §§
154.03 and
154.10.
   (A)   The Floodway, Flood Fringe or General Floodplain Districts are overlay
districts superimposed on all existing zoning districts. The standards imposed
in the overlay districts are in addition to any other requirements in this
chapter. In case of a conflict, the more restrictive standards will apply.
   (B)   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits illustrated on
the official floodplain maps and actual field conditions, the base flood
elevations shall be the governing factor in locating the outer boundaries of
the 1% annual chance floodplain.
   (C)   The regulatory limits of the district boundaries shall be further
extended outward based on the horizontal extension of the regulatory flood
protection elevation (RFPE), defined in §
154.07 of this chapter.
   (D)   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries will be
given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Planning and Zoning
Committee and to submit technical evidence.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.03 INCORPORATION OF MAPS BY REFERENCE.
   The following maps together with all attached material are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of the official zoning map and this
chapter. The attached material includes the Flood Insurance Study for Red Lake
County, Minnesota, and Incorporated Areas and Flood Insurance Rate map panels
27125C0045C and 27125CO225C, all dated March 9, 2021 and prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. These materials are on file in the City
Hall Clerk-Treasurer’s office and map room.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.04 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or other private agreements. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter prevail.
All other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.05 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not imply that areas outside the floodplain districts or
land uses permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter does not create liability on the part of the city or its
officers or employees for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of law, the remainder of this chapter
shall not be affected and shall remain in full force.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. BASE FLOOD is synonymous with the term “regional flood” used in
Minn. Rules, part 6120.5000, as it may be amended from time to time.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the base flood or one percent
annual chance flood. The term BASE FLOOD ELEVATION is used in the flood
insurance study.
   BASEMENT.  Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls or building codes and upon a finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist; and
      (2)   The structure and/or land use conform to the comprehensive land use
plan if one exists and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   CRITICAL FACILITIES. Facilities necessary to a community’s public health and
safety, those that store or produce highly volatile, toxic or water-reactive
materials, and those that house occupants that may be insufficiently mobile to
avoid loss of life or injury. Examples of critical facilities include
hospitals, correctional facilities, schools, daycare facilities, nursing homes,
fire and police stations, wastewater treatment facilities, public electric
utilities, water plants, fuel storage facilities, and waste handling and
storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or
materials.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   FARM FENCE. An open type of fence of posts and horizontally run wire,
further defined by M.S. § 344.02, Subd. 1(a-d), as it may be amended from time
to time, and is not considered to be a structure under this chapter. Fences
that have the potential to obstruct flood flows, such as chain link fences and
rigid walls, are regulated as structures under this chapter.
   FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage
of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the 1% annual chance floodplain located outside
of the FLOODWAY. FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with the term “floodway fringe”
used in the Flood Insurance Study.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made
available digitally is called a DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The study referenced in §
154.03 of this chapter, which is an examination, evaluation and determination
of flood hazards, and if appropriate, corresponding surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation, and determination of mudslide (such as mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN. The beds and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or watercourse
which have been or hereafter may be covered by the base flood.
   FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the base flood discharge.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of 44 C.F.R. part 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures, including additions and improvements, and
placement of manufactured homes, for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across, or projecting
into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory floodplain which may impede,
retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by
catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
   PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE. All uses or structures that are not accessory
uses or structures.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a REACH.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. For the
purposes of this chapter, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is synonymous with TRAVEL
TRAILER/TRAVEL VEHICLE.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). An elevation not less than one
foot above the elevation of the base flood plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a FLOODWAY.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  A term used for flood insurance purposes, and
synonymous with BASE FLOOD or 1% annual chance FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement that occurred before the permit’s expiration
date. The actual start is either the first placement of permanent construction
of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, decks manufactured homes,
recreational vehicles not considered travel ready as detailed in §
154.17 of this chapter and other similar items.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50%of the market value of the structure before the
START OF CONSTRUCTION of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE, regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”. For the purpose of this chapter, “historic structure” is
as defined in 44 C.F.R. part 59.1.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.08 ANNEXATIONS.
   The flood insurance rate map panels adopted by reference into §
154.03 of this chapter may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the
corporate boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this chapter. If
any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the city after the date of
adoption of this chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands will be subject to
the provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of annexation.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.09 DETACHMENTS.
   The flood insurance rate map panels adopted by reference into §
154.03 of this chapter will include floodplain areas that lie inside the
corporate boundaries of municipalities at the time of adoption of this chapter.
If any of these floodplain land areas are detached from a municipality and come
under the jurisdiction of the city after the date of adoption of this chapter,
the newly detached floodplain lands will be subject to the provisions of this
chapter immediately upon the date of detachment.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.10 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Floodway District. The Floodway District includes those areas within
Zones A as shown on the flood insurance rate maps adopted in §
154.03 of this chapter, which are determined to be located in the floodway
based on the floodway and flood fringe delineation methods outlined in §
154.14(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District includes areas within
Zones A as shown on the flood insurance rate maps adopted in §
154.03 of this chapter, which are determined to be located in the flood fringe
based on the floodway and flood fringe delineation methods outlined in §
154.14(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   General Floodplain District. The General Floodplain District includes
those areas within Zone A as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps adopted in
§
154.03 of this chapter.
   (D)   Applicability. Where Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts are
delineated on the floodplain maps, the standards in §§
154.12 or
154.13 will apply, depending on the location of a property. Locations where
Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts are not delineated on the floodplain maps
are considered to fall within the General Floodplain District and the standards
in §
154.14 of this chapter will apply.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.11 REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit must be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator to verify if a development meets all applicable standards
outlined in this chapter prior to conducting the following activities:
      (1)   The erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation, or alteration
of any building, structure, or portion thereof. Normal maintenance and repair
also requires a permit if such work, separately or in conjunction with other
planned work, constitutes a substantial improvement as defined in this chapter.
      (2)   The construction of a dam, on-site septic system, or any fence not
meeting the definition of a farm fence outlined in §
154.07 of this chapter.
      (3)   The change or extension of a nonconforming use.
      (4)   The repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire,
tornado, or any other source.
      (5)   The placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the storage of
materials or equipment within the floodplain.
      (6)   Relocation or alteration of a watercourse (including stabilization
projects or the construction of new or replacement culverts and bridges),
unless a public waters work permit has been obtained from the Department of
Natural Resources.
      (7)   Any other type of DEVELOPMENT as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Minimum development standards. All new development must be:
      (1)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
floatation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   Constructed with materials and equipment resistant to flood damage;
      (3)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (4)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, ductwork,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding;
      (5)   Reasonably safe from flooding and consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage within the flood prone area; and
      (6)   Assured to provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   (C)   Floodplain developments must not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system.
   (D)   Materials that, in time of flooding, are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life shall be
stored at or above the flood protection elevation, floodproofed, or protected
by structural measures consistent with the standards set forth herein.
Furthermore, storage of materials likely to cause pollution of the waters, as
defined in M.S. § 115.01, as it may be amended from time to time, if subject to
flooding are prohibited unless adequate safeguards approved by the state water
pollution control agency are provided.
   (E)   Critical facilities, as defined in §
154.07 of this chapter, are to be located, so that the lowest floor is not less
than two feet above the base flood elevation, or the 0.2% annual chance flood
elevation, whichever is higher.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.12 FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW).
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses, subject to the standards set forth
in division (B) of this section, are permitted uses if otherwise allowed in the
underlying zoning district or any applicable overlay district:
      (1)   General farming, pasture, grazing, farm fences, outdoor plant
nurseries, horticulture, forestry, sod farming and wild crop harvesting;
      (2)   Loading areas, parking areas, streets, trails, airport landing
strips, railroads, bridges, culverts, utility transmission lines and pipelines;
      (3)   Open space uses, including but not limited to private and public
golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds,
boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves,
game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves, hunting and fishing areas, and
single or multiple purpose recreational trails;
      (4)   Residential yards, lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas,
provided these uses do not include associated accessory structures; and
      (5)   Grading or land alterations associated with stabilization projects.
   (B)   Standards for floodway permitted uses. In addition to the applicable
standards outlined in §
154.11(B) of this chapter:
      (1)   The use must have a low flood damage potential;
      (2)   The use must not involve structures;
      (3)   The use must not obstruct flood flows, or increase velocities,
stages, or flood damages, as certified by a registered professional engineer;
      (4)   Development that will change the course, current or cross section
of protected wetlands or public waters is required to obtain a public waters
work permit in accordance with M.S. § 103G.245, as it may be amended from time
to time, or a utility crossing license in accordance with M.S. § 84.415, as it
may be amended from time to time, from the Department of Natural Resources, or
demonstrate that no permit is required, before applying for a local permit; and
      (5)   Any facility that will be used by employees or the general public
must be designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time for
evacuation if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth
(in feet) multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a
product of four upon occurrence of the base flood.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed as conditional
uses following the standards and procedures set forth in §
154.18(D) of this chapter further subject to the standards set forth in
division (D) of this section, if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning
district.
      (1)   Structures accessory to primary uses listed in division (A) of this
section and primary uses listed below;
      (2)   Grading, extraction, fill and storage of soil, sand, gravel, and
other materials for purposes other than stabilization projects;
      (3)   Marinas, boat rentals, permanent docks, piers, wharves, water
control structures, and navigational facilities;
      (4)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials;
      (5)   Fences that have the potential to obstruct flood flows; and
      (6)   Levees or dikes intended to protect agricultural crops for a
frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency flood event.
   (D)   Standards for floodway conditional uses. In addition to the applicable
standards outlined in §§
154.11,
154.12(B), and
154.18(D) of this chapter.
      (1)   Fill; storage of materials and equipment.
         (a)   Fill, dredge spoil, and other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain must be protected from erosion by the use of mulches
or similar materials, with permanent vegetative cover established as soon as
possible. Permanent sand and gravel operations and similar uses must be covered
by a long term site development plan.
         (b)   Temporary placement of fill, other materials, or equipment that
would cause an increase to the stage of the base flood may only be allowed if
the city has approved a plan that assures removal of the materials from the
floodway based upon the flood warning time available.
      (2)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures, as identified in §
154.12(C) of this chapter, may be permitted, provided that:
         (a)   Structures are not intended for human habitation;
         (b)   Structures will have a low flood damage potential;
         (c)   Structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer a
minimal obstruction to the flow of flood waters;
         (d)   Structures must be elevated on fill or structurally dry
floodproofed and watertight to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
Certifications consistent with §
154.18(B) of this chapter shall be required.
         (e)   As an alternative, an accessory structure may be floodproofed in
a way to accommodate internal flooding. To allow for the equalization of
hydrostatic pressure, there shall be a minimum of two openings on at least two
sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings shall be no higher than
one foot above grade. The openings shall have a minimum net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding, have a net area of not less than onesquare inch for every square foot
of enclosed area subject to flooding, and shall allow automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters without human intervention. A floodproofing certification
consistent with §
154.18(B) shall be required.
      (3)   A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in the floodway must not
cause an increase to the base flood. The technical analysis must assume equal
conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a stream.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.13 FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF).
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses are those uses of land or structures
allowed in the underlying zoning district(s) that comply with the standards in
division (B) of this section. If no pre-existing, underlying zoning districts
exist, then any residential or nonresidential structure or use of a structure
or land is a permitted use provided it does not constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses. In addition to the
applicable standards outlined in §
154.11(B) of ths chapter:
      (1)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor, as defined, is at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation (RFPE). The finished fill elevation for structures must be
no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE).
Fill for residential structures must extend at the same elevation at least 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the structure. Elevations must be certified
by a registered professional engineer, land surveyor or other qualified person
designated by the community.
      (2)   Accessory structures. As an alternative to the fill requirements of
this division any enclosed structures accessory to the uses identified in this
section must meet the following provisions:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall constitute a minimal investment not
to exceed 576 square feet in size, and only be used for parking and storage;
         (b)   Accessory structures must allow for the equalization of
hydrostatic pressure by accommodating for the inundation of floodwaters. There
shall be a minimum of two openings on at least two sides of the structure and
the bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade. The
openings shall have a minimum net area of not less than one square inch for
every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding, and shall allow
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters without human intervention;
      (3)   The cumulative placement of fill or similar material on a parcel
must not exceed 1,000 cubic yards, unless the fill is specifically intended to
elevate a structure in accordance with this division (B);
      (4)   All fill must be properly compacted and the slopes must be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method;
      (5)   All new principal structures must have vehicular access at or above
an elevation not more than two feet below the regulatory flood protection
elevation, or must have a flood warning /emergency evacuation plan acceptable
to the city;
      (6)   Accessory uses such as yards, railroad tracks, and parking lots may
be at an elevation lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation.
However, any facilities used by employees or the general public must be
designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation
if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth (in feet)
multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a product of four
upon occurrence of the base flood; and
      (7)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles must also meet the
standards of §
154.17 of this chapter.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed as conditional
uses following the standards and procedures set forth in §
154.18(D) of this chapter and further subject to the standards set forth in
division (D) of this section, if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning
district(s).
      (1)   The placement of floodproofed nonresidential basements below the
regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (2)   The cumulative placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill
when the fill is not being used to elevate a structure in accordance with
division (B) of this section; and
      (3)   The use of methods other than fill to elevate structures above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. This includes the use of: stilts,
pilings, filled stem walls, or above-grade, internally flooded enclosed areas
such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages, meeting the standards in division
(D) of this section.
   (D)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses. In addition to the
applicable standards outlined in §§
154.11(B),
154.13(B) and
154.18(D) of this chapter.
      (1)   The standards for permitted uses in the flood fringe, listed in
division (B), apply to all conditional uses.
      (2)   Residential basements, as defined in §
154.07, are not allowed below the RFPE.
      (3)   All areas of nonresidential structures, including basements, to be
placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation must be structurally dry
floodproofed, which requires making the structure watertight with the walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effects of buoyancy. A floodproofing certification consistent with §
154.18(B) of this chapter shall be required.
      (4)   The placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or other
similar material on a parcel (other than for the purpose of elevating a
structure to the regulatory flood protection elevation) must comply with an
approved erosion/sedimentation control plan.
         (a)   The plan must clearly specify methods to be used to stabilize
the fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the base flood event;
         (b)   The plan must be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to the city; and
         (c)   The plan may incorporate alternative procedures for removal of
the material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists.
      (5)   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may be
utilized to elevate a structure’s lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. The base or floor of an enclosed area shall be considered
above-grade and not a structure’s basement or lowest floor if:
         (a)   The enclosed area is above grade on at least one side of the
structure;
         (b)   It is designed to internally flood; and
         (c)   It is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage. These alternative elevation methods are subject to the following
additional standards.
            (1) Above-grade, fully-enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck
under garages must be designed to internally flood and include a minimum of two
openings on at least two sides of the structure. The bottom of all openings
shall be no higher than one foot above grade, and have a minimum net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding unless a registered professional engineer or architect certifies that
a smaller net area would suffice.
            (2)   Floodproofing certifications consistent with §
154.18(B) of this chapter shall be required. The structure shall be subject to
a deed-restricted non-conversion agreement with the issuance of any permit.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.14 GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT (GF).
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   The uses listed in §
154.12 of this chapter, Floodway District are allowed with a permit.
      (2)   All other uses are subject to the floodway/flood fringe evaluation
criteria specified in division (B), below. Section
154.12 applies if the proposed use is determined to be in the Floodway
District. Section
154.13 applies if the proposed use is determined to be in the Flood Fringe
District.
   (B)   Procedures for determining floodway boundaries and base flood
elevations.
      (1)   Requirements for detailed studies. Developments greater than 50
lots or five acres, or as requested by the Zoning Administrator, shall be
subject to a detailed study to determine the regulatory flood protection
elevation and the limits of the Floodway District. The determination of the
floodway and flood fringe must be consistent with accepted hydrological and
hydraulic engineering standards, and must include the following components, as
applicable:
         (a)   Estimate the peak discharge of the base flood;
         (b)   Calculate the water surface profile of the base flood based upon
a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas; and
         (c)   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the base flood
without increasing flood stages more than 0.5 foot. A lesser stage increase
than 0.5 foot is required if, as a result of the stage increase, increased
flood damages would result. An equal degree of encroachment on both sides of
the stream within the reach must be assumed in computing floodway boundaries,
unless development or geographic features warrant other analysis, as approved
by the Department of Natural Resources.
      (2)   Alternative methods. For areas where a detailed study is not
available or required, the base flood elevation must be determined using best
available data. Until a floodway determination can be completed, the entire
floodplain must be treated as floodway, with allowable activities restricted to
those identified in §§
154.12(A) and (C) of this chapter.
         (a)   Development allowed in floodways (e.g. bridges, culverts,
grading, filling, stabilization projects) must not cumulatively increase flood
stages more than 0.5 foot during a base flood event, as determined by a
professional engineer or by using accepted engineering practices approved by
the Department of Natural Resources. A stage increase less than 0.5 foot must
be used if increased flood damages would result.
         (b)   Development prohibited in floodways (e.g. buildings) require a
floodway/flood fringe determination to verify the development is within the
flood fringe. The floodway/flood fringe determination must be done by a
professional engineer or utilize other accepted engineering practices approved
by the Department of Natural Resources. Any such proposal must assume a 0.5
foot stage increase for the purposes of determining the regulatory flood
protection elevation to accommodate for future cumulative impacts.
      (3)   Review. The Zoning Administrator will review the submitted
information and assess the technical evaluation and the recommended Floodway
and/or Flood Fringe District boundary. The assessment must include the
cumulative effects of previous floodway encroachments. The Zoning Administrator
may seek technical assistance from an engineer or other expert person, or
agency, including the Department of Natural Resources.
      (4)   Processing. Once the Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries
have been determined, the Zoning Administrator must process the permit
application consistent with the applicable provisions of §§
154.12 and
154.13 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.15 SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Subdivisions. No land may be subdivided which is unsuitable for
reasons of flooding or inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities.
   (B)   Home parks, vehicle parks, campgrounds. Manufactured home parks and
recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds are considered subdivisions under
this chapter.
      (1)   All lots within the floodplain districts must be able to contain a
building site outside of the Floodway District at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
      (2)   All subdivisions must have road access both to the subdivision and
to the individual building sites no lower than two feet below the regulatory
flood protection elevation, unless a flood warning emergency plan for the safe
evacuation of all vehicles and people during the base flood has been approved
by the city. The plan must be prepared by a registered engineer or other
qualified individual, and must demonstrate that adequate time and personnel
exist to carry out the evacuation.
      (3)   For all subdivisions in the floodplain, the Floodway and Flood
Fringe District boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the
required elevation of all access roads must be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
      (4)   In the General Floodplain District, applicants must provide the
information required in §
154.14(B) of this chapter to determine the base flood elevation, the Floodway
and Flood Fringe District boundaries and the regulatory flood protection
elevation for the subdivision site.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.16 UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS, AND BRIDGES.
   (A)   Utilities. All utilities and facilities such as gas, electrical,
sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain must be
elevated to the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) or located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
   (B)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and bridges
to be located within the floodplain must comply with §§
154.12 and
154.13 of this chapter. These transportation facilities must be elevated to the
regulatory flood protection elevation where failure or interruption of these
facilities would result in danger to the public health or safety or where such
facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or
auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where
failure or interruption of transportation services would not endanger the
public health or safety.
   (C)   On-site water supply and sewage treatment system. Where public
utilities are not provided:
      (1)   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and are subject to the
provisions in Minn. Rules, part 4725.4350, as it may be amended from time to
time; and
      (2)   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into flood waters, they must not be subject to
impairment or contamination during times of flooding, and are subject to the
provisions in Minn. Rules, part 7080.2270, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.17 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A) Manufactured homes. Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks are
subject to applicable standards for each floodplain district. In addition:
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes must be elevated in
compliance with §
154.13 of this chapter and must be securely anchored to a system that resists
flotation, collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but
are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing manufactured
home parks must meet the appropriate standards for subdivisions §
154.15 this chapter. New or replacement manufactured homes in existing
manufactured home parks must meet the vehicular access requirements for
subdivisions in §
154.15 of this chapter.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles. New recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds
and expansions to existing recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds are
prohibited in any floodplain district. Recreational vehicles placed in existing
recreational vehicle parks, campgrounds or lots of record in the floodplain
must either:
      (1)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes in §
154.17 of this section; or
      (2)   Be travel ready, meeting the following criteria:
         (a)   The vehicle must have a current license required for highway
use;
         (b)   The vehicle must be highway ready, meaning on wheels or the
internal jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks;
         (c)   No permanent structural type additions may be attached to the
vehicle; and
         (d)   Accessory structures may be permitted in the Flood Fringe
District, provided that they constitute a minimal investment, do not hinder the
removal of the vehicle should flooding occur, and meet the standards outlined
in §§
154.11(B) and
154.13(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.18 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Duties. A Zoning Administrator or other official must administer and
enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Permit application requirements.
      (1)   Application for permit. Permit applications must be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator on forms provided by the Zoning Administrator. The
permit application must include the following as applicable:
         (a)   A site plan showing all pertinent dimensions, existing or
proposed buildings, structures, and significant natural features having an
influence on the permit;
         (b)   Location of fill or storage of materials in relation to the
stream channel;
         (c)   Copies of any required municipal, county, state or federal
permits or approvals; and
         (d)   Other relevant information requested by the Zoning Administrator
as necessary to properly evaluate the permit application.
      (2)   Certification. The applicant is required to submit certification by
a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Floodproofing measures must be
certified by a registered professional engineer or registered architect as
being in compliance with applicable floodproofing standards in the State
Building Code. Accessory structures designed in accordance with §
154.13(B) of this chapter are exempt from certification, provided sufficient
assurances are documented. A registered professional engineer is required to
certify that any development in established floodways must not cause any
increase in flood elevations, and development in the general floodplain
district will not cumulatively increase flood stages more than 0.5 foot, or
less if increased damages would result.
      (3)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered, or
nonconforming use. No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in
any manner until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the
Zoning Administrator stating that the use of the building or land conforms to
the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Recordkeeping of certifications and as-built documentation. The
Zoning Administrator must maintain records in perpetuity documenting:
         (a)   All certifications referenced in §
154.18(B) of this chapter as applicable.
         (b)   Elevations complying with §
154.13(B) of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator must also maintain a record
of the elevation to which structures and alterations to structures are
constructed or floodproofed.
      (5)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning Administrator must
notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to work
in public waters pursuant to M.S. § 103G.245, as it may be amended from time to
time, this will suffice as adequate notice. A copy of the notification must
also be submitted to the Chicago Regional Office of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
      (6)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease
base flood elevations. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six months
after the date such supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator must notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes by
submitting a copy of the relevant technical or scientific data.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   Variance applications. An application for a variance to the
provisions of this chapter will be processed and reviewed in accordance with
applicable state statutes and
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Adherence to state floodplain management standards. A variance must
not allow a use that is not allowed in that district, permit a lower degree of
flood protection than the regulatory flood protection elevation for the
particular area, or permit standards lower than those required by state law.
      (3)   Additional variance criteria. The following additional variance
criteria of the Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied:
         (a) Variances must not be issued by a community within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result;
         (b)   Variances may only be issued by a community upon:
            (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (c)   Variances may only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Flood insurance notice. The Zoning Administrator must notify the
applicant for a variance that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification must be maintained with a record of all
variance actions.
      (5)   General considerations. The community may consider the following
factors in granting variances and imposing conditions on variances and
conditional uses in floodplains:
         (a)   The potential danger to life and property due to increased flood
heights or velocities caused by encroachments;
         (b)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
         (c)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems, if any, and
the ability of these systems to minimize the potential for disease,
contamination and unsanitary conditions;
         (d)   The susceptibility of any proposed use and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (e)   The importance of the services to be provided by the proposed
use to the community;
         (f)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
         (g)   The availability of viable alternative locations for the
proposed use that are not subject to flooding;
         (h)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
         (i)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Land
Use Plan and flood plain management program for the area;
         (j)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (k)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site.
      (6)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural
Resources. The Zoning Administrator must submit hearing notices for proposed
variances to the Department of Natural Resources sufficiently in advance to
provide at least ten days’ notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by
electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the respective area hydrologist.
      (7)   Submittal of final decisions to the Department of Natural
Resources. A copy of all decisions granting variances must be forwarded to the
Department of Natural Resources within ten days of such action. The notice may
be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the respective area hydrologist.
      (8)   Recordkeeping. The Zoning Administrator must maintain a record of
all variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and must
report such variances in an annual or biennial report to the Administrator of
the National Flood Insurance Program, when requested by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Administrative review. An application for a conditional use permit
under the provisions of this chapter will be processed and reviewed in
accordance with
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Factors used in decision-making. In passing upon conditional use
applications, the city must consider all relevant factors specified in other
sections of this chapter, and those factors identified in
division (B) of this section.
      (3)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. In addition to the
standards identified in §§
154.12(D) and
154.13(D) of this chapter, the city may attach such conditions to the granting
of conditional use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of
this chapter. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation;
         (b)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions; and
         (c)    Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees, and other protective measures.
      (4)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural
Resources. The Zoning Administrator must submit hearing notices for proposed
conditional uses to the Department of Natural Resources sufficiently in advance
to provide at least ten days’ notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by
electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the respective area hydrologist.
      (5)   Submittal of final decisions to the Department of Natural
Resources. A copy of all decisions granting conditional uses must be forwarded
to the Department of Natural Resources within ten days of such action. The
notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the respective area
hydrologist.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.19 NON-CONFORMITIES.
   A use, structure, or occupancy of land which was lawful before the passage
or amendment of this chapter but which is not in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter may be continued subject to the following conditions. HISTORIC
STRUCTURES, as defined in §
154.07 of this chapter, are subject to the provisions below.
   (A)   A nonconforming use, structure, or occupancy must not be expanded,
changed, enlarged, or altered in a way that increases its flood damage
potential or degree of obstruction to flood flows except as provided in
division (B) below. Expansion or enlargement of uses, structures or occupancies
within the Floodway District is prohibited.
   (B)   Any addition or structural alteration to a non-conforming structure or
non-conforming use that would result in increasing its flood damage potential
must be protected to the regulatory flood protection elevation in accordance
with any of the elevation on fill or floodproofing techniques (that is, FP1
through FP4 floodproofing classifications) allowable in the state building
code, except as further restricted in division (D) below.
   (C)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming structure, is
discontinued for more than one year, any future use of the premises must
conform to this chapter.
   (D)   If any structure experiences a substantial improvement as defined in
this chapter, then the entire structure must meet the standards of §§
154.12 and
154.13 of this chapter for new structures, depending upon whether the structure
is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively. If the proposed
development, including maintenance and repair during the previous 365 days,
plus the costs of any previous alterations and additions since the first flood
insurance rate map exceeds 50% of the market value of any non-conforming
structure, the entire structure must meet the standards of §§
154.12 and
154.13 of this chapter.
   (E)   If any nonconformity is substantially damaged, as defined in this
chapter, it may not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new uses or new
structures in §§
154.12 and
154.13 will apply depending upon whether the use or structure is in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe, respectively.
   (F)   If any nonconforming use or structure experiences a repetitive loss,
as defined in §
154.07 of this chapter, it shall be considered substantially damaged and must
not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.20 OTHER LAWFUL ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter restricts the city from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. If the responsible
party does not appropriately respond to the Zoning Administrator within the
specified period of time, each additional day that lapses will constitute an
additional violation of this chapter and will be prosecuted accordingly.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter will be investigated and
resolved in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances. In responding to a suspected ordinance
violation, the city may utilize the full array of enforcement actions available
to it including but not limited to prosecution and fines, injunctions, after-
the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a request to the National
Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance availability to the
guilty party. The city must act in good faith to enforce these official
controls and to correct ordinance violations to the extent possible so as not
to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.22 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Floodplain designation — restrictions on removal. The floodplain
designation on the official zoning map must not be removed from floodplain
areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error or that the area
has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special exceptions
to this rule may be permitted by the Department of Natural Resources if it is
determined that, through other measures, lands are adequately protected for the
intended use.
   (B)   Required approval. All amendments to this chapter must be submitted to
and approved by the Department of Natural Resources prior to adoption.
   (C)   Map revisions require ordinance amendments. The floodplain district
regulations must be amended to incorporate any revisions by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency to the floodplain maps adopted in §
154.03 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses) constitute a
misdemeanor and will be punishable as defined by law.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   DETACHMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
              Annexes 20 acres more or less, located in the Northeast Quarter of the
-      - -    Northwest Quarter of Section 27 in Township 151 north of Range 44, west of the
              Fifth Principal Meridian
908.02 1-24-  Annexes 77.5 acres, called the “Kankel Addition,” abutting the city of Red
       2005   Lake Falls, as described in the ordinance.
             
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Grants to Otter Tail Power Company permission to erect,
-        - -         construct, install and maintain an electric light and
                     power system and transmission lines
-        - -         Grants a nonexclusive natural gas franchise to Community
                     Co-op of Lake Park, MN
                    
 
TABLE III: DETACHMENTS
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
- -   6-28-  Detaches approx. 47 acres of land, called the Johanneck Detachment from the
      2005   city, as further described in the ordinance.
OAH          Detaches 19.12 acres of land; the lots of the NE quarter of Section 27 of
84-   4-28-  Township 151 in the Buse and Canty’s Addition, the lots in Blocks 16 and 20
0330- 2015   of Buse and Canty’s Addition, as further described in the ordinance, called
32353        the Vatthauer Detachment.
OAH
84-   6-10-  Detaches 4 acres of land; All of Block 19 and lots 8-12 inclusive of Block 16
0330- 2015   in Buse and Canty’s Addition, called the Vatthauer Detachment (4 acres).
32555
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to 2009 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites                       Code Section
12.25                            32.20,
                                 32.23
12.37                            32.25
14.57 to 14.70                   111.36,
                                 111.99
17.135                           132.02
18.75 et seq.                    96.02
18.77, Subd. 8                   96.04
65B.48, Subd. 5                  71.13,
                                 71.14
84.81 through 84.928             71.12
84.87                            71.03
84.91                            71.03
84.92                            71.01
84.415                           154.12
84.922                           71.13
84.928                           71.03
Chapter 103F                     154.01
103G.245                         154.12,
                                 154.18
103G.291                         52.15
115.01                           154.11
115.55 to 115.58                 54.02
115.58                           53.01
116.06, Subd. 11                 132.02
120A.05                          118.01
120A.24                          118.01
144E.10 et seq.                  32.37
144.382, Subd. 4                 52.16
144.391                          112.02
152.0263, Subd. 5                118.01,
                                 133.03
157.16                           111.03
157.16, Subd. 3(d)               111.03
168.13                           95.06
168B.01 to 168B.101              34.01
168B.011, Subd. 2                34.01
168B.011, Subd. 3                95.08
169.011                          70.01,
                                 70.14
169A.20                          71.03
169A.35, Subd. 3                 71.03
169.69                           70.11
169.693                          70.11
169.999                          10.98
205.07                           30.01
245.462, Subd. 23                118.01
260B.198                         131.99
Chapter 326B                     150.01
326B.46                          51.06
326B.46, Subd. 2(c)              51.06
326B.121, Subd. 2(a)             150.01
Chapter 329                      115.03
                                 111.01,
                                 111.02,
Chapter 340A                     111.03,
                                 111.36,
                                 111.99
340A.24                          111.22
304A.101                         111.03,
                                 111.22
340A.28                          111.22
340A.285                         111.22
340A.301, Subd. 6(a)             111.22
340A.301, Subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) 111.22
340A.301, Subd. 6(d)             111.22
340A.301, Subd. 7                111.22
340A.308, Subd. 3                111.22
340A.404, Subd. 1(4)             111.55
340A.404, Subd. 1(b)             111.22
340A.404, Subd. 4(a)             111.22
340A.404, Subd. 4(b)             111.22
340A.404, Subd. 5                111.22
340A.504                         111.33
340A.504, Subd. 3(b)             111.22
340A.408                         111.23
340A.408, Subd. 2(b)             111.22
340A.408, Subd. 3                111.22
340A.408, Subd. 5                111.23
                                 111.03,
340A.409                         111.25,
                                 111.54
340A.413                         111.55
340A.413, Subd. 3                111.20
340A.414                         111.22,
                                 111.35
340A.414, Subd. 6                111.22
340A.509                         111.02
340A.4011, Subd. 1               111.22
340A.801                         111.25
Ch. 342                          118.01,
                                 118.02
342.01                           118.01
342.01, Subd. 50                 118.01
342.0263, Subd. 5                133.01
342.09, Subd. 1(2)               133.03
342.09, Subd. 1(7)(b)(9)         133.03
342.11                           118.02
342.13                           118.02
342.13(c)                        118.01
342.17                           118.01
342.22                           118.01,
                                 118.02
342.22, Subd. 4(b)               118.02
342.22, Subd. 5(e)               118.02
342.24                           118.02
342.39, Subd. 2                  118.04
343.31                           90.18
344.02, Subd. 1(a-d)             154.07
346.36, Subd. 6                  90.18
346.40                           90.13
346.41                           90.13
346.42                           90.13
346.155                          90.03
347.50 to 347.565                90.11
347.51                           90.11
347.52                           90.11
347.52(a) and (c)                90.11
347.54                           90.12
347.515                          90.12
349.11 through 349.23            113.01
412.02, Subd. 3                  30.11
412.141                          30.13
412.151                          30.13,
                                 52.16
Chapter 429                      37.41,
                                 96.06
429.02                           37.42
429.021                          37.42
429.031(a)                       37.44
429.031, Subd. 3                 37.42
429.041                          37.44
429.061                          37.44,
                                 95.10
                                 37.07,
429.101                          95.10,
                                 96.07
435.193                          37.51
436.17                           95.09
437.02                           115.03
459.14, Subd. 7                  37.42
461.12                           95.10,
                                 112.01
Chapter 462                      154.01
462.354, Subd. 1                 32.01
462.357                          118.01
462.357, Subd. 3                 32.05
462.3593, Subd. 9                153.06
462.367, Subd. 14                118.03
                                 37.20,
463.15 to 463.26                 37.23,
                                 37.42
463.17                           95.09
463.26                           150.06
471.6985                         111.53
Chapter 466                      37.03
505.03, Subd. 3                  151.08
609.205(4)                       90.11
609.605(5)                       94.02
609.226                          90.11
626.84                           90.13
626.84, Subd. 1                  133.99
626.862                          10.20
631.48                           10.99
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO 2009 CODE
2009 Code Reference 2021 Code Section
2009 Code Reference 2021 Code Section
100.05              10.21
201.01              30.01
201.02              30.02
201.03              30.03
201.04              30.04
201.05              30.05
201.06              30.06
201.07              30.07
201.08              30.08
201.09              30.09
201.10              30.10
201.11              30.11
201.12              30.12
201.13              30.13
202.01              31.01
202.02              31.02
202.03              31.03
202.04              31.04
202.05              31.05
203.01              31.20
203.02              31.21
203.04              31.22
203.05              31.23
203.06              31.24
203.07              31.25
203.08              31.26
203.09              31.27
203.10              31.28
203.11              31.29
203.12              31.30
203.13              31.31
203.14              31.32
203.15              31.33
203.16              31.34
203.17              31.35
204.01              32.01
204.02              32.02
204.03              32.03
204.04              32.04
204.05              32.05
204.06              32.06
Chapter 206         33.01
207.01              34.01
207.02              34.02
208.01              32.35
208.02              32.36
208.03              32.37
208.04              32.38
208.05              32.39
208.06              32.99
209.01              35.01
210.01              36.01
301.01              37.01
301.02              37.02
301.03              37.03
301.04              37.04
301.05              37.05
301.06              37.06
302.01              37.20
302.02              37.21
302.03              37.22
302.04              37.23
302.05              37.24
302.06              37.25
302.07              37.26
302.08              37.27
303.07              37.52
303.14              37.40
401.01              51.01
401.02              51.02
401.03              51.03
401.04              51.04
401.05              51.05
401.06              51.06
402.01              52.01
402.02              52.02
402.03              52.03
402.04              52.04
402.01.01           52.15
402.01.02           52.16
402.01.03           52.17
402.01.04           52.18
402.01.05           52.19
402.01.06           52.20
402.01.07           52.21
402.01.08           52.21
402.01.07           52.99
403.01              53.01
403.02              53.02
403.03              53.03
403.04              53.04
403.05              53.05
403.06              53.06
403.07              53.07
403.08              53.08
403.09              53.09
403.11              53.10,
                    53.99
403.10              53.99
404.01              54.01
404.02              54.02
404.03              54.03
404.04              54.04
404.05              54.05
404.06              54.06
404.07              54.07
404.08              54.08
404.09              54.09
406.01              55.01
406.02              55.02
406.03              55.03
406.04              55.04
406.05              55.05
406.05              55.06
406.06              55.07
501.01              110.01
501.02              110.02
501.03              110.03
501.04              110.04
501.05              110.05
501.06              110.06
501.07              110.07
502.01              50.01
502.02              50.02
502.03              50.03
502.04              50.04
502.05              50.05
502.05              50.06
502.06              50.07
502.07              50.08
502.08              50.09
502.09              50.10
503.18              90.20
504.01              112.01
504.02              112.02
504.03              112.03
504.04              112.04
504.05              112.05
504.06              112.06
504.07              112.07
504.08              112.08
504.09              112.09
504.10              112.10
504.11              112.11
504.12              112.12
504.13              112.13
504.14              112.14
504.15              112.15
504.17              112.16
504.16              112.99
505.01              113.01
505.02              113.02
505.03              113.03
507.01              114.01
507.02              114.02
507.03              114.03
508.01              91.01
508.02              91.02
508.03              91.03
508.04              91.04
508.05              91.05
508.06              91.06
509.01              92.01
509.02              92.02
509.03              92.03
509.04              92.04
510.01              93.01
510.02              93.02
510.03              93.03
510.04              93.04
510.05              93.05
511.01              94.01
511.02              94.02
511.03              94.03
511.04              94.04
511.05              94.05
511.06              94.06
511.07(1)           72.01
511.07(2)           72.02
511.07(3)           72.03
511.07(4)           72.99
513.01              116.01
513.02              116.02
513.03              116.03
513.04              116.04
513.05              116.05
602.01              111.25
602.03              111.26
602.04              111.27
602.05              111.28
701.01              70.01
701.02              70.02
701.03              70.03
701.04              70.04
701.05              70.05,
                    Ch. 73, Sch. I
701.06              70.06,
                    Ch. 73, Sch. II
701.07              70.07
701.08              Ch. 73, Sch. III
701.09              70.08
701.10              70.09
701.11              70.10
701.11.01           70.11
701.12              70.12
701.13              70.13
701.14              70.14
702.01              71.01
702.02              71.02
702.03              71.03
702.04              71.04
702.05              71.05
702.06              71.06
702.07              71.07
702.08              71.08
702.09              71.09
702.10              71.10
702.11              71.11
702.12              71.12
702.13              71.13
702.14              71.14
702.15              71.15
702.16              71.16
802.01              96.01
802.03              96.02
802.04              96.03
802.05              96.04
802.06              96.05
802.07              96.06
802.08              96.07
802.09              96.08
802.10              96.09
802.11              96.10
802.12              96.11
802.13              96.12
802.14              96.13
803.01              130.01
803.03              132.01
803.04              132.02
901.05              150.99
901.06              150.02
902.01              150.20
902.02              150.21
902.03              150.22,
                    150.99
903.01              150.35
903.02              150.36
903.03              150.37,
                    150.99
904.01              150.50
904.02              150.51
904.03              150.52,
                    150.99
905.01              153.01
905.02              153.02
905.02              153.03
905.03              153.04
905.03              153.05
905.03              153.06
905.04              153.07
905.05              153.08
905.05.01           153.09
905.05.02           153.10
905.06              153.11
905.07              153.12
905.08              153.13
905.09              153.14
905.09.01           153.15
905.10              153.16
905.10.01           153.16
905.10.02           153.16
905.10.03           153.16
905.10.04           153.16
905.10.05           153.16
905.10.07           153.16
905.10.08           153.16
905.11              153.17
905.12              153.18
905.13              153.99
906.01              151.01
906.02              151.02
906.03              151.03
906.04              151.04
906.05              151.05
906.06              151.06
906.07              151.07
906.08              151.08
906.11              151.09
906.10              151.99
907.01              152.01
910.01              38.01
Appendix            39.01
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
06-01-2017 6-12-2017   51.07
10-01-2020 10-21-2020  37.41 through
                       37.51
06-02-2021 6-14-2021   150.03
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.          Date Passed Code Section
-                 - -         TSO, Table I
-                 - -         TSO, Table II
-                 - -         TSO, Table II
-                 2-12-1990   55.01 through
                              55.07
-                 8-26-1991   30.01
                              72.01 through
-                 9-9-1996    72.03,
                              72.99
-                 12-14-1998  51.05
908.02            1-24-2005   TSO, Table I
-                 6-28-2005   TSO, Table III
-                 3-24-2008   51.05
-                 6-10-2013   90.20
-                 5-12-2014   130.01
-                 2-23-2015   52.02
OAH 84-0330-32353 4-28-2015   TSO, Table III
OAH 84-0330-32555 6-10-2015   TSO, Table III
-                 9-26-2016   130.01
-                 11-27-2017  53.10
                              154.01 through
-                 10-22-2020  154.22,
                              154.99
-                 - -2021  Ch. 73, Schedule III
-                 - -         Ch. 73, Schedule III
150.1 - 150.5  9-26-2022   150.01
-                 11-15-2022  117.01 through
                              117.18
37.03             1-23-2023   37.07
                              133.01 through
118               9-27-2023   133.03,
                              133.99
37.07             11-27-2023  37.07
-                 8-12-2024   153.20
52.04             11-13-2024  52.04
118               12-17-2024  118.01 through
                              118.06
                             
 
 
