SCANDIA, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-17-2024
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
   
Appendix:   Notice of code violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”,
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provision, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Scandia as
presently established or as amended by ordinance, annexation, or other legal
actions at a future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used
to refer to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Washington County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into, or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk
for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future supplements are hereby adopted as if they had been in
existence at the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention
expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any Licensed Peace Officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall have the authority to administer and
direct enforcement of this code. In addition, under that statutory authority,
certain individuals designated within the code or by the City Administrator or
City Council shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions
specified.
   (C)   The City Administrator and any city official, employee, or agent
designated by this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this
code may, with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any
property or resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises,
inspect or otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the
Administrator, Peace Officer, or any employee or official charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee in control of property within the city shall permit at
reasonable times inspections of or entrance to the property by the
Administrator or any other authorized city officer, employee, or agent only to
determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection of or entrance to the
property shall be grounds for termination of any and all permits, licenses, or
city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given to the licensee
stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee shall be given an
opportunity to appear before the City Administrator to object to the
termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the Administrator's decision
to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 12-15-2020)
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
Such resolution may not proscribe administrative penalties for traffic offenses
designated by M.S. § 169.999, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective, and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the Peace Officer, City Administrator, or other
person giving notice of an  alleged violation of a provision of this code, in a
written notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the person
who is alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may request
the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation directly to
the City Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation. A sample
notice is contained in the Appendix to this chapter. In the sole discretion of
the person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the time for payment may
be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not requested by the person to
whom the notice has been given. In addition to the administrative penalty, the
person giving notice may request in the notice to the alleged violator to adopt
a compliance plan to correct the situation resulting in the alleged violation
and may provide that if the alleged violator corrects the situation resulting
in the alleged violation within the time specified in the notice, that the
payment of the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 12-15-2020)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, entity, or organization who violates any city ordinance,
including any code established by ordinance, for which another penalty is not
specifically provided, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a petty
misdemeanor. The penalty that may be imposed for any offense that is a petty
misdemeanor shall be a fine of not more than $300.
   (B)   Any person, entity, or organization who violates any city ordinance,
including any code established by ordinance and including state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, that is designated to be a misdemeanor
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty that may be
imposed for an offense that is a misdemeanor shall be a sentence of not more
than 90 days or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution shall be paid by the convicted offender. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by city ordinances, including any code established by
ordinance, shall not subject the officer or employee to the penalty imposed for
a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if any
person, entity, or organization fails to comply with any provision of any city
ordinance, including any code established by ordinance, the Council or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
(Ord. 203, passed 12-18-2018)
APPENDIX
NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of Section of the City Code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §
                    of the City Code relating
to                                                                                                                                      
    
__________________________________________________________________________________.
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $         for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct, or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash, or money
order to the City Treasurer.
Signed:                                                               
      (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY ORGANIZATION
      
31.   CITY POLICIES
      
32.   ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT, CITATIONS AND CIVIL PENALTIES
CHAPTER 30: CITY ORGANIZATION
Section
City Council
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Presiding officer
   
30.03   Minutes
   
30.04   Order of business
   
30.05   Quorum and voting
   
30.06   Ordinances, resolutions, motions, petitions, and communications
   
30.07   Council committees
   
30.08   Advisory committees and commissions
Fire Department
   
30.20   Department established
   
30.21   Personnel
   
30.22   Compensation
   
30.23   Police power
   
30.24   Firefighter relief association
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held
on the third Tuesday of each calendar month at 7:00 p.m. Any regular meeting
falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next following business day at the
same time and place, unless otherwise determined by a majority vote of the
Council. The City Clerk shall maintain a schedule of regular meetings. This
schedule shall be available for public inspection during regular business hours
at the City Clerk’s office. All meetings, including special emergency meetings,
shall be held at the Scandia Community Center, 14727 209th Street North.
   (B)   Work sessions. A work session meeting of the of the City Council shall
be held on the first Wednesday of each calendar month at 6:30 p.m. The City
Clerk shall include these meetings on the schedule of meetings available for
public inspection. Work sessions may be cancelled by the Mayor if there is no
business to come before the Council, with at least 24 hours’ notice to each
member of the Council.
   (C)   Meetings with of the Planning Commission. A meeting of the Planning
Commission shall be held on the first Tuesday of each calendar month at 7:00
p.m. The Planning Commission Chair or any two members of the Commission may
call a special meeting. The City Clerk shall post notice of special meetings at
least three days prior to the special meeting and provide at least 24 hours’
written notice to each member of the Commission.
   (D)   Special meetings. The Mayor or any two members of the Council may call
a special meeting of the Council upon at least 24 hours’ written notice to each
member of the Council. This notice shall be delivered personally to each
member, or left at the member’s usual place of residence with some responsible
person. Similar written notices shall be mailed at least three days before the
meeting date to those who have requested notice of the special meetings. This
request must be in writing and filed with the City Clerk, designating an
official address where notice may be mailed. The request will be valid for one
year.
   (E)   Emergency meetings. The Mayor or any two Council members may call an
emergency meeting when circumstances require the immediate consideration of a
matter by the Council. Notice may be in writing personally delivered to Council
members or may be in the form of personal telephone communication. Notice must
include the date, time, place, and purpose of the meeting. Where practical, the
Clerk shall make an effort to contact news gathering organizations that have
filed a request to receive notice of special meetings.
   (F)   Annual meeting. At the first regular Council meeting of January of
each year, the Council shall do the following:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose an acting Mayor from the Council members who shall perform
the Mayor’s duties during the Mayor’s absence, disability from the city, or in
case of vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has been appointed
and qualifies; and
      (4)   Appoint necessary officers, employees, and members of boards,
commissions, and committees.
(Ord. 125, passed 1-18-2011; Ord. 145, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The presiding officer shall be the Mayor. In the absence
of the Mayor, the acting Mayor shall preside. In the absences of both, the
Clerk shall call the meeting to order and shall preside until the Council
members present at the meeting choose one of their number to act temporarily as
presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the
rules of procedure herein prescribed, and determine without debate, subject to
the final decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and
order. Except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the
proceedings of the Council shall be based on Robert’s Rules of Order, Newly
Revised, Tenth Edition.
   (C)   Appeals. Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the
presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once solely
on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain his or her
ruling, but no other Council member shall participate in the discussion. The
appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present.
   (D)   Rights of presiding officer. The presiding officer may make motions,
second motions, or speak on any question.
(Ord. 91, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 30.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Who keeps. Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the Clerk
or by the Deputy Clerk. In the absence of both the Clerk and Deputy Clerk, the
presiding officer shall appoint a secretary pro tem. Ordinances, resolutions,
and claims need not be recorded in full in the minutes if they appear in other
permanent records of the Clerk and can be accurately identified from the
description given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approvals. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten
form, shall be signed by the Clerk or Deputy Clerk, and copies shall be
delivered to each Council member as soon as practicable after the meeting. At
the next regular meeting following the delivery, approval of the minutes need
not be read aloud, but the presiding officer shall call for any additions or
corrections. If there is no objection to a proposed addition or correction, it
may be made without a vote of the Council. If there is an objection, the
Council shall vote upon the addition or corrections. If there are no additions
or corrections, the minutes shall stand approved.
   (C)   Publication. The Clerk shall publish the official minutes on the city
web site within ten days of their approval. The Clerk shall mail a copy of the
minutes to any resident upon request.
(Ord. 91, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each regular meeting of the Council shall convene
at the time and place appointed. Council business shall be conducted in the
following order:
      (1)   Call to order and pledge of allegiance;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Public forum;
      (4)   Approve agenda;
      (5)   Approval of consent agenda;
      (6)   Public hearings;
      (7)   Committee reports;
      (8)   Staff reports;
      (9)   General business; and
      (10)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Varying order. The order of business may be varied by the presiding
officer.
   (C)   Agenda. The Clerk shall prepare an agenda of business for each regular
Council meeting and file a copy in the office of the Clerk not later than four
calendar days before the meeting. The agenda shall be prepared in accordance
with the order of business and copies shall be delivered to each Council member
and posted at the community center as far in advance of the meeting as time for
preparation will permit. No item of business shall be considered unless it
appears on the agenda for the meeting or is approved for addition to the agenda
by a majority vote of the Council members present.
   (D)   Agenda materials. The Clerk shall see that at least one copy of
printed materials relating to agenda items is available to the public in the
meeting room while the Council considers their subject matter. The agenda items
shall not be considered unless this provision is complied with. This section
does not apply to materials that are classified as other than public under the
state’s Government Data Practices Act, being M.S. §§ 13.01 et. seq., or
materials from closed meetings.
(Ord. 91, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 30.05 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum. At all Council meetings a majority of the elected Council
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from time to time.
   (B)   Voting. The votes of the members on any question may be taken in any
manner, which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes
of the members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote
of each member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except for
payments of judgments, claims, and amounts fixed by statute. If any member is
present but does not vote, the minutes, as to that member’s name, shall be
recorded as an abstention.
   (C)   Votes required. A majority vote of all members of the Council shall be
necessary for approval of any ordinance unless a larger number is required by
statute. Except as otherwise provided by statute, a majority vote of a quorum
shall prevail in all other cases.
(Ord. 91, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 30.06 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS, AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Readings. Every ordinance and resolution shall be presented in
writing. An ordinance or resolution need not be read in full unless a member of
the Council requests a reading.
   (B)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the Clerk, and filed
by the Clerk in the resolution book. Proof of publication of every ordinance
shall be attached and filed with the ordinance.
   (C)   Repeals and amendments. Every ordinance or resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or a section or subdivision thereof shall give
the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or code number of the
ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. Each ordinance or
resolution amending an existing ordinance or resolution or part thereof shall
set forth in full each amended section or subdivision as it will read with the
amendments.
   (D)   Motions, petitions, and communications. Every motion shall be stated
in full before the presiding officer submits it to a vote and shall be recorded
in the minutes. Every petition or other communication addressed to the Council
shall be in writing and shall be read in full upon presentation to the Council
unless the Council dispenses with the reading. Each petition or other
communication shall be recorded in the minutes by title and filed with the
minutes in the office of the Clerk.
(Ord. 91, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 30.07 COUNCIL COMMITTEES.
   The Council may create committees, standing or special, as it deems
necessary. Committees shall consist of as many members and perform such duties
at the Council may require.
(Ord. 91, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 30.08 ADVISORY COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The City Council performs the duties and exercises the
powers of administrative boards, committees, or commissions. However, the
Council may establish boards or commissions as set forth in this section to
investigate subjects or to perform quasi-judicial functions. Additional
administrative boards or commissions shall be established as required by law or
for the administration of a municipal function jointly shared with another
political subdivision.
   (B)   Planning Commission. The Planning Commission is established pursuant
to the state’s Municipal Planning Act, being M.S. §§ 462.351 et. seq., and has
the powers and duties assigned to it by that Act and by the Development Code
(Ordinance 74, as amended). The Planning Commission is hereby designated the
planning agency of the city pursuant to the Municipal Planning Act. The
Planning Commission consists of five members appointed by the Council for
staggered terms of five years, expiring on January 31 of each year. The
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the Planning Commission are appointed by
the Commission from among the members of the Commission, subject to approval by
the Council, for a term of one year. The Commission shall adopt its own rules
and procedures with the approval of the Council. All members of the Commission
may vote on all questions before the Commission. No member of the Commission
may vote on any question in which the member is directly or indirectly
interested.
   (C)   Parks and Recreation Committee. There is established a Park and
Recreation Advisory Commission for the city, to act in an advisory capacity to
the Council in all matters relating to a park and recreation program in the
city. The Park and Recreation Advisory Committee consists of five members
appointed by the Council for staggered terms of five years, expiring on
February 28 each year. The Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the Parks and
Recreation Committee are appointed by the Commission from among the members of
the Commission, subject to approval by the Council, for a term of one year. The
Committee shall adopt its own rules and procedures with the approval of the
Council.
   (D)   Board of Adjustments and Appeals. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.354, as it
may be amended from time to time, a Board of Adjustments and Appeals is hereby
established. The City Council shall serve as the Board of Adjustments and
Appeals. The Planning Commission shall conduct required hearings for the Board
and make recommendations to it on all variance applications.
   (E)   Removal of appointees to advisory committees and commissions. A member
of any advisory committee or commission appointed by the Council may be removed
at any time by the Council.
(Ord. 91, passed 1-2-2007; Ord. 160, passed 3-17-2015)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 30.20 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Creation. The creation of a volunteer fire department known as the
city’s Fire and Rescue Department, which was established as the city’s
Volunteer Fire Department in 1952, is hereby affirmed.
   (B)   Purpose. The Department shall be responsible for the prevention and
suppression of fires, the protection of life and property against fire, and the
rendering of emergency services. The Department shall be equipped with such
apparatus and other equipment as may be required for its purposes.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-19-2009)
§ 30.21 PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Generally. The Department shall consist of a Fire Chief, two Assistant
Chiefs, and a number of firefighters as shall be determined from time to time
by the City Council. All firefighters shall be hired by the City Council as
part-time, on-call employees of the city, and shall be subject to requirements
established from time to time by the City Council pertaining to the
qualifications, physical condition, training, duties, and other matters as may
be required for the lawful and safe operation of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Duties of the Chief. The Chief shall report to and be accountable to
the City Council. The Chief shall be responsible for and have control at all
times over the care and condition of all the firefighting apparatus, equipment,
firefighters, and quarters used by the Fire Department. The Chief shall be
responsible for the training and supervision of the members of the Department,
subject to policies and procedures established by the City Council. The Chief
shall make recommendations to the Council concerning the needs of the
Department, and maintain records concerning all activities of the Department.
The Chief shall assist the proper authorities in suppressing the crime of arson
by investigation or causing to be investigated the cause, origin, and
circumstances of all fires.
   (C)   Selection of officers.
      (1)   The Chief shall be appointed by the City Council for a term of four
years ending on December 31, 2012 and every fourth year thereafter. The City
Council may solicit the recommendation(s) of the members of the Fire Department
prior to appointment of the Chief.
      (2)   The Assistant Chiefs shall be appointed by the City Council for a
term of two years ending on March 1, 2011 and every second year thereafter. The
City Council shall solicit the recommendation(s) of the Chief prior to the
appointment of the Assistant Chiefs.
      (3)   The Chief may appoint other officers within the Department for
terms not to exceed two years as may be deemed necessary for the management of
the Fire Department, subject to approval by the City Council.
   (D)   Rules and policies. The City Council shall have the power and
authority to approve rules for the government of the Fire Department, define
the duties of its officers, and provide for the discipline and/or discharge of
all personnel.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-19-2009)
§ 30.22 COMPENSATION.
   Compensation of all Fire Department personnel shall be as established by
City Council resolution from time to time.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-19-2009)
§ 30.23 POLICE POWER.
   The members and officers of the Fire Department shall possess the police
powers necessary to carry out the duties imposed upon them by law, while
engaged in the service of fire protection or providing emergency services.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-19-2009)
§ 30.24 FIREFIGHTER RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   The members and officers of the Fire Department shall organize themselves
into a firefighter’s relief association.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-19-2009)
CHAPTER 31: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
31.01   Workers’ compensation insurance
   
31.02   Opting out of state requirements concerning temporary family health
care dwellings
   
31.03   Council members and Mayor salaries
   
31.04   Fee schedule
§ 31.01 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION INSURANCE.
   As permitted by state statutes, all members of the City Board, the City
Clerk, and the City Treasurer shall be considered as employees of the city for
purposes of the state Workers’ Compensation Law, being M.S. §§ 79.01 et. seq.,
and all such persons shall henceforth be included as covered employees under
the city’s workers’ compensation insurance.
(Ord. 26, passed 1-17-1989)
§ 31.02 OPTING OUT OF STATE REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTH
CARE DWELLINGS.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, subd. 9, as it may be
amended from time to time, the city opts-out of the requirements of M.S. §
462.3593, as it may be amended from time to time, which defines and regulates
temporary family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 176, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 31.03 COUNCIL MEMBERS AND MAYOR SALARIES.
   Following the municipal regular election in 2016, and following each
subsequent municipal regular election, the salary of the Mayor and Council
members shall be adjusted following the municipal election to become effective
January 1 in a percentage equal to the change in the United States Department
of Labor Consumer Price Index (November report) for all urban consumers U.S.
city average since the last salary adjustment.
(Ord. 156, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 31.04 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The City Council further finds and determines that the rules, regulations,
terms, conditions, provisions, and requirements of this section are reasonable
and necessary to protect the public health, safety, and quality of life in the
city.
 Fees Escrow and Other
                                                                                 Fees        Escrow and
                                                                                             Other
Administration and Finance
Assessment search                                                                $20 each
                                                                                 $0.25 per
                                                                                 page, plus
Faxes (send or receive)                                                          long
                                                                                 distance
                                                                                 charges
Non-sufficient fund check fee                                                    $25 each
Photocopies                                                                      $0.25 each
                                                                                 page
Audio disk - meetings                                                            $10 each
Special meetings scheduled based on individual request                           $100
Documents - public information data request
The city charges for copies of government data. These charges are authorized under M.S. § 13.03, subd.
3. You must pay for the copies before we will give them to you.
The actual cost of making paper or electronic copies includes employee time, the cost of the materials
onto which we are copying the data (paper, CD, DVD, etc.), and mailing costs (if any). If your request
is for copies of data that we cannot reproduce ourselves, such as photographs, we will charge you the
actual cost we must pay an outside vendor for the copies. Services performed by city personnel will be
billed at one and one-half times the actual payroll hourly rate.
Administration Licenses and Permits
Dangerous dog registration                                                       $300 annual
Dog redemption fee                                                               $100 each
Event center license fee                                                         $25 annual
Fertilizer/pesticide                                                             $100 annual
Gambling licenses                                                                $15 per
                                                                                 application
Special event permit                                                             $25
Cannabis business registration fee, annual                                       $2,200
Cannabis business - temporary event fee                                          $250 per
                                                                                 event
Liquor license
   3.2% malt liquor on-sale, annual                                           $150
   3.2% malt liquor off-sale, annual                                          $100
   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor                                                 $25
   Off-sale intoxicating liquor, annual                                       $100
   On-sale intoxicating liquor, annual                                        $2,000
   Annual intoxicating liquor on-sale, club license, maximum, or as provided b$2,000
M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time
   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor, annual                                 $200
   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor, annual                   $2,500
   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor                                      $50
   On-sale wine, annual                                                       $500
   One-day consumption and display permit, non-profit                         $25
   Consumption and display permit, regular                                    $250
   Investigation fee                                                          $ -
   If conducted within the state                                              $500
   If conducted outside the state, the actual costs will be charged not to    $10,000
exceed
Tobacco
   Year-round                                                                 $272 per
                                                                                 application
   Seasonal                                                                   $196 per
                                                                                 application
Building Construction Permit Fees and Licenses
                                                                                 Permit fees to be based
                                                                                 on job cost valuation
                                                                                 or a fixed fee as
                                                                                 stated in the
Building permit fee                                                              following. The
                                                                                 determination of value
                                                                                 or valuation shall be
                                                                                 made by the Building
                                                                                 Official.
Total valuation
$1 to $4,000                                                                     $99.50
                                                                                 $99.50 for the first
$4,000.01 to $25,000                                                             $4,000
                                                                                 $14.75 each additional
                                                                                 $1,000
                                                                                 $415 for the first
$25,000.01 to $50,000                                                            $25,000
                                                                                 $10.75 each additional
                                                                                 $1,000
                                                                                 $680 for the first
$50,000.01 to $100,000                                                           $50,000
                                                                                 $7.50 each additional
                                                                                 $1,000
                                                                                 $1,050 for the first
$100,000.01 to $500,000                                                          $100,000
                                                                                 $6 each additional
                                                                                 $1,000
                                                                                 $3,425 for the first
$500,00.01 to $1,000,000                                                         $500,000
                                                                                 $5 each additional
                                                                                 $1,000
                                                                                 $5,900 for the first
$1,000,000.01 and up                                                             $1,000,000
                                                                                 $4 each additional
                                                                                 $1,000
Air conditioning, (central)                                                      $30
Air-to-air heat exchanger                                                        $30
City inspection fee                                                              $60 per
                                                                                 hour
Building permit refund charge - within one year with no work performed and no    20% of
inspections made                                                                 permit fee
                                                                                 only
Building moving                                                                  $110        $2,500
Electrical                                                                       per state
                                                                                 schedule
Fireplace (zero-clearance)                                                       $30
Gas piping                                                                       $30
                                                                                 $35 plus
                                                                                 one hour
Mechanical                                                                       minimum
                                                                                 inspection
                                                                                 fee
                                                                                 $8 plus one
                                                                                 hour
Plumbing (per fixture)                                                           minimum
                                                                                 inspection
                                                                                 fee
                                                                                 25% of
Plan review fee - identical plans                                                building
                                                                                 permit fee
                                                                                 65% of
Plan review fee - non-identical plans                                            building
                                                                                 permit fee
Returned building permits - permit applications returned without issuance        50% of plan
                                                                                 review fee
                                                                                 Surcharge
                                                                                 fees shall
                                                                                 be
Surcharge fee                                                                    collected
                                                                                 on all
                                                                                 permits
                                                                                 issued
Technology fee                                                                   $2
Investigation fee - Whenever any work for which a city permit is required has commenced without first
obtaining a permit, a special investigation shall be made before a permit will be issued. An
investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall be collected whether or not a permit is
subsequently issued. The investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee required by
this schedule. The payment of the investigation fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with all
other provisions of this code nor from any prescribed by law.
Demolition - accessory building                                                  $60
Demolition - commercial or residential                                           $120        $1,000
Electrical Permit Fees
Residential                                                                                  
                                                                                 $50
Inspection fee                                                                   inspection/
                                                                                 trip
0 to 400 Amp power source                                                        $50 source
401 - 800 Amp power source                                                       $100 source
Over 800 Amp power source                                                        $150 source
0 to 200 Amp circuit or feeder                                                   $12 feeder
                                                                                 or circuit
Over 200 Amp circuit or feeder                                                   $50 feeder
                                                                                 or circuit
New one- or two-family dwelling does not include service (up to 25 circuits and  $150
feeders per unit)                                                                dwelling
                                                                                 unit
New one- or two-family dwelling does not include service (additional circuits    $12 feeder
over 25 per unit)                                                                or circuit
Existing one- or two-family dwelling (up to 15 feeders or circuits are installed $150
or extended per unit)                                                            dwelling
                                                                                 unit
Existing one- or two-family dwelling (where less than 15 feeders or circuits are $12 feeder
installed or extended)                                                           or circuit
Inspection of concrete-encased grounding electrode                               $50
                                                                                 inspection
Technology circuits and circuits less than 50 volts                              $1 device
Pools- plus circuits                                                             $100
Panel changes (per enclosure)                                                    $100
                                                                                 enclosure
                                                                                 $50
Additional inspection trip(s)                                                    inspection/
                                                                                 trip
Surcharge                                                                        $1 permit
Technology                                                                       $2 permit
Nonresidential and Multi-Family
                                                                                 $50
Inspection fee                                                                   inspection/
                                                                                 trip
0 to 400 Amp power source                                                        $50 source
401 - 800 Amp power source                                                       $100 source
Over 800 Amp power source                                                        $150 source
0 to 200 Amp circuit or feeder                                                   $12 feeder
                                                                                 or circuit
Over 200 Amp circuit or feeder                                                   $30 feeder
                                                                                 or circuit
*Over 250 volts:
*0 to 400 Amp power source                                                       $100 source
*401 - 800 Amp power source                                                      $200 source
*Over 800 Amp power source                                                       $300 source
*0 to 200 Amp circuit or feeder                                                  $24 feeder
                                                                                 or circuit
*Over 200 Amp circuit or feeder                                                  $60 feeder
                                                                                 or circuit
New multi-family dwelling unit (with up to 20 circuits and feeders per unit)     $100 unit
New multi-family dwelling unit (additional circuits over 20 per unit)            $12 feeder
                                                                                 or circuit
Existing multi-family dwelling unit                                              $100 unit
Existing multi-family dwelling unit (up to 10 feeders or circuits are installed  $12 feeder
or extended)                                                                     or circuit
Transformer (light, heat, or power) rated up to 10KVA                            $25
                                                                                 transformer
Transformer (light, heat, or power) rated in excess of 10KVA                     $50
                                                                                 transformer
Manufactured home park (lot supply)                                              $50
                                                                                 pedestal
RV pedestals (all circuits originating in pedestal, including factory circuits)  $12 circuit
Street, parking lot, outdoor, traffic standards                                  $5 standard
Power supplies for signs and outline lighting                                    $5 power
                                                                                 supply
Technology circuits and circuits less than 50 volts                              $1 device
Retrofit of existing lighting fixtures                                           $0.50
                                                                                 fixture
Pools- plus circuits                                                             $100
Panel changes (per enclosure)                                                    $100
                                                                                 enclosure
                                                                                 $50
Additional inspection trip(s)                                                    inspection/
                                                                                 trip
Solar photovoltaic systems
0 to 5,000 watts                                                                 $90
5,001 to 10,000 watts                                                            $150
10,001 to 20,000 watts                                                           $225
20,001 to 30,000 watts                                                           $300
30,001 to 40,000 watts                                                           $375
40,001 to 1,000,000 watts                                                        $375
   Each additional 10kW over 40kW                                             $25
1,000,00 to 5,000,000 watts                                                      $3,975
   Each additional 10kW over 1,000kW                                          $15
5,000,000 watts and higher                                                       $12,975
   Each additional 10kW over 5,000kW                                          $10
Surcharge                                                                        $1 permit
Technology fee                                                                   $2 permit
Fire
Fireworks                                                                        $100
Parks and Community Center
Activity fee                                                                     $20
Participation fee                                                                $25
Community center rental                                                          Resident    Nonresident
   Community groups
      less than 150 guests                                                 $150
      150+ guests                                                          $300
      Heritage Room - 50 guests or less                                    $50
Memorial service                                                                 $100        $150
Hall                                                                             $200        $475
Prior day set-up                                                                 $100        $150
Heritage room                                                                    $75         $100
Kitchen                                                                          $300        $300
Attendant if liquor served                                                       $135        $135
Cash deposit required
   Cleaning/damage - determined by size of the event                          $100        $300
   Audio-visual equipment                                                     $100        $100
Park shelter reservation
   Hay Lake shelter                                                           $25         $50
   Warming house                                                              $50         $100
   Cleaning/damage deposit                                                    $100        $100
   Security deposit for lighted ballfield reservations                        $50 - $300  $50 - $300
Ice time reservations ice rink - one session per week for the season             $200 + tax
Ballfield reservation
                                                                                 $0 for Scandia Softball
                                                                                 Association, others
   Lighted ballfield                                                          city may charge the
                                                                                 estimated cost for
                                                                                 lighting
Planning and Zoning
                                                                                Fee         Escrow
                                                                                             Deposit
Variance
   Variance application                                                       $200        $1,800
   Variance extension
      Variance extension - administrative                                  $50
      Variance extension - Council                                         $100        $450
Conditional use permit (CUP)
   Pre-application review - Planning Commission                               $50         $750
   Conditional use permits                                                    $200        $2,500
   CUP amendment                                                              $200        $2,500
   CUP extension
      CUP extension - administrative                                       $50
      CUP extension - Council                                              $100        $450
Interim use permit                                                               $200        $1,500
Annual operating permit
   Annual operating permit renewal - administrative                           $100        $450
   Annual operating permit renewal - Council                                  $200        $1,500
Administrative permits
   Accessory dwelling unit                                                    $250
   Grading/land alteration                                                    $50         $600
   Grading/land alteration more than 100 c.y.                                 $50         $1,000
   Land clearing                                                              $75         $500
   Cell tower admin permit                                                    $50         $375
   Lot line adjustment/lot consolidation                                      $50         $375
   Sign (permanent)                                                           $50
   All other administrative permits, zoning verification letter included      $50
Planned Unit Development
   Planned Unit Development concept plan                                      $200        $750
   PUD preliminary plan                                                       $200        $1,500
   PUD final plan                                                             $200        $3,000
   PUD amendment                                                              $500        $1,500
Site Plan Review
   Pre-application site plan review                                           $50         $750
   Site plan review, minor projects                                           $100        $1,500
   Site plan review, major projects                                           $250        $3,000
   Plan modification                                                          $50         $500
   Site plan extension
      Administrative                                                       $50
      Council                                                              $100        $450
Amendment
   Rezoning (map amendment)                                                   $500        $1,500
   Amendment - development code text                                          $500        $1,500
   Amendment - comprehensive plan map                                         $500        $1,500
   Amendment - comprehensive plan text                                        $500        $1,500
Environmental Review
   EAW (environmental assessment worksheet)                                   $750        $3,000
   EIS (environmental impact statement)                                       $750        $15,000
Subdivision
   Concept plan
   Minor subdivision                                                          $100        $1,500
   Preliminary plat/major subdivision                                         $250        $2,500
   Final plat                                                                 $200        $1,500
   Park dedication fee for each new parcel                                    $3,000
                                                                                 $0.30 per
   Sealcoat fee                                                               square foot
                                                                                 of public
                                                                                 road
Vacation
   Right-of-way                                                               $350        $1,500
   Utility easement                                                           $350        $1,500
Wetland review
Wetland review including no loss exemption/determination, delineation approval,  $100        $800
replacement plan application, wetland banking application, and other
Mines
   AOP                                                                        $500        $5,000
   CUP                                                                        $500        $10,000
City staff and consultant billing - For applications that include excessive staff time, services
performed by city personnel will be billed at one and one-half times the actual payroll hourly rate.
Services provided by city consultants will be billed at the current consultant rate. All recording fees
to be billed at current rates.
Investigation fee - Whenever any work for which a city permit is required has commenced without first
obtaining a permit, a special investigation shall be made before a permit will be issued. An
investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall be collected whether or not a permit is
subsequently issued. The investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee required by
this schedule. The payment of the investigation fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with all
other provisions of this code nor from any prescribed by law.
Payment of fees and escrow deposit - No application shall be considered complete until the fees have
been paid. Application fees are not refundable. In addition to the application fee, applicants shall be
required to reimburse the city for all out-of-pocket costs that are incurred for processing, reviewing
and hearing the application. These costs shall include, but are not limited to: parcel searches;
publication and mailing of notices; review by the city's engineering, planning and other consultants;
legal costs, and recording fees. A minimum escrow deposit to cover these costs shall be collected by the
city at the time of application. The Zoning Administrator shall have discretion to increase the amount
of the escrow for any application at any time if the city's costs are reasonably expected to exceed the
minimum amount. The Zoning Administrator shall also have discretion to require an escrow deposit even
where no minimum amount is specified by this section, if authorized by the Development Code.
Applications for projects requiring more than one type of review (for example, a conditional use permit
and a preliminary plat) shall include the cumulative total of all application fees specified for each
type of review. The minimum escrow deposit shall be the cumulative total for each type of application
required for the project, unless the Zoning Administrator determines that this amount would
significantly exceed the city's reasonable expenses to review the applications, in which case the amount
of the escrow deposit may be reduced. After review of the application has been completed and all costs
have been paid, any costs exceeding the escrow balance shall be invoiced to the applicant. Any escrow
balance remaining shall be refunded to the applicant. No interest shall be paid on escrow deposits.
Amendments to previously approved applications shall require the payment of the same fees as for the
initial permit application, except for plan modifications not requiring review by the Planning
Commission and City Council or as otherwise provided by the Development Code.
Public Works Fees
Right-of-way
   Driveway access                                                            $50         $500
   Obstruction                                                                $50
   Excavating/street opening                                                  $150        $3,500
   Small cell wireless co-locate wireless support structure                   $150
   Small cell wireless co-location annual maintenance                         $25
   Small cell wireless electrical service
      Per radio node - less than or equal to 100 maximum watts             $73
      Per radio node - greater than 100 maximum watts                      $182
      If actual cost of electricity if greater than foregoing              Actual cost
   Small cell wireless application fee - per site                             $100
   Small cell wireless annual fee - per site                                  $270
                                                                                 Latest
                                                                                 published
Equipment - per hour charge (does not include operator)                          FEMA
                                                                                 equipment
                                                                                 rates
                                                                                 Wages and
Public works operator per hour                                                   fringes per
                                                                                 hour worked
Contracted work, materials, and supplies                                         Cost +10%
                                                                                 5% of labor
Administrative fee                                                               and
                                                                                 equipment
                                                                                 total
Sewer
Uptown sewer system
   Base charge
      Annual                                                               $628.90
      Quarterly                                                            $157.23
                                                                                 $74.10 per
Volume charge                                                                    1,000
                                                                                 gallons
Late payment fee                                                                 $10
   Annual interest rate on account balances 30 days past due                  12%
   Annual interest rate on delinquent accounts certified for collection with  12%
property taxes
   Connection fee, per dwelling unit                                          $10,000
                                                                                 Anderson-
Big marine sewer system                                                          Erickson    Bliss sewer
                                                                                 sewer
   Base charge
      Annual                                                               $1,297      $1,446
      Quarterly                                                            $324.25     $361.50
      Seasonal                                                             $750        $750
   Energy adjustment charge
      Annual                                                               $10
      Quarterly                                                            $2.50
   Late payment fee                                                           $10
      Annual interest rate on account balances 30 days past due            12%
      Annual interest rate on delinquent accounts certified for collection 12%h
property taxes
   Connection fee, per dwelling unit                                          $10,000
   Cost of repairs
                                                                                 Latest
                                                                                 published
      Equipment - per hour charge (does not include operator)              FEMA
                                                                                 equipment
                                                                                 rates
                                                                                 Wages and
      Public works operator per hour                                       fringes per
                                                                                 hour worked
      Contracted work, materials, and supplies                             Cost +10%
                                                                                 5% of labor
      Administrative fee                                                   and
                                                                                 equipment
                                                                                 total
 
(Ord. 206, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 213, passed 12-17-2019; Ord. 2020-05, passed
12-15-2020; Ord. passed - -2021; Ord. 2023-01, passed 1-4-2023; Ord. 2023-14,
passed 12-19-2023; Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-17-2024)
CHAPTER 32: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT, CITATIONS AND
CIVIL PENALTIES
Section
   
32.01   Application
   
32.02   Findings; purpose and intent
   
32.03   General provisions
   
32.04   Procedures
   
32.05   Request for hearing; Hearing Officer
   
32.06   Enforcement, civil remedies, and city corrective action
   
32.07   Criminal penalties
   
32.08   Incorporated policies and standards
§ 32.01 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall govern administrative code enforcement citations and
civil penalties for violations of the city’s ordinances.
(Ord. 205, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 32.02 FINDINGS; PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The City Council finds that there is a need for one or more alternate
methods of enforcing the city’s ordinances. Though criminal fines and penalties
have been the most frequent enforcement mechanism, there are certain negative
consequences for both the city and the accused in that system. The delay
inherent in that system does not ensure prompt resolution. Citizens resent
being labeled as criminals for violations of administrative regulations. The
higher burden of proof and the potential for incarceration do not appear
appropriate for many administrative violations. The criminal process does not
always regard city ordinance violations as being particularly important.
Accordingly, the City Council finds that the use of administrative citations
and the imposition of civil penalties is a legitimate and necessary alternative
method of enforcement. This method of enforcement shall be in addition to any
other legal remedies which could be pursued for city ordinance violations.
   (B)   The administrative offense procedures established under this chapter
are intended to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost
effective, and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for
violations of certain ordinance provisions. The procedures are intended to be
voluntary on the part of those who have been charged with the administrative
offenses. At any time prior to the payment of the administrative penalty as is
provided for hereafter, the individual may withdraw from participation in the
procedures, in which event the city may bring criminal charges in accordance
with law. Likewise, the city, in its discretion, may choose not to initiate an
administrative offense and may bring criminal charges in the first or
succeeding instances.
(Ord. 205, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 32.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Administrative offenses established. A violation of any provision of
the city’s ordinances or the acts prohibited in § 32.08 is an administrative
offense that may result in an administrative citation and civil penalties
pursuant to this chapter. Each day a violation exists constitutes a separate
offense.
   (B)   Fines established.
      (1)   Fine per offense. The city's fine is set in the amount of $100 for
each administrative offense unless a fine or civil penalty is expressly set
forth in a different amount elsewhere in city code or per the fine schedule
adopted by the City Council under division (B)(2). The administrative fine
imposed for a subsequent violation of the same or similar nature as another
violation by the same person shall be increased by the total number of
violations. As a result, a second violation shall be 200% of the stated amount,
and a third violation shall be 300% of the stated amount. The maximum fine for
a violation, however, shall be set at the petty misdemeanor maximum, as
amended, which as of 2023 is $300. For continuous violations, after the $300
maximum penalty amount has been reached, the city may impose multiple
administrative penalties at the maximum amount until the ordinance violation is
completely corrected.
      (2)   City fine schedule. The City Council may amend the civil penalty
amounts by including a list of the amounts in the city’s fee schedule ordinance
that is adopted from time to time. Penalty amounts shall be determined in
accordance with the fee schedule in effect on the date of the violation.
   (C)   Service of city enforcement action. As used in this chapter, service
of a city code enforcement document may be accomplished by delivering a copy to
the person directly; by leaving a copy at the individual person’s usual place
of abode with some person of suitable age and discretion then residing there;
by depositing a copy in the U.S. mail at a receptacle in the county, postage
prepaid and properly addressed to last known address of the person to be
served; or by any other manner provided in the Minnesota Rules of Civil
Procedure. In the case of service by mail, service is completed on mailing.
(Ord. 205, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 32.04 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Code enforcement options and sequence. The objective is for all city
residents to comply with the city's ordinances.
      (1)   As more fully set forth below, the city anticipates the following
code enforcement sequence:
         (a)   Notice or order to correct the ordinance violation;
         (b)   Administrative citation with imposed penalty if there is a
failure to correct;
         (c)   Hearing Officer proceeding if requested by resident or city; and
         (d)   Civil district court enforcement actions and/or criminal
prosecution.
      (2)   Facts and circumstances, however, may change the sequence and
manner of the city's code enforcement procedures and actions.
   (B)   Notice or order to correct: exceptions and extensions. Upon reasonable
belief that a code violation has occurred, the City Administrator, or any other
person (the “Official”) employed by the city and authorized in writing by the
City Administrator or any officer of the County Sheriff’s Department (the
“Official”) may serve on the violator the notice or order to correct or any of
the above described code enforcement actions.
   (C)   Administrative citation. If compliance is not achieved within the
timeline prescribed in an order to correct a violation, the Official is
authorized to issue an administrative citation. An administrative citation
shall be served on the person responsible for the violation. The citation shall
provide the following:
      (1)   The date, time, location, and nature of the offense;
      (2)   The relevant portion(s) of the city code related to the offense;
      (3)   The amount of the scheduled civil penalty and instructions for
paying the penalty;
      (4)   Identification of the Official or law enforcement officer issuing
the citation;
      (5)   A statement that the city code violation and the amount of the
administrative civil penalty may be contested to be heard before a Hearing
Officer by notifying the City Administrator or designated city representative
in writing within 14 days of the date of the citation; and
      (6)   A statement that failure to pay the administrative civil penalty
may result in it being assessed against the property as provided in M.S. Ch.
429, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Immediate administrative citation. For the following violations, the
city shall not be required to issue an order to correct and may proceed
directly to the issuance of an administrative citation.
      (1)   Repeat offender. If the same person commits a subsequent violation
within 12 months after an order to correct has been issued for the same or
similar offense.
      (2)   License violations. For any license violations, including not
having a license.
      (3)   Parking violations. For parking violations issued under
Chapter 72, as amended, of this code.
      (4)   Animal violations. For any violations of
Chapter 90, as amended, of this code.
      (5)   Noise violations. For any violation of §§
91.09 to
91.08, as amended.
      (6)   Other violations. Any city code expressly authorizing the immediate
issuance of an administrative citation for specific code violations;
circumstances that in the discretion of the City Administrator require
immediate corrective action.
   (E)   Payment of fines. Within 30 days of the service of the citation, the
alleged violator shall pay the amount of the applicable civil penalty.
(Ord. 205, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 32.05 RECOVERY OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Hearing petition. Any person contesting an order to correct or
citation issued pursuant to this chapter may, within 14 days of the service of
the order to correct or the issued citation file with the City Clerk or City
Administrator a completed and signed hearing petition requesting a hearing be
scheduled before a Hearing Officer.
   (B)   Hearing petition fee. The hearing petition fee shall be in the amount
adopted by resolution of the City Council. The hearing petition fee is an
estimate, intended to cover the city’s hearing expenses. A person requesting a
hearing must pay the hearing petition fee at the time of submitting the hearing
petition to the City Clerk or City Administrator, otherwise the hearing
petition will not be deemed complete. Per division (H) below, the non-
prevailing party shall pay for all the actual hearing expenses.
   (C)   Hearing Officer. Hearing Officers will be lawyers who have had a
minimum of three years of legal work experience. The City Council will
periodically approve a list of lawyers and authorize the City Administrator to
enter into a contract with the lawyer at pre-approved rates. The City
Administrator will select a Hearing Officer from the approved list to hear and
determine a matter for which a hearing is requested. The Hearing Officer shall
not be a current or former employee of the city. A Hearing Officer may be a
member of a city committee as long as the disputed matter either has not been
decided by, or will not come in any manner before, that city committee. If the
selected lawyer believes there is a conflict of interest or otherwise believes
that the lawyer should not or cannot hear the hearing petition matter, then the
selected lawyer should so inform the City Administrator or the City Clerk as
soon as practical, and the City Administrator shall proceed to select a
different Hearing Officer from the approved list.
   (D)   Date, location, and notice of hearing. The Hearing Officer shall set
the hearing date, time, and location. The hearing shall be held at Scandia City
Hall unless another location has been agreed to by all parties and the Hearing
Officer. Notice of the hearing must be served on the person responsible for the
violation no less than 30 days in advance of the scheduled hearing, unless a
shorter time is accepted by both parties.
   (E)   Hearing procedures. The Hearing Officer controls the proceedings in
all respects. During the hearing, the alleged violator and the city shall
present their respective positions based on documented evidence to be presented
to the independent Hearing Officer at the schedule hearing. The Hearing Officer
shall record the hearing and receive testimony and exhibits, and the full
record of the hearing, including the recording, shall be provided to the city
and retained for the period required under Minnesota law. The Hearing Officer
shall receive and give weight to evidence, based on the probative value
commonly accepted by reasonable and prudent people in the conduct of their
affairs.
   (F)   Hearing Officer authority and decision. The Hearing Officer has the
authority to determine that a violation did or did not occur, to dismiss a
citation, to impose the scheduled fine, or to reduce, stay, or waive a
scheduled fine, either unconditionally or upon compliance with appropriate
conditions. The objective of the city, and by extension the objective of the
Hearing Officer is to obtain code compliance; therefore, if the Hearing Officer
determines that a violation has occurred and exists, when imposing a penalty
for a violation, the Hearing Officer may consider any of all of the following:
      (1)   The duration of the violation;
      (2)   The frequency or recurrence of the violation;
      (3)   The seriousness of the violation;
      (4)   The history of the violation;
      (5)   The violator’s conduct after issuance of the notice of hearing;
      (6)   The effort of the violator to comply;
      (7)   The economic impact of the penalty on the violator;
      (8)   The impact of the violation upon the community; and/or
      (9)   Any other factors appropriate to a just result.
   (G)   Fines for continuing violations. The Hearing Officer may exercise
discretion to impose additional administrative fines for more than one day of a
continuing violation, based on a finding that the accused intentionally and
unreasonably refused to comply with the code requirement. The Hearing Officer’s
decision and supporting reasons for continuing violations must be in writing.
   (H)   Decision of the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall issue a
decision in writing to both parties within ten business days of the hearing.
Any fines or penalties imposed must be paid no later than 30 days from the date
of the Hearing Officer’s decision. If the fine is not timely paid, the city may
assess the civil penalty against the person’s property pursuant to M.S. Ch.
429, as it may be amended from time to time. If the Hearing Officer dismisses
all violations and administrative fines, then the person shall receive a full
refund of the hearing fee.
      (1)   Hearing costs; payment; non-prevailing party. The cost of the
hearing shall be borne solely by the non-prevailing party. The city shall
provide an estimate of the cost of the hearing at the time of the hearing
petition. The City Council has the authority to reduce the non-prevailing
party’s costs where that party can demonstrate indigency by clear and
convincing evidence.
      (2)   Inability to pay petition fee or costs. If the alleged violator's
income is at or below the 125% of the federal poverty level, receives public
assistance, or does not have enough money to pay the filing fee, then the City
Administrator or the Hearing Officer may waive all or a portion of the hearing
costs. The alleged violator must provide proof of financial need, such as tax
return, W-2, or public assistance documents.
   (I)   Hearing Officer authority and duties and responsibilities; hearing
procedures. If the Hearing Officer cannot fairly and objectively review the
case, the Hearing Officer shall remove himself, herself, or theirself from the
case, and the City Administrator shall assign another Hearing Officer. The
Hearing Officer is not a judicial officer, but is a public officer as defined
by M.S. § 609.415, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (J)   Appeal of Hearing Officer decision. The decision of the Hearing
Officer is deemed final, unless and until appealed to the state district court,
Washington County, State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 205, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 32.06 ENFORCEMENT, CIVIL REMEDIES, AND CITY CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   The city may elect to undertake any of the following enforcement actions
individually or collectively and in any order and the city’s enforcement action
under one of the following cannot and does not preclude the city from
undertaking any of the other enforcement actions under city code or otherwise
as authorized by law.
   (A)   Corrective action. The city may seek a court order permitting the city
enter a person’s property and take corrective action to bring the property in
to code compliance and in addition seek the right to impose an assessment on
the property for all of the city’s correction costs as well as the city
attorneys’ fees and costs.
   (B)   Unpaid fines. If a civil penalty is not paid within the time
specified, it shall constitute:
      (1)   A lien upon the real property upon which the violation occurred if
the property or improvements on the property was the subject of the violation
and the property owner was found responsible for that violation; or
      (2)   A personal obligation of the violator in all other situations.
   (C)   Assessment. The property may be assessed for all fines and city cost
and expenses and collected in the same manner as taxes.
   (D)   Personal obligation. A personal obligation may be collected by any
appropriate legal means.
   (E)   Late fee. A late payment fee to 10% of the fine shall be assessed for
each 30-day period, or part thereof, that the fine remains unpaid after the due
date.
   (F)   Suspension and revocation. Failure to pay a fine is grounds for
suspending or revoking a license or permit or other city approvals associated
with the violation.
(Ord. 205, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 32.07 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   All code violations under this chapter are, at minimum, petty misdeameanors.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, code violations may also be deemed and
shall be punishable as misdemeanor offenses. And to the fullest extent
permitted by law, the following shall be deemed separate and continuing city
code violations and misdemeanor violations:
   (A)   Failure to pay a fine or request a hearing within 14 days after
service of an administrative citation;
   (B)   Failure to appear at a scheduled hearing after service of a notice
regarding the same; and
   (C)   Failure to pay a fine imposed by a Hearing Officer within 14 days
after it was imposed, or such other time as may be established by the Hearing
Officer.
(Ord. 205, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 32.08 INCORPORATED POLICIES AND STANDARDS.
   The following policies and standards are incorporated into this chapter as
if fully set forth herein:
   (A)   The Unified Development Code, as amended;
   (B)   Engineering Standards and Detail Specifications, adopted April 16,
2019 and subsequent revisions;
   (C)   Snow Plowing and Ice Control Policy, adopted February 15, 2011, and
amended April 15, 2014 and February 21, 2017 and subsequent revisions; and
   (D)   Road Right-of-Way Maintenance Policy, adopted November 15, 2016 and
subsequent revisions.
(Ord. 205, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 211, passed 5-21-2019; Ord. 2024-01, passed
2-20-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UPTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM
      
51.   BIG MARINE SEWER UTILITY
      
52.   SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
      
53.   ELECTRICITY
CHAPTER 50: UPTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM
Section
   
50.01   Title
   
50.02   Purpose and intent
   
50.03   Rules and definitions
   
50.04   User charges and billing
   
50.05   Accounts
   
50.06   Delinquent accounts
   
50.07   Connections to the uptown wastewater treatment system
   
50.08   Maintenance and operation of the system
   
50.09   Prohibited waste discharges
   
50.10   Cost of repairs
   
50.11   Administration and enforcement
§ 50.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited, and referred to as the “Uptown
Wastewater Treatment System Ordinance”, except as referred to herein, where it
shall be know, as “this chapter”.
(Ord. 134, passed - -2012)
§ 50.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish the requirements for the
operation, maintenance, and administration of uptown wastewater treatment
system (UWTS) owned and operated by the city which serves the village center
portion of the city and to establish a mechanism for setting user charges
therefor. This chapter is intended to provide for operation of the system in
accordance with all applicable laws and in an environmentally sound manner, and
to provide for the collection of sufficient revenues to financially balance
revenues and expenditures for operation and maintenance of the system.
(Ord. 134, passed - -2012)
§ 50.03 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   In the event of conflicting provisions in the text of this chapter,
and/or other ordinances, the more restrictive provisions shall apply. The City
Council shall determine, in its sole discretion, which is more “restrictive”.
   (B)   Words used in the present tense shall include the past and future
tense; the singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.
   (C)   The word “shall” is mandatory and the word “may” is permissive.
   (D)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCOUNT. A record of periodic costs for sewer service provided to each
property connected to the city’s UWTS.
      CITY. The City of Scandia, Washington County, Minnesota.
      OWNER. The owner of a parcel of real property in the city which is served
by the UWTS or upon which the private portion of the system or the public
portion of the system are located.
      PRIVATE PORTION OF THE SYSTEM. The portion of the UWTS that resides
within the individual parcel boundaries of the user and which has not been
specifically defined as a public portion of the system, including water meters,
building service lines, septic tanks, pumps, and any other components serving
individual users of the system.
      PUBLIC PORTION OF THE SYSTEM. The portion of the UWTS that is owned and
operated by the city, including the soil treatment system, pre-treatment units,
tanks, pumps, control panels, collection lines, force main, and any other
components serving more than one user of the system.
      UPTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM (UWTS). A wastewater treatment system
that serves the city center of the city and consisting of: collector lines;
pumps; sewage tanks; soil treatment unit; and any related appurtenances.
      USER. The resident, inhabitant, or occupant of an establishment that is
causing or permitting the discharge of wastewater to the UWTS.
(Ord. 134, passed - -2012)
§ 50.04 USER CHARGES AND BILLING.
   (A)   A schedule of user charges and other fees shall be adopted from time
to time by ordinance as allowed by and in accordance with state statutes. The
ordinance shall be kept on file and open to inspection in the office of the
City Clerk and shall be uniformly enforced.
   (B)   Bills shall be mailed for each account on or before the fifth day of
January, April, July, and October of each year and specify the charges in
accordance with the current fee schedule set by ordinance of the City Council.
All charges shall be due upon receipt and considered delinquent after the fifth
day of the following month.
   (C)   User charges and fees for the uptown wastewater treatment system shall
be as follows.
 
                                                         Fee
Base charge                                               $83.33/quarter
Volume charge                                             $47.43/1,000 gallons
Late payment fee                                          $10
Annual interest rate on account balances 30 days past due 12%
Annual interest rate on delinquent accounts certified for 12%
collection with property taxes
Connection fee, per dwelling unit                         $8,000
 
(Ord. 148, passed 12-17-2013; Ord. 191, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 50.05 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner of the
property, at the mailing address to which property tax bills are sent by the
county, unless a written request for an alternative billing address is
submitted to the city by the owner.
   (B)   The owner shall be liable for the sewer service supplied to the
property, whether he or she is occupying the property or not, and in addition
to any other remedy available to the city, including those identified in §
50.06 below, any unpaid charges shall be a lien upon the property to the full
extent allowed by law.
(Ord. 134, passed - -2012)
§ 50.06 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Late payment penalties shall be assessed on all delinquent accounts in
accordance with the schedule adopted by resolution of the City Council from
time to time.
   (B)   Partial payments on delinquent accounts shall first be applied to any
penalties and then to user charges.
   (C)   All delinquent accounts as of October 15 of each year shall be
certified to the County Auditor for collection with taxes in the following
year, according to the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice of the delinquent charges shall be sent to each account
holder by first class mail and to the address of the owner in accordance with §
50.05, not less than ten days prior to the date of a City Council hearing to
consider the charges proposed to be certified for collection with property
taxes for the property.
      (2)   The notice shall state that if payment is not made before the date
for certification, the entire amount plus penalties will be certified to the
County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected.
      (3)   A hearing shall be held by the City Council at its regular meeting
during the month of November. Account holders and property owners with unpaid
accounts shall have the opportunity to object to the certification of unpaid
charges to be collected as taxes are collected. If, after the hearing, the City
Council finds that all or any portion of the amounts claimed as delinquent are
actually due and unpaid, and there is no legal reason why the unpaid charges
should not be certified for collection with taxes against the property in
accordance with this chapter, the city may certify the unpaid charges to the
County Auditor for collection as other taxes against the property are
collected.
      (4)   For each certification sustained, the property owner shall have the
following options after the hearing:
         (a)   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary
assessment roll, but without additional interest after the hearing, within ten
days of the hearing date; or
         (b)   To pay the certified charges as billed to the property owner by
the county on the owner’s property tax statement with a collection term of one
year.
      (5)   Fifteen days after the hearing, the certified roll, minus any
payments, shall be delivered to the county.
   (D)   The city may, in lieu of or in addition to certification as provided
in division (C) above, in its discretion, file suit in a civil action against
the owner of the property to collect the amounts as are delinquent and due
against the occupant or user of the real estate and shall collect, as well, all
costs and attorney’s fees incurred by the city in filing the civil action.
Attorney’s fees shall be fixed by order of the court.
(Ord. 134, passed - -2012)
§ 50.07 CONNECTIONS TO THE UPTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public or private portion of the UWTS
or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city
or county as may be applicable.
   (B)   All sewer connections shall conform to applicable requirements of the
State Building and Plumbing Code and all applicable rules and regulations of
the city or county. All connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight,
and verified by proper testing to prevent the infusion of infiltration/inflow.
Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials shall be approved
prior to installation. The connection and inspection shall be made under the
supervision of the city building official or his or her designee.
   (C)   New connections to the UWTS system shall be prohibited unless the city
determines that sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities.
Any person proposing a new connection to the system shall be responsible for
the cost of any engineering studies or other use of city consultants necessary
to determine whether there is sufficient capacity in the collection and
treatment system, and for the cost of any improvements or modifications to the
system necessitated by the new connection. All costs and expense incident to
the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
user. New users connecting to the system shall pay to the city a sewer
connection fee to be determined by the City Council at the time the connection
is made.
   (D)   Each user shall install and maintain a water meter of a type approved
by the city.
(Ord. 134, passed - -2012)
§ 50.08 MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION OF THE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Subject to any assessment or other right to seek reimbursement from
benefitted properties or owners, the city shall bear the expense for the
maintenance, repair, and operation of the public portion of the system. Users
and owners shall allow access to the public portion of the system on their
property.
   (B)   The user shall bear the expense for the maintenance, repair, and
operation of the private portion of the system. Maintenance and repair shall
include, but not be limited to: septic and pump tank pumping in accordance with
Minn. Rules Ch. 7080; county ordinance; and the city’s operating permit for the
system; repair of leaking tanks or pipes; repair or replacement of pumps,
control panels, and accessories; and any other work as determined by the city
as being necessary to prevent harm to the UWTS.
   (C)   The user shall allow the city access to inspect the private portion of
the system. If the user fails to provide needed maintenance or repairs, the
city may make the repair and bill it to the user. If the user fails to pay the
charge within 60 days of the date of the bill, the city may assess the cost
against the user and collect the assessment as an additional charge for the use
of the system or may pursue any other method of collection of the costs the
city deems appropriate.
   (D)   The city will read water meters on a periodic basis to monitor the use
of the system and for billing purposes. The users and owners shall allow access
to and testing of the meter as determined necessary by the city. If a meter is
found to be inaccurate, it shall be replaced by the user or owner at its
expense with an accurate meter.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with the meter or in any
way cause it to provide an inaccurate reading.
   (F)   Users are required to report any sewer problems or backups to the
city. The user shall immediately repair any plumbing malfunction (including,
but not limited to, leaking or running toilets or urinals, or malfunctioning
water softener or other appliance) that has the potential to cause an increase
in wastewater flow to the system.
   (G)   Replacement of any plumbing fixture shall be by “low flow” fixtures as
defined by the Plumbing Code.
   (H)   Users shall not do anything to cause a violation of the conditions of
any permit, law, rule, standard, or ordinances of any governing bodies or
agencies that apply to the system, including, but not limited to, the
ordinances of the city, the county, or requirements of the state’s Pollution
Control Agency.
   (I)   (1)   Users shall not contribute a volume of wastewater to the system
at a rate greater than the following.
User Average Daily Flow (gallons/day calculated over a period of one calendar
     year)
                                      Average Daily Flow (gallons/day
User                                  calculated over a period of one calendar
                                      year)
Elim Lutheran Church (including       450
residence/former parsonage)
Gammelgarden Museum                   55
R&B Auto (21060 Olinda Trail)         200
Scandia Cafe/Store/Deli (aka          700
“Superette”)
Scandia Community Center and Warming  340
House (14727 209th St. N)
Schmitt Mall (21080 Olinda Trail) and
Edward Jones (21084 Olinda Trail),    260
combined
Yoga Hus (21070 Olinda Trail)         15
Total                                 2,020
 
      (2)   Users found to be exceeding these limits may be required to reduce
flows below permitted levels. The city may revise this table by reducing or
increasing individual user’s permitted flow, such that the total flow is not
exceeded, upon agreement by all users affected.
   (J)   Any proposed change in land use, application for a building permit for
interior alterations, and/or application for a plumbing or mechanical permit
for a property served by the UWTS shall be reviewed by the city for its
potential impact on the UWTS. No zoning permit or building permit shall be
issued if it is found by the city to create the potential for the design flow
of the UWTS to be exceeded.
(Ord. 134, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09 PROHIBITED WASTE DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No user shall make or maintain connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, surface runoff, or groundwater to a building sewer or
indirectly into the UWTS.
   (B)   No user shall discharge into the UWTS any INCOMPATIBLE WASTE, defined
as waste that either singly by interaction with other wastes interferes with
any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates
a public nuisance, or creates a hazard in the treatment system.
   (C)   No user shall discharge any garbage or food waste, nor shall a garbage
grinder or garbage disposal be installed in any premises served by the UWTS.
   (D)   No user shall discharge into the UWTS any solid or viscous substances
in quantities of or such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in
sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the treatment system.
   (E)   No user shall discharge any water or waste containing fats, wax,
grease, or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 50 mg/l or containing
substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and
150°F (0° and 65°C).
(Ord. 134, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.10 COST OF REPAIRS.
   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any user the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
actions by any user, including discharge of excessive flows or prohibited
wastes, and may collect the assessment as an additional charge for the use of
the system in the manner provided in §
50.06 or may pursue any other method of collection of the costs it deems
appropriate.
(Ord. 134, passed - -2012)
§ 50.11 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The City Administrator shall be responsible for administration
and enforcement of this chapter and the collection of the user charges as set
forth in this chapter.
      (2)   The City Council shall hear and decide appeals and review any
order, decision, or determination made by the Administrator regarding the
enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The city hereby establishes an Uptown Wastewater Treatment System Fund
into which all revenue collected from users shall be deposited, and from which
all expenditures necessary for the operation and maintenance of the system
shall be paid.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, the violator shall be subject to
a fine, imprisonment, or both, plus the cost of prosecution.
   (D)   (1)   The city reserves the right to disconnect service to any user or
property found to be in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Service shall not be disconnected until notice and an opportunity
for a hearing before the City Council have been provided to the user and to the
owner of the premises involved.
(Ord. 134, passed - -2012)
CHAPTER 51: BIG MARINE SEWER UTILITY
Section
   
51.01   Title
   
51.02   Purpose and intent
   
51.03   Rules and definitions
   
51.04   Calculation of user charges
   
51.05   Accounts
   
51.06   Billing
   
51.07   Delinquent accounts
   
51.08   Connections to the community sewage treatment system
   
51.09   Maintenance responsibility
   
51.10   Prohibited waste discharges
   
51.11   Cost of repairs
   
51.12   Administration and enforcement
§ 51.01 TITLE.
    This chapter shall be known, cited, and referred to as the "Big Marine
Sewer Utility Ordinance", except as referred to herein, where it shall be known
as "this chapter".
(Ord. 202, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 21-04, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 51.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
    The purpose of this chapter is to establish the local regulatory
requirements for the operations, maintenance, administration, use, and
application of user fees of the Big Marine Sewer Utility in accordance with all
applicable laws and to ensure operations are conducted within an
environmentally responsible manner. All fees established by this chapter are
intended to provide for the collection of sufficient revenues for short and
long-term operation and maintenance of the systems within the utility in
accordance with all laws, including those found in this chapter.
(Ord. 202, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 21-04, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 51.03 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)    In the event of conflicting provisions in the text of this chapter,
and/or other ordinances, the more restrictive provisions shall apply. The City
Council shall determine which is more restrictive.
   (B)   Words used in the present tense shall include the past and future
tense; the singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.
   (C)   The word "shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive.
   (D)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCOUNT. A record of periodic costs for sewer service provided to each
property connected served by the Big Marine Sewer Utility.
      ANDERSON-ERICKSON FACILITY. A wastewater system as defined by a formal
service map as adopted and amended, from time to time, by the City Council in
accordance with this chapter, serving the eastern shore of Big Marine Lake that
operates as part of the city's Big Marine Sewer Utility. The facility's
original construction was funded under a federal grant administered by the
state as authorized under § 201 of the US Clean Water Act of 1972.
      BIG MARINE SEWER UTILITY. The utility for which this chapter regulates in
accordance with all other state and federal law.
      BLISS FACILITY. A wastewater system as defined by a formal service map as
adopted and amended, from time-to-time, by the City Council in accordance with
this chapter, serving the western shore of Big Marine Lake that operates as
part of the city's Big Marine Sewer Utility. The facility's original
construction was funded under a federal grant administered by the state as
authorized under § 201 of the US Clean Water Act of 1972.
      CITY. The City of Scandia, Washington County, Minnesota.
      COMMUNITY SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. One of two sewage treatment systems,
the Bliss Sewer Facility and the Anderson-Erickson Sewer Facility, that are
owned and operated by the city.
      INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or creates a hazard in the
treatment system.
      NEW CONNECTION. When an unserved property establishes service to the
utility through a new connection permit or when an existing connected property
increases its capacity to serve a new addition or to replace a home with higher
service capacity than the existing structure.
      SERVICE CAPACITY. A reference to the sizing of septic tanks and service
lines relative to the number of bedrooms of a structure and the amount of
wastewater treatment capacity related to the increased processing need.
      SUFFICIENT CAPACITY. A minimum available capacity of 10% of the permitted
flows for the facility. Flow evaluation shall be based on a minimum of 12
months of flow data.
      UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE. Sewage infrastructure from the septic holding
tank(s) on the property served to the wastewater treatment facility for which
ownership, operation, and maintenance is maintained by the city.
      USER. A residential dwelling or other establishment connected to the
community sewage treatment system, including and extending to the owners and
occupants thereof.
(Ord. 202, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 209, passed 2-19-2019; Ord. 21-04, passed
11-16-2021)
§ 51.04 CALCULATION OF USER CHARGES.
   (A)    Prior to the beginning of each calendar year, the City Administrator
shall prepare a proposed budget for operation of the community sewage treatment
system, including all costs for the operation, maintenance, replacement, and
administration of the system. Upon approval of the budget by the City Council,
the amount of user charges needed to balance revenues with expenditures shall
be determined. The user charges shall be apportioned among all the users of the
system in equal amounts, to determine the base user charge for the calendar
year.
   (B)   The base user charge may be subject to an energy charge adjustment. A
user who supplies power from the user's home electrical connection to a shared
lift station may be entitled to a deduction from the base user charge. Users
who do not supply power from the user's home electrical connection to any lift
station, but who share a lift station to which another user supplies electrical
power, may be subject to an increase in the base user charge.
   (C)   An additional fee shall be charged to users of the community sewage
treatment system who, for whatever reason, require septic tank pumping more
frequently than once in two years. The surcharge for the frequent pumping shall
be at the same rate, either per tank or per gallon, as established by contract
for the routine pumping of each septic tank on the community sewage treatment
system.
   (D)   A schedule of user charges and other fees shall be adopted from time
to time by ordinance of the City Council.
(Ord. 202, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 21-04, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 51.05 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)    All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner of the
property, at the mailing address to which property tax bills are sent by the
county, unless a written request for an alternative billing address is
submitted to the city by the owner.
   (B)   The owner shall be liable for the sewer service supplied to the
property, whether he or she is occupying the property or not, and any unpaid
charges shall be a lien upon the property.
(Ord. 202, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 21-04, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 51.06 BILLING.
   (A)    Bills shall be mailed for each account on or before March 5, June 5,
September 5 and December 5 of each year and specify the charges in accordance
with the current fee schedule set by ordinance of the City Council.
   (B)   All charges shall be due upon receipt and considered delinquent after
the fifth day of the following month.
(Ord. 202, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 21-04, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 51.07 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)    Late payment penalties shall be assessed on all delinquent accounts
in accordance with the fee schedule set by ordinance of the City Council.
   (B)   Partial payments on delinquent accounts shall first be applied to any
penalties and then to user charges.
   (C)   All delinquent accounts as of October 15 of each year shall be
certified to the County Auditor for collection with taxes in the following
year, according to the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice shall be sent to each account holder by first class mail of
the delinquent charges not less than ten days prior to the date of a City
Council hearing to consider the charges proposed to be certified for collection
with property taxes.
      (2)   The notice shall state that if payment is not made before the date
for certification, the entire amount plus penalties will be certified to the
County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected.
      (3)   A hearing shall be held by the City Council at its first meeting
during the month of November. Property owners with unpaid accounts shall have
the opportunity to object to the certification of unpaid charges to be
collected as taxes are collected. If, after the hearing, the City Council finds
that the amounts claimed as delinquent are actually due and unpaid, and there
is no legal reason why the unpaid charges should not be certified for
collection with taxes in accordance with this chapter, the city may certify the
unpaid charges to the County Auditor for collection as other taxes are
collected.
      (4)   For each certification sustained, the property owner shall have the
following options after the hearing:
         (a)   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary
assessment roll, but without additional interest after the hearing, within ten
days of the hearing date; or
         (b)   To pay the certified charges as billed to the property owner by
the county on the owner's property tax statement with a collection term of one
year.
      (5)   Fifteen days after the hearing, the certified roll, minus any
payments, shall be delivered to the county.
(Ord. 202, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 21-04, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 51.08 CONNECTIONS TO THE COMMUNITY SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)    Properties that are situated within the official service areas of the
Big Marine Sewer Utility and currently receive service from said utility shall
be required to maintain services with this utility. Such service areas shall be
identified and adopted by the City Council from time to time, for the Bliss
Facility and the Anderson-Erickson Facility subject to provisions within this
chapter. Only properties identified within these service maps may be served by
this utility and not yet currently served by the Big Marine Sewer Utility shall
also be subject sufficient capacity limits set forth in this code. Properties
that meet city development code requirements specified in Ch. 153 of this code,
but are unable to be served by the Big Marine Sewer Utility, may by special
permit from the City Council obtain a permit for a private on-site septic
system should adequate space and design requirements be met under both this
city code and Washington County ordinance.
   (B)   Service area maps. The City Council shall adopt service area maps for
the Bliss Facility and the Anderson-Erickson Facilities for the utility as of
the publication of this amendment. Properties eligible for inclusion include:
      (1)   All properties currently served by one of the utility's two
facilities.
      (2)   Parcels that meet all four for the following criteria:
         (a)   Said parcel meets all development minimum standards as specified
within the city development regulations found in
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances;
         (b)   The property owner of the parcel can demonstrate with a report
from a state licensed septic system designer, consistent with Minn. Rules part
7080, that no appropriate sites for a system can be sited within the property
consistent with city and county regulations;
         (c)   That the city deems that inclusion of said property will not
hinder the sewer system's sufficient capacity; and
         (d)   The inclusion of said property to the community wastewater
system is deemed in the interest of the environmental well-being of Big Marine
Lake or other adjacent water sources.
   (C)   New connections. New connections to the community sewage treatment
system shall be prohibited unless sufficient capacity is available in all
downstream facilities and the property is identified within official service
area maps for a facility within this utility.
      (1)   Anderson-Erickson Facility. For the Anderson-Erickson Facility,
sufficient capacity is available if the peak flow as measured over the peak
three day period is less than 90% of the 6,700 gallon per day system design
flow and the peak flow as measured on a monthly basis is less than 90% of the
target monthly limit of 5,300 gallons per day.
      (2)   Bliss Facility. For the Bliss Facility, sufficient capacity is
available if the peak flow as measured on a monthly basis is less than 90% of
14,800 gallons per day. Nineteen thousand, eight hundred gallons per day is the
permitted flow less 5,000 gallons per day of reserve capacity.
   (D)   New connections to the community sewage system shall be prohibited if
the system is within 10% of the permit limits of non-flow sampling
requirements. The city may also impose new connection moratoriums if a facility
is at risk of or has exceeded its sufficient capacity.
   (E)   Connections shall be limited to residential users only and to
properties identified within adopted service area maps.
   (F)   Alterations made or proposed that increase user capacity shall be
treated as a new connection under this chapter and as such shall be subject to
the provisions of §
51.08(D).
   (G)   Any property owner requesting a utility must first apply for a permit
with the city that includes a survey, or site plan, as determined by the City
Administrator and an analysis from a Minn. Rules part 7080 (2011) licensed
onsite sewage treatment system designer documenting the size and location of
tanks, piping, and the specifications of pumps to be installed on the property
consistent with city design specifications and the Washington County Individual
Sewage Treatment System Code.
   (H)   No person shall uncover, make any connection with, or opening into, or
use, alter, or disturb any portion of the system or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city. Further, it shall be a
violation for any user upon whose property any portion of the system is located
to allow any unauthorized access, use, alteration, or disturbance of any
portion of the system or appurtenance thereof on the user's property.
   (I)   All sewer connections shall conform to applicable requirements of the
State Building and Plumbing Code and all applicable rules and regulations of
the city or county. All connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight,
and verified by proper testing to prevent the infusion of infiltration/inflow.
Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials shall be approved
prior to installation. The connection and inspection shall be made under the
supervision of the city building official or his or her designee.
   (J)   All new connections to the system after the effective date of this
chapter shall have their own septic tank and pump tank. The sharing of septic
tanks among neighboring properties is strictly prohibited. If a dwelling
currently sharing a septic tank applies for a permit that involves any material
improvements that increase the flow, the property owner will be required to
install a separate septic tank unless it can be proven that a non-economic
hardship exists, in which case the property owner may apply to the City Council
for an exemption from this requirement.
   (K)   New users connecting to the system shall pay to the city a sewer
connection fee in accordance with the current fee schedule set by ordinance of
the City Council. In addition to the connection fee, the new user is
responsible for all of the costs associated with hooking up to the community
sewage treatment system, including, but not limited to, the septic tank, pumps,
wet wells, control panels, sewer laterals, road repair related to the
installation of the new equipment, and any costs incurred by the city in the
use of engineers or other third-party consultants.
   (L)   By accepting utility service each user shall allow the city access to
inspect any portion of the community sewage treatment system and any connection
to the system, including (without limitation) portions of the system and
connections accessible from the interior of any structure. Interior inspections
shall be conducted during normal business hours of the city and the city shall
provide the customer with at least 48 hours of notice before an inspection is
to take place. Notice under this section shall be effective upon mailing and
shall be mailed to the customer or owner at the address file with the utility.
Failure to cooperate with the city's reasonable request for access shall be a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 202, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 209, passed 2-19-2019; Ord. 21-04, passed
11-16-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to maintain the
service line from the septic holding tank into the house or building. It shall
be the responsibility of the city to maintain the part of the system from
septic tank to the service main. The contractor hired by the owner to repair
the wastewater service line on the property owner's side of the system shall
follow the all requirements of this section relating to new construction which
are applicable to maintenance work, including obtaining a permit from the city.
   (B)   If the city identifies an improper condition of or unauthorized
connection to any part of the community sewage treatment system located on a
user's property, the city shall notify the user in writing and specify the
maintenance or repair required. If the user fails to cause the specified
maintenance or repair to be properly performed, and evidence of the same is not
provided to the city within three days of the notice, the city may cause the
specified maintenance or repair to be performed and may charge the user for the
cost of the same, which cost shall be considered a cost of repairs under §
51.11.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 51.10 PROHIBITED WASTE DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No user shall make or maintain connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, surface runoff, or groundwater to a building sewer or
indirectly into the community sewage treatment system.
   (B)   No user shall discharge into the community sewage treatment system any
incompatible waste as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   No user shall discharge into the sewage system any wastewater having a
strength greater than that primarily produced by residential user, defined as
having a biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) concentration of approximately 200
mg/l and suspended solids concentration of approximately 225 mg/l.
(Ord. 202, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 21-04, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 51.11 COST OF REPAIRS.
   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any user the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
any act or omission in violation of this chapter by the user or upon the user's
property, and may collect the assessment as an additional charge for the use of
the system or may pursue any other method of collection of the costs the city
deems appropriate.
(Ord. 202, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 21-04, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 51.12 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Administrator, or his or her designee, shall be responsible
for administration and enforcement of this chapter and the collection of the
user charges as set forth in this chapter. The City Council shall hear and
decide appeals and review any order, decision, or determination made by the
Administrator regarding the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The city hereby establishes Big Marine Sewer Fund into which all
revenue collected from users shall be deposited, and from which all
expenditures necessary for the operation and maintenance of the system shall be
paid.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, the violator shall be subject to
a fine, imprisonment, or both, plus the cost of prosecution.
   (D)   The city reserves the right to disconnect service to any user found to
be in violation of this chapter. Service shall not be disconnected until notice
and an opportunity for a hearing before the City Council have been provided to
the occupant and to the owner of the premises involved.
(Ord. 202, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 21-04, passed 11-16-2021)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
Section
   
52.01   Purpose, scope, and authority
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Collection by the city; city rights and duties
   
52.04   Collection and transportation requirement
   
52.05   Carts
   
52.06   Cart damage; prohibited
   
52.07   Cart placement and time of day
   
52.08   Recycling
   
52.09   Preparation
   
52.10   Rates, fees, and collection of charges
   
52.11   Required collection of mixed municipal solid waste
   
52.12   Inspection
   
52.13   City/county license review
   
52.14   Hours of operation
   
52.15   Scavenging
   
52.16   Contracted haulers
   
52.17   Contract violation
   
52.18   Backyard compost sites
   
52.19   Liquidated damages
   
52.20   Burying and burning prohibited
   
52.21   Land application of wastes; license required
   
52.22   Reporting
   
52.23   Illegal dumping; unauthorized dumping
   
52.24   Unlicensed open dumps
   
52.25   Solid waste disposal prohibition
   
52.26   Enforcement
   
52.27   Depositing waste into public property
   
52.28   Abandonment and storage of bulky waste
   
52.29   Throwing litter from vehicles
   
52.30   Additional requirements and provisions
§ 52.01 PURPOSE, SCOPE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter furthers the city’s goal to improve solid waste
management, achieve a reduction in waste generated, and to serve these
additional purposes:
      (1)   To protect the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and
general welfare of the residents of the city.
      (2)   Encourage the separation and recovery of materials and energy from
waste.
      (3)   To establish powers, duties, rules, regulations, and standards for
the removal of solid waste from the city.
      (4)   Promote best management practices in solid waste management to
protect air quality, water quality, and natural resources.
      (5)   Provide high quality solid waste and recycling services in the most
cost-effective manner possible.
      (6)   To promote programs and recommend policies to reduce waste and
promote yard waste reduction through separation of recyclables and yard and
garden wastes; and encourage the purchasing of products that are most durable
or contain recycled or recyclable materials.
      (7)   To meet minimum standards and requirements established by rules of
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency regarding solid waste.
      (8)   To assure that the city complies with the city’s current
comprehensive plan, the current Washington County Solid Waste Management Master
Plan, and any updates to those plans approved by the city or the county.
      (9)   To provide for the administration of the chapter. The city has
authority to enact ordinances for these purposes under M.S. § 412.221, subd.
22, which requires the City Council to provide for or regulate the disposal of
garbage, recycling and other solid waste.
   (B)   Furthermore, this chapter is intended to protect, support and promote
the health, welfare and safety of the public pursuant to M.S. Chapters 115A,
145A, 375, 400, and 473. This chapter is subject to change as necessary to
reflect updated State of Minnesota statutes.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the terms set forth in this section, this chapter
incorporates by reference terms defined in the Waste Management Act, M.S. §
155A.01 et seq. For the purpose of this chapter, the words “shall” and “must”
are interpreted as mandatory and the words “should” and “may” are permissive.
The terms used herein shall have the following meaning:
   ACCEPTABLE HOUSEHOLD QUANTITIES. Waste that is otherwise unacceptable waste,
but is contained in garbage, refuse, and municipal solid waste from household
activities. For the purpose of this definition, “household” includes any
residential dwelling unit or place of transient residence.
   ACCEPTABLE NON-HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Waste that is otherwise unacceptable waste,
but which is contained in garbage, refuse, and municipal solid waste generated
from commercial, industrial, or community activities, where the quantity of
such unacceptable waste contained in any load delivered to the designated
facility does not constitute a significant portion of such load. No amount of
hazardous waste that is regulated by law is acceptable waste.
   ACCEPTABLE WASTE. Waste that is acceptable at the designated facility.
ACCEPTABLE WASTE shall include garbage, refuse, and other municipal solid waste
from residential, commercial, industrial and community activities that is
generated and collected in aggregate and that is not otherwise defined herein
as unacceptable waste. No amount of hazardous waste or infectious waste, which
is regulated by law, is acceptable at the designated facility. ACCEPTABLE WASTE
shall also include “acceptable household quantities” and “acceptable non-
household waste”, as defined herein. All household waste is ACCEPTABLE WASTE
unless it is otherwise regulated or prohibited by law.
   AIR CONTAMINANT. The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of any dust, fume,
mist, smoke, vapor, gas or other gaseous fluid, or particular substance,
differing in composition from or exceeding in concentration the natural
components of the atmosphere.
   BACKYARD COMPOST SITE. A site used to compost food scraps, garden wastes,
weeds, lawn cuttings, leaves, and pruning’s from a residential property, multi-
unit dwelling, or a commercial office, by an owner, occupant, or lessee of the
property.
   BULK WASTE or BULKY WASTE. Furniture, large toys, bicycles, lawn mowers,
lawn chairs, carpet and other solid waste with weights or volumes greater than
those allowed for bags or carts. BULK WASTE does not include construction
debris, hazardous waste or consumer electronics. (Examples: doors, windows,
mattresses, etc.)
   CART or CURBSIDE CART. Containers for MMSW or, recyclables equipped with
wheels and a lid in the following standardized sizes (approximate capacities):
      (1)   Small: 35 gallon
      (2)   Medium: 64 gallon
      (3)   Large: 96 gallon
   CITY. City of Scandia, Minnesota.
   CITY COUNCIL. The elected government representatives for the city,
consisting of the Mayor and Council Members.
   COLLECTION. The aggregation and transportation of solid waste from the place
at which it is generated and includes all activities up to the time when it is
delivered to a processing facility.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any premises upon which a commercial or industrial
enterprise of any kind is carried on, including restaurants, clubs, and
churches and, for purposes of solid waste licensing, multiple unit residential
dwellings.
   COMPOST. The product resulting from the controlled biological decomposition
of organic material that has been sanitized through the generation of heat and
stabilized to the point that it is beneficial to plant growth and can be used
as a soil amendment without further processing.
   CONSUMER ELECTRONICS. Any discarded device generated in a residential unit
with a circuit board, including (but not limited to): televisions, computers,
laptops, tablets, computer moniters, peripherals (e.g. keyboard, printer,
mouse, etc.), cell phones, PDAs, DVD recorders/players and video cassette
recorders/players, and fax machines.
   CONTRACTOR. The city’s current solid waste and recycling contractor.
   COUNTIES. The counties participating in the Regional Hauler Licensing
Program and include: Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Hennepin, Ramsey, Scott and
Washington counties.
   COUNTY. Washington County.
   COUNTY BOARD. The Washington County Board of Commissioners.
   CURB or CURBSIDE. That portion of the right-of-way adjacent to paved or
traveled roadways, including alleys.
   DESIGNATED FACILITY. The Ramsey/Washington County Recycling and Energy
Center (R and E Center), currently located at 100 Red Rock Road in Newport, MN
55055, to which acceptable waste is required to be delivered.
   DISPOSAL FACILITY. A waste facility licensed by Washington County that is
designed and operated for the purpose of disposing of waste on or in the land,
together with any appurtenant facilities needed to process waste for disposal
or transfer to another waste facility.
   EXCESS HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Normal household waste that exceeds the capacity of
the resident’s cart and is subject to a special fee for pick up.
   FACILITY. All contiguous land, structures, monitoring devices, and other
improvements on the land used for monitoring, treating, storing, or disposing
of solid waste, leachate or residuals from solid waste processing.
   FOOD SCRAPS. Discarded organized waste from unused food or food residue.
   GENERATE. The act or process of producing waste, including the production or
aggregation of waste occurring at intermediate, transfer, processing or
disposal facilities.
   GENERATOR. Any person who generates compostable, recyclable, or solid waste
material(s).
   HAULER. Any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership, or other
entity that collects or transports MMSW that is generated in the counties.
HAULER does not mean a person hauling his or her own residential household
waste.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Defined in state statute, state rules, and county
ordinance. Wastes are hazardous in Minnesota when they display one or more of
these characteristics: ignitability, corrosively, reactivity, toxicity, or
lethality or are an oxidizer. These materials are not acceptable at curbside
solid waste collection.
   HOLIDAYS. Any of the following:
      (1)   New Year’s Day;
      (2)   Memorial Day;
      (3)   Independence Day;
      (4)   Labor Day;
      (5)   Thanksgiving Day; and
      (6)   Christmas Day.
   INCINERATION. The process by which materials are burned for the purpose of
volume and/or weight reduction in facilities designed for such use.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Laboratory waste, blood, regulated body fluids, sharps,
and research animal waste that have not been decontaminated.
   LANDSPREADING/LAND APPLICATION. The placement of waste or waste by-products
on or incorporated into the soil surface.
   LANDSPREADING/LAND APPLICATION SITE. Any land used for the purpose of
landspreading or the land application of waste or waste by-products.
   LEACHATE. Liquid that has percolated through solid waste and has extracted,
dissolved, or suspended materials from it.
   LICENSEE. The landowner, owner, operator, or other person or persons given
authority by Washington County to establish, operate, and maintain a solid
waste management activity, disposal site or facility.
   MAJOR APPLIANCES. Not limited to clothes washers and dryers, dishwashers,
water heaters, heat pumps, furnaces, garbage disposal, trash compactors,
conventional and microwave ovens, ranges and stoves, air conditioners,
dehumidifies, refrigerators, and freezers.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Includes infectious waste and waste originating from the
diagnosis, care or treatment of a person or animal, or waste resulting from
biological research, whether or not the waste has been decontaminated.
   MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE (“MSW” OR “MMSW”). Defined in accordance with
M.S. §§ 155A.01 - 115A.03, including garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash from
residential and community activities that the generator of the waste aggregates
for collection. MMSW does not include auto hulks, street sweepings, ash,
construction debris, tree and agricultural wastes, tires, lead acid batteries,
motor and vehicle fluids, filters, and hazardous waste and other materials
collected, processed, and disposed of as separate waste streams. Also referred
to in this chapter as “solid waste.”
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   MULTIPLE UNIT RESIDENCE (MUR). Any building consisting of more than four
units, each with individual kitchen facilities.
   NORMAL HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Mixed municipal solid waste typically generated by
residential households.
   OPEN DUMP. A land disposal site at which solid waste is disposed of in a
manner that does not protect the environment, is susceptible to open burning
and is exposed to the elements, flies, rodents, and scavengers.
   OPERATOR. Person or persons responsible for the operation of a solid waste
faciltiy.
   ORDINANCE. The City of Scandia Municipal Solid Waste and Recycling
Ordinance.
   PERSON. Any human being, any municipality or other governmental or political
subdivision or other public agency, any public or private corporation, any
partnership, firm, association, or other organization, any receiver, trustee,
assignee, agent, or other legal representative of any of the foregoing, or any
other legal entity and with respect to acts prohibited or required herein,
shall include employees or licensees.
   PROCESSING. The treatment of solid waste after collection, including all
activities after the time the waste is delivered to a waste facility.
PROCESSING includes but is not limited to disposal, storage, containment,
separation, exchange, resource recovery, physical or chemical modification, and
transfer from one waste facility to another. For the purpose of requirements
for resource recovery certification, PROCESSING shall not include storage,
exchange or transfer of waste.
   PROCESSING CENTER or PROCESSING FACILITY. A facility in which solid waste
and recyclable materials are processed. The facility will conform to all
applicable rules, regulations, and laws of state, local or other jurisdictions.
   PROHIBITED MATERIALS. Solid waste that is unacceptable for collection,
processing, or disposal due to the physical or chemical nature of the material
or due to a facility’s inability to properly manage the waste.
   PROPERTY OWNER. A person who legally owns a residential property, multi-unit
residence, or a commercial office.
   R AND E BOARD. The Ramsey/Washington Recycling and Energy Board, a joint
powers board comprised of the Ramsey and Washington counties.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials that are separated from MMSW for the purpose
of recycling, which materials will be identified by the city’s Solid Waste
Contractor and list of recyclable material provided to customers and updated on
a regular basis as marketplace changes for recyclables.
   RECYCLING. The process of collecting and preparing recyclable materials for
the purpose of reusing the materials in their original form or using them in
manufacturing processes that do not cause the destruction of recyclable
materials in a manner that precludes further use.
   RECYCLING FACILITY. A facility where recyclable materials are received and
prepared for reuse in their original form or for use in manufacturing processes
that do not cause the destruction of the materials in a manner that precludes
further use. The recyclable materials must:
      (1)   Fit the definition of MMSW prior to separation for recycling.
      (2)   Not include items that have been prohibited by state law from
disposal or placement in MMSW, unless approved by the agency;
      (3)   Have been separated from other MMSW by the generator prior to
collection; and
      (4)   Not be hazardous as defined in Minn. Rules Ch. 7045, as amended,
except for household hazardous waste. Recyclable materials that are defined as
household hazardous waste in part Minn. Rules pt. 7045.0131, subpart 1, and
M.S. § 115A.96 subds. 1(a) and 1(b), as amended, may be accepted at the
facility for recycling if they are managed in accordance with Minn. Rules part
7045.0310.
   REGIONAL HAULER LICENSING BOARD. The joint powers board established by
agreement of the counties for the coordination of solid waste management issues
in the metropolitan area.
   REGIONAL HAULER LICENSING PROGRAM. The hauler licensing program established
by joint powers agreement, among Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Hennepin, Ramsey, Scott
and Washington Counties.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT (RDU). Single dwellings and up to four multi-unit
residences including residential manufactured homes and businesses operating
out of a residence.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY. The reclamation for sale, use, or reuse of materials,
substances, energy or other products contained within or derived from waste.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY. A waste and recycling facility contracted by
and/or operated by the Ramsey/Washington Recycling and Energy Board (R and E
Board) in which solid wastes are processed.
   ROLL-OFF CONTAINER, ROLL-OFF CONTAINER SERVICE. An open top dumpster
characterized by a rectangular footprint, utilizing wheels to facilitate
rolling the dumpster in place. The container is designed to be transported by
special roll-off trucks. Roll-offs are commonly used to contain loads of
construction and demolition waste or other waste types.
   SALVAGING. The controlled and authorized removal of waste materials from a
licensed solid waste facility.
   SCAVENGING. The removal of waste materials from a licensed solid waste
facility, which has not been authorized by the city.
   SELF-HAULER. Anyone who transports their own waste, or another person’s, to
a waste management facility and isn’t paid for doing so.
   SENIOR or ADJUSTED ACCOUNTS. Units where not more than two people reside
within a household and where the head of household is 62 years of age or older
or has a temporary disability reasonably projected to last greater than 30 days
or permanent disability, regardless of age. In order to qualify for this
program, the resident must be physically unable to wheel their cart to the curb
for collection and have no other person who can assist them, such as a spouse
or other live-in family member or a personal assistant. Place the carts within
a reasonable distance of approximately 75 feet from the edge of the roadway.
   SHRUB. A perennial woody plant of relatively low stature, typically with
several stems arising from or near the ground and less than four inches in
diameter.
   SITE. The spatial location of a proposed or actual solid waste management
activity or facility.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semisolid, or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air contaminant treatment facility, or any waste having similar
characteristics and effects.
   SOLID WASTE. The meaning set forth in M.S. § 116.06, as amended, and
includes MMSW.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION. The gathering of solid waste from public or private
places.
   SOLID WASTE FACILITY. All property, real or personal, including easements
and water and air rights, which is or may be used for the processing or
disposal of solid waste. A license is required under the provisions of this
chapter for all solid waste facilities, except property used for the collection
of the solid waste at the generation site and property used primarily for the
manufacture of scrap metal or paper. A SOLID WASTE FACILITY includes but is not
limited to transfer stations, solid waste facilities related to processing, and
disposal facilities.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. Activities that are intended to affect or control
the generation of solid waste and activities that provide for or control the
collection, processing, and disposal of waste.
   SOURCE SEPARATION. The separation of recyclable materials from waste by the
generator prior to collection for recycling.
   TREE. A perennial woody plant, generally with a single stem (trunk) greater
than four inches in diameter.
   UNACCEPTABLE WASTE. Solid waste that is not acceptable at the designated
facility. UNACCEPTABLE WASTE shall include waste that would likely pose a
threat to health or safety, or that may cause damage to, or materially
adversely affect the operation of the designated facility including but not
limited to: explosives; medical waste; commercial, industrial and community
hazardous waste, as regulated by federal, state and local law; chemicals and
radioactive materials; oil sludges, asbestos in identifiable quantities;
cesspool, domestic sewage or other sewage sludge; human or animal remains;
street sweepings; ash; mining waste; sludges; demolition waste; construction
debris; waste in liquid state; hazardous refuse of any kind, such as cleaning
fluids, used crank case oils, cutting oils, paints, acids, caustics, poisons,
drugs; and any other materials that the designated facility identifies; or that
MPCA or any other governmental unit having appropriate jurisdiction shall
determine, is harmful or of a toxic or dangerous nature.
   WASTE FACILITY. All property, real or personal, including negative and
positive easements and water and air rights, that is or may be needed or useful
for the processing or disposal of waste, except property for the collection of
the waste and property used primarily for the manufacture of scrap metal or
paper. WASTE FACILITY includes but is not limited to a transfer station,
processing facility, and disposal facility.
   YARD WASTE. Garden wastes, twigs and miscellaneous tree seeds and cones,
leaves, lawn cuttings, weeds, shrub and brush waste.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.03 COLLECTION BY THE CITY; CITY RIGHTS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Subject to the requirements set forth by City Code, all solid waste,
MMSW, or recycling materials (hereinafter collectively referred to as “solid
waste”) accumulated in or at residential dwelling units in the city shall be
collected, conveyed and disposed of by the city, by its duly authorized
contractor, a county licensed hauler, or self-haulers. The city shall have the
right and duty to administer this chapter.
   (B)   Commercial establishments and/or properties, excluding multi-unit
residences, that generate less than 60 gallons of trash per week may self-haul.
Multi-unit residence properties shall provide hauling services through a county
license hauler.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect solid waste from any
person for a fee or other charge or under contract within the city without
having first secured a license from the county. This chapter requires that
appropriate licenses be obtained from Washington County for the establishment
and operation of solid waste management activities and facilities. The city
shall have the right and duty to approve and consider all license applications
submitted to the county for operation of all solid waste management activities,
sites, or facilities, and hauling services within the city.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.04 COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION REQUIREMENT.
   Solid waste shall be collected and transported in a nuisance free manner
consistent with the intent of this chapter. For single- and two-family
dwellings, including residential manufactured homes and businesses operating
out of a residence, the city shall select and contract with a contractor for
the collection of MMSW. Residential services will be outlined in the contract
between the city and the selected contractor.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.05 CARTS.
   (A)   Carts or curbside carts will be provided to single-family and two-
family dwelling residences. The contractor shall furnish and deliver carts for
MMSW in small, medium, and large sizes to residential dwellings. Residents
shall be allowed to choose the number and size of the carts for their residence
and will be billed according to the Rate Schedule as established by resolution
of the City Council. Carts will remain the property of the contractor.
Additional carts can be requested at the expense of the residential dwelling
unit owner. Recycling carts and dumpsters are owned by the contracted hauler.
All Scandia residents are able to request up to two recycling carts.
   (B)   Additional trash may be placed for pickup in sealed black bags.
   (C)   It is the property owner’s responsibility to clean any litter
resulting from disturbed bagged trash.
   (D)   All commercial establishments that sell food, packaged food, or
beverages are required to have a garbage container located within ten feet of
every public entrance and exit. The garbage container must meet all other
applicable city codes. Failure to provide a garbage container will be
punishable by a fine per Ch. 32 of this code. Each day the litter container is
not present is a separate violation.
   (E)   No trash, recycling, debris, or construction materials can extend
beyond the height and width of the dumpster; all items must be contained within
the dumpster. Dumpsters in a residential area are limited to two weeks unless
required per Ch. 13 of this code. An extension may be granted if the property
owner submits a written request to the Director of Public Works. An extension
will be up to the discretion of the city.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.06 CART DAMAGE; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, occupant or members of their families,
or the hauler employed by the city to damage, remove, deface, destroy or
disturb trash carts, recycling carts, bins and/or dumpsters.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.07 CART PLACEMENT AND TIME OF DAY.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of all persons occupying or controlling any
residence to place garbage and/or recycling carts at the curb or alley for
collection. Carts shall not be stored in the front yard or on a front porch. If
carts are stored outside, they shall be secured and maintained in a stationary
manner. Carts shall not be set out for garbage and/or recycling pickup earlier
than 3:00 p.m. on the day preceding garbage and/or recycling pickup. Carts
shall be retrieved and returned to the premises 24 hours after collection. In
multiple-unit residences of less than five units, it is the responsibility of
the owner to place and retrieve containers within the same guidelines provided
for residential dwelling units. The owner of a multiple-unit residence
consisting of three or more dwelling units or a commercial building shall
provide and maintain a tightly covered or sealed dumpster for all garbage.
Exceptions to this requirement can be granted, in writing, through and by the
Scandia Director of Public Works; it is the responsibility of the property
owner to keep a true and correct copy of the authorized written exception on
record and provide upon request by the city.
   (B)   All properties not identified immediately above are required to have a
dumpster and must provide screening per the following standards:
      (1)   All dumpster areas used to store trash or recyclable materials
shall, whenever possible be located on the side or rear of the building and
shall be effectively screened from view from residential properties or public
rights-of-way.
      (2)   Dumpsters visible from the public way or from residentially zoned
property shall be screened on all sides, with a minimum height of six feet and
a maximum height of seven feet.
      (3)   Screening shall be comprised of material that matches or
compliments the building material of the principal structure. The Development
Review Board shall have the authority to determine compliance with this
requirement. In no case shall chain-link or wire material be permitted.
      (4)   Existing noncompliant screening shall be allowed to remain until it
is replaced, damaged beyond 50% of construction value, or the parcel is
redeveloped.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.08 RECYCLING.
   (A)   The city's contracted hauler is required to pick up recyclable
materials at every residential dwelling that secures a recycling cart. The City
Council, by resolution approving the contractor, establishes recyclable
materials as stated in Washington County Recyclable Standard List. In the event
the city, county or state changes the list of recyclable materials, the city's
contracted hauler shall begin collection of any additional recyclable materials
not listed within 30 days of the adoption of the resolution unless written
approval is obtained from the city.
   (B)   Hauler shall provide single-sort recycling services to all properties.
Hauler shall provide each new customer with detailed instructions on how to
prepare recyclables for collection. Hauler must notify customers at least 30
days in advance before changing their recycling collection system and provide
detailed instructions on how to prepare recyclables under the system. Hauler
shall also notify customers at least once each year of proper recyclables
preparation for collection, including the list of recyclable materials as
defined in the Washington County Recyclable Standard List.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.09 PREPARATION.
   Hauler shall not landfill or incinerate any recyclable materials collected,
nor sell, trade or give materials to any person or business for the purpose of
landfilling or incinerating said materials without the prior written consent of
the city and the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.10 RATES, FEES, AND COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   (A)   Rates, fees, and billings are determined by the contract the city has
with hauler. In all residential dwellings, it shall be the responsibility of
the property owner to contract with the city's hauler to provide for the
collection of the solid waste and recycling materials in accordance with this
chapter. The property owner shall be responsible and liable hereunder whether
or not the said owner occupies or resides in the building and whether or not
said premises is leased or rented to another.
   (B)   In the event a residence desires collection of normal household waste
in excess of the waste held by the resident's container per week, they shall
place the waste in bags not exceeding 30 gallons. Residents shall pay the
contractor an additional charge for each additional 30-gallon bag.
   (C)   Residents who will be continuously absent from the city shall be
entitled to a reduced rate during the period of their absence, provided that
the resident prior notice to the contractor. Notification shall be made by the
resident that they will be absent for more than 90 days. In addition, residents
are permitted to take up to six months of vacation leave in a calendar year in
increments of at least 30 days.
   (D)   Walk-up service may be available for solid waste or recycling
materials, which is applied for on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.11 REQUIRED COLLECTION OF MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE.
   Any commercial property or any other structure in the city, including
churches and halls that generates more than 60 gallons of trash per week shall
have garbage collected by a hauler licensed by the county. All garbage shall be
disposed of in compliance with state law and county policies regarding the
required processing of waste.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.12 INSPECTION.
   The city shall have the right and duty to inspect private property to
determine if the property owner is in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. In its sole discretion, the city may undertake inspections and
evaluations of solid waste management activities, sites, or facilities in such
frequency as the city may determine to ensure consistent compliance by the
operation with the provisions of this chapter, provided that the entrance and
inspection is undertaken after reasonable notice and during normal business
hours, as guided and provided in M.S. Ch. 115A.882, as amended, entitled
"Records; Inspection."
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.13 CITY /COUNTY LICENSE REVIEW.
   The city shall have the right and duty to approve and consider all license
applications submitted to the county for operation of all solid waste
management activities, sites, or facilities, and hauling services within the
county.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.14 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Collection of residential and commercial waste streams must be
respectful of the city's noise ordinance. Collection of residential waste,
recyclables, and yard waste shall not start before 6:00 a.m. or continue after
7:00 p.m. on the evening of the same date (Monday through Friday).
   (B)   Exceptions to collection hours shall be affected only upon the mutual
agreement of the city and hauler. Exceptions may include: holidays, landfill
operations, or when the hauler and city reasonably determine that an exception
is necessary in order to complete collection on an existing collection route
due to unusual circumstances. The city has final decision in all exceptions.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.15 SCAVENGING.
   No person shall scavenge or otherwise collect MSW, recyclables, bulky waste,
SSOM or yard wastes from containers or from public or private property unless
licensed therefore by the city or unless permission of the owner of any such
materials has been given.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.16 CONTRACTED HAULERS.
   Hauler agrees that during the life of the contract, the hauler will not,
within the State of Minnesota, discriminate against any employee or applicant
for employment because of race, color, creed, national origin or ancestry or
sex and will include a similar provision in all subcontracts entered into for
the performance thereof.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.17 CONTRACT VIOLATION.
   The contract may be canceled or terminated by the city and all money due or
to become due may be forfeited for a second or subsequent violation of the
terms or conditions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.18 BACKYARD COMPOST SITES.
   A backyard compost site may be allowed on a private land parcel without a
license under this section. Backyard compost sites must comply with the
following requirements:
   (A)   Size of the compost pile shall not exceed ten cubic yards in size; and
   (B)   Operation of the site shall not create a public nuisance or any
conditions adversely affecting the environment or public health.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.19 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES.
   The City Council may impose an administrative, liquidated damages or revoke
the license of any person found in violation of any applicable statute,
regulation, and provision of this chapter or the City's Solid Waste Standards.
Any proposed revocation shall be preceded by a public hearing, conducted before
the City Council, and preceded by at least 15 days notice of the hearing given
to the licensee. The notice, in addition to setting forth the time and place of
the hearing, shall state the nature of the charges for which revocation shall
be considered. No person granted a license hereunder shall acquire any vested
rights through the license or under this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.20 BURYING AND BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall bury any MMSW, recyclable materials, or other waste
materials within the city and no person shall burn MMSW or other waste
materials except as otherwise expressly permitted elsewhere by City Code or in
an incinerator located within a residence or other building that conforms to
the requirements of the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.21 LAND APPLICATION OF WASTES; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is a violation of this section for any person or company to land
apply solid waste(s) (e.g., water treatment line, petroleum contaminated soils,
and industrial by-products from food and beverage processing or ethanol
production) without prior approval from the city and in accordance with city
procedures. Sewage sludge and solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage
are excluded from the definition of solid waste and are regulated by Minn.
Rules Ch. 7041, M.S. Ch. 115, Washington County Ordinance No. 196, and by 40
CFR Ch, 1, subch. 0, pt. 503.
   (B)   Application for land application of solid waste shall be on forms
provided by the city, not less than 30 days prior to initiation of proposed
land application activities.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.22 REPORTING.
   All approved applicants shall submit, annually, documentation of the amount,
location(s) and type(s) of waste land applied, and other information as
required by the city.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.23 ILLEGAL DUMPING; UNAUTHORIZED DUMPING.
   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to dispose of solid
waste within Scandia at any place except at a site or facility authorized by
this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.24 UNLICENSED OPEN DUMPS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to operate an
open dump. Waste placed in open dumps or illegally disposed of shall be
collected and transported to a licensed waste facility for proper disposal by
the property owner or other person(s) determined by the city to be responsible
for the illegal activity.
   (B)   The responsible party shall submit a closure plan for city review and
shall close the dump in accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   The responsible party shall notify the city at least ten days prior
to commencement of excavation/removal activity at the subject site. A receipt
or other documentation approved by the city which indicates satisfactory and
legal disposal of the subject solid waste shall be submitted to the city no
later than 14 days after disposal.
      (2)   Implementation of a water monitoring program may be required by the
city based on the open dump's potential to adversely affect the public's health
and the environment. Any required water monitoring program shall be conducted
pursuant to MPCA rules, guidelines, procedures, and policies. Plans to protect
the ground and surface water shall be approved by the city prior to
implementation.
      (3)   Surface water must be diverted around and away from the open dump.
      (4)   Remove all containerized liquids, hazardous waste, and other items
specified by the city for proper processing or disposal. Potentially recyclable
materials may be removed for processing or marketing.
      (5)   Establish and maintain final grade between 2% and 25% to promote
surface water run-off without erosion.
      (6)   Establish vegetative cover consisting of shallow rooted perennials
or other suitable vegetation.
   (C)   The owner of the property on which the open dump is located shall
place on record an instrument with the Washington County Recorder, in a form
prescribed by the city, placing the public on notice of the existence and
location of the open dump and of the obligations placed upon parties holding an
interest in the property and the restrictions that may affect the use of the
property.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.25 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person may place, or transport for placement, solid waste that is
generated in the city in a portion of a disposal facility that does not comply
with the minimum requirements for design, construction, and operation of a new
disposal facility for the type of solid waste being disposed. Pursuant to M.S.
§ 473.849, this provision is effective January 1, 1992, for disposal facilities
located outside the metropolitan area and January 1, 1995, for all disposal
facilities regardless of location.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or dispose of MMSW, recyclables, bulky
waste, source-separated organic material (SSOM), yard wastes, or hazardous
wastes in any street, alley, drive, park, playground or other public place, or
upon privately owned property.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.26 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city may engage in any of the following actions in enforcement of this
chapter, individually or collectively:
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Any person within the city who violates this chapter,
except for an activity or at a site or facility for which a license has been
granted, or who shall permit such a violation to exist on the premises under
his control, or who shall fail to take action to abate the existence of the
violation within the specified time period when ordered or notified to do so by
the city, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall
be punished therefore, as provided by law. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Injunctive relief. In the event of a violation or a threat of
violation of this chapter, the city may institute appropriate actions or
proceedings, including requesting injunctive relief to prevent, restrain,
correct, or abate such violations or threatened violations.
   (C)   Civil action or cost as special tax or assessment. If a person fails
to comply with the provisions of this chapter, the city may recover cost
incurred for corrective action in a civil action in any court of competent
jurisdiction and/or the costs may be certified or assessed to the County
Auditor or to the County Recorder's Office as a special tax or assessment
against the real property.
   (D)   Citation. The city may issue citations for violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.27 DEPOSITING WASTE INTO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall sweep or deposit any litter in any public place or public
way except in public containers. Persons owning or occupying property shall
keep the sidewalk and any right-of-way bordering their property free of litter.
Any person convicted of this section shall be punished by a fine per
Ch. 32 of this code.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.28 ABANDONMENT AND STORAGE OF BULKY WASTE.
   No person shall have any abandoned, unattended or discarded refrigerator or
other similar appliance that has an airtight door or lid with a snaplock or
other locking device which may not be released from the inside, on any lot or
in any structure.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.29 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any litter from a vehicle upon any public
place or public place except in public containers. Any person convicted of this
section shall be punished by a fine per
Ch. 32 of this code.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 52.30 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Waivers or modifications. Due to the great variability in the types of
solid wastes and their existing and potential management methods, the city may
waive or modify the strict application of the provisions of this chapter by
reducing or waiving certain requirements when such requirements are unnecessary
or impractical, provided such a waiver or modification will not endanger the
public health, safety, welfare, or the environment. The city may impose
reasonable additional requirements through solid waste management activity or
facility specific license conditions when deemed necessary to protect the
public health, safety, welfare, or the environment.
   (B)   Agency approval. No modification or waiver may be granted if it would
result in noncompliance with Minn. Rules Ch. 7035, unless such modification or
waiver has been granted by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (C)   Promotion of public health, safety, and welfare. Where the conditions
imposed by any provision of this chapter are either more restrictive or less
restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other provisions of this
chapter, or any other applicable law, ordinance, rule, and regulation, the
provision that establishes the higher standards for the promotion and
protection of the public health, safety, and welfare shall prevail.
   (D)   Construction. This chapter shall not be construed to hold the city or
the county or any officer or employee responsible thereof for any damage to
persons or property by reason of the inspection or reinspection authorized
herein provided, or by reason of the approval or disapproval of equipment or
licensing herein, nor for any action in connection with the inspection or
control of solid waste or in connection with any other official duties.
   (E)   No consent. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to be a
consent, license, or permit to locate, construct, operate, or maintain any
solid waste facility, or to carry on any activity.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 12-19-2023)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRICITY
Section
Electrical Inspections
   
53.01   Inspections
   
53.02   Authority to inspect
   
53.03   Adopted by reference
   
53.04   Compliance
   
53.05   Permits and fees
 
   
53.99   Penalty
ELECTRICAL INSPECTIONS
§ 53.01 INSPECTIONS.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish an electrical
inspections program in the city that is administered and enforced by the city,
as permitted in M.S. § 326B.36, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 127, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 53.02 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
   The city shall provide for the inspection of all electrical installations,
pursuant to M.S. § 326B.36, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 127, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 53.03 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The state’s Electrical Act, as adopted by the Commissioner of Labor and
Industry pursuant to M.S. Ch. 326B, §§ 326B.31 to 326B.399, as it may be
amended from time to time, and known as the state’s Electrical Act, is hereby
adopted as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 127, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 53.04 COMPLIANCE.
   All electrical installations shall comply with the requirements of the
state’s Electrical Act, the state’s Building Code, and the ordinances of the
city.
(Ord. 127, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 53.05 PERMITS AND FEES.
   Before commencing any installation of any electrical work regulated by this
subchapter, a permit therefor shall be secured from the Building Department and
the fee for the permit paid. The fee schedule set forth in M.S. § 326B.37, as
it may be amended from time to time, is adopted by reference and incorporated
herein. Permits for the installation of electrical work in new structures shall
only be issued to electrical contractors duly licensed by the state. Permits
for the installation, alteration, addition, or repair of electrical work in
existing structures shall only be issued to electrical contractors duly
licensed by the state or to resident owners of property where the work is to be
done.
(Ord. 127, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished according to law.
The city may also institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent,
restrain, correct, or abate violations or threatened violations of this
chapter.
(Ord. 127, passed 7-19-2011)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   VEHICLE REGULATIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: VEHICLE REGULATIONS
Section
Excessive Vehicle Noise
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Muffler requirement
   
70.03   Excessive noise from brakes
   
70.04   Adoption of state statutes
   
70.05   Signs to inform drivers
   
70.06   Amendments to regulations
Driving Regulations
   
70.20   Unreasonable acceleration
Seasonal Weight Limit Restrictions on Public Streets
   
70.35   Purpose
   
70.36   Procedure
   
70.37   Posting of prohibitions and restrictions
   
70.38   Restrictions with certain exceptions
   
70.39   Special permission for emergencies
 
   
70.99   Penalty
EXCESSIVE VEHICLE NOISE
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. Include:
      (1)   Distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort and repose of any person or
precludes a person’s enjoyment of property or adversely affects a person’s
property values;
      (2)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.69, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires every motor vehicle to be equipped
with a muffler in good working order; or
      (3)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.693 and Minn. Rules
parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as these statutes and rules may be amended
from time to time, which establish motor vehicle noise standards.
   ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE. A dynamic brake, Jake brake, Jacob’s brake, c-brake,
paccar brake, transmission brake, or other similar engine retarding brake
system which alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases that compression.
(Ord. 85, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 70.02 MUFFLER REQUIREMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust or permit the
discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle except through a muffler that
effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and complies with all
applicable state laws and regulations.
(Ord. 85, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 EXCESSIVE NOISE FROM BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to intentionally use an
engine retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot, or alley
within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise from the engine
because of an illegally modified or defective exhaust system, except in an
emergency.
(Ord. 85, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES.
   M.S. §§ 169.69 and 169.693 (motor vehicle noise limits) and Minn. Rules
parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as these statutes and rules may be amended
from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. 85, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 70.05 SIGNS TO INFORM DRIVERS.
   Signs stating “vehicle noise laws enforced” may be installed at locations
deemed appropriate by the City Board to advise motorists of the prohibitions
contained in this subchapter, except that no sign stating “vehicle noise laws
enforced” shall be installed on a state highway without a permit from the
state’s Department of Transportation. The provisions of this subchapter are in
full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
(Ord. 85, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 70.06 AMENDMENTS TO REGULATIONS.
   It is the intention of the City Board that all future amendments to any
statutes and rules referenced or adopted by reference in this subchapter are
also referenced or adopted by reference as if they had been in existence at the
time this subchapter was adopted.
(Ord. 85, passed 6-21-2005)
DRIVING REGULATIONS
§ 70.20 UNREASONABLE ACCELERATION.
   No person shall start or accelerate any motor vehicle with an unnecessary
exhibition of speed on any public or private way within the city, prima facie
evidence of the unnecessary exhibition of speed shall be squealing or
screeching sounds emitted by the tires or the throwing of sand or gravel by the
tires of the vehicle or both.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-19-1975) Penalty, see §
70.99
SEASONAL WEIGHT LIMIT RESTRICTIONS ON PUBLIC STREETS
§ 70.35 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to preserve the public streets
within the city from damage or destruction by trucks or other heavy-laden
vehicles and to reduce the cost and expense to the taxpayers within the city of
street maintenance and repair from damage caused by the traffic. The city
ordains that axle weight limits are restricted on public city streets to
protect these streets from damage when road and weather conditions warrant in
accordance with regulations as provided in M.S. § 169.87, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   These weight restrictions are in effect during the spring thaw season,
but streets may be posted for weight restrictions any time that road and
weather conditions warrant weight limits to protect streets from damage. STREET
and VEHICLE are defined in
Chapter 72, Schedule I.
   (C)   All public city streets are limited to a five-ton per axle weight
limit unless otherwise posted.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 70.36 PROCEDURE.
   The City Engineer and the Public Works Director, or their designees, may
prohibit the operation of vehicles upon any street under the city’s
jurisdiction or impose weight restrictions on vehicles to be operated on the
streets whenever the street, by reason of deterioration, rain, snow, or other
climatic conditions, could be seriously damaged or destroyed.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 70.37 POSTING OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The city follows Minnesota Department of Transportation (MnDOT) scheduling
for imposing and removing spring road weight limit restrictions. As of the
effective date of this subchapter, dates are available at http://
dotapp7.dot.state.rnn.us/research/seasonaljoad limits/sllindex.asp or by
calling (651) 366-5400 or 1-800-723-6543. These dates generally fall between
March 1 and May 15, dependent on weather conditions. This prohibition or
restriction shall also be effective for such other periods as the City
Engineer, Public Works Director, or their designees shall determine are
necessary and appropriate. The city shall cause signs to be erected and
maintained which indicate the prohibition or restriction on the streets in the
manner required by law.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 70.38 RESTRICTIONS WITH CERTAIN EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate, use, or drive a motor
vehicle or any machinery or instrument, pushed, pulled, or driven by a motor
vehicle, upon any posted street in violation of the prohibition or restriction.
   (B)   Exceptions to the seasonal load limits in the city are made for
emergency response vehicles, school buses, and emergency utility repair
vehicles and equipment, as well as for the following.
      (1)   Utilities. An exemption is allowed for utility companies providing
utility service within the city when responding to an emergency. An emergency
response shall include, but is not limited to, power outages, gas leaks,
emergency communication, and lines down or severed.
      (2)   Other services. An exemption to posted weight limits is also
allowed for septic tank service companies, well drilling and service companies,
and companies delivering fuel for heating purposes. An emergency response is
limited to septic or sewer system failures posing an imminent threat to public
health and safety, well failure resulting in loss of water supply, or lack of
heating fuel.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 SPECIAL PERMISSION FOR EMERGENCIES.
   All persons, firms, or corporations requesting an exemption to the posted
weight limits for response to an emergency situation must notify the city’s
Public Works Director. This notification must include a description and
location of the emergency, the number and weight of vehicles responding to the
emergency, and the route to be used to reach the emergency site. The city
reserves the right to request supporting documentation of the nature and
location of the emergency. All persons responding to emergency situations shall
limit travel on seasonal weight restricted streets to the minimum distance
required to reach the site from the closest road that is not subject to
seasonal weight restrictions.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
70.01 to
70.06 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and punished by
a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Any person violating §
70.20 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $300 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-19-1975; Ord. 85, passed 6-21-2005)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Watercraft
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Regulations
   
71.03   Exemptions
   
71.04   Marking
   
71.05   Enforcement
Snowmobiles
   
71.20   Adoption of state statutes
   
71.21   Snowmobiles prohibited on sidewalks
   
71.22   Snowmobiles prohibited in certain parks and playground areas
Skateboards and Roller Skates
   
71.35   Definitions
   
71.36   Use on private property
   
71.37   Use on public property
   
71.38   Negligent operation
   
71.39   Right-of-way
 
   
71.99   Penalty
WATERCRAFT
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BONE LAKE. A body of water given that name and assigned the Lake No. 82-54
by the Department of Natural Resources.
   HIGH WATER. For Bone Lake, shall mean water elevations in excess of 909.1
feet above mean sea level, as reflected by the gauge reading at 238th Street,
east of the boat landing.
   OPERATE. To navigate or otherwise use a watercraft.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, limited liability company,
corporation, or any body of persons, whether incorporated or formed into an
association.
   SLOW-NO WAKE. The operation of a watercraft at the lowest possible speed
necessary to maintain steerage and in no case greater than five mph.
   WATERCRAFT. As defined in M.S. § 86B.005, subd. 18, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 155, passed 11-18-2014)
§ 71.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   During periods of high water, no person shall operate a watercraft at
a greater than a slow-no wake speed within 300 feet of the shoreline of Bone
Lake.
   (B)   Once enacted and upon lake levels falling again below high water, a
three-day waiting period will commence, with the slow-no wake restriction being
removed only if the water remains below the designated levels for the entire
three-day duration. If at any time during the three-day waiting period a high
water condition again exists, a new slow-no wake restriction will begin.
(Ord. 155, passed 11-18-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   Authorized resource management, emergency and enforcement personnel, when
acting in the performance of their duty, shall be exempt from the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 155, passed 11-18-2014)
§ 71.04 MARKING.
   The city shall be responsible for providing public notice, posting
notification at all public accesses, and marking all areas affected by this
subchapter as practicable.
(Ord. 155, passed 11-18-2014)
§ 71.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   The primary responsibility for enforcement of this subchapter shall rest
with the County Sheriff. This, however, shall not preclude enforcement by other
licensed peace officers.
(Ord. 155, passed 11-18-2014)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.20 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES.
   All provisions of M.S. §§ 84.81 through 84.915, as it may be amended from
time to time, together with all rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto,
are hereby incorporated herein and made a part of this subchapter by reference.
(Ord. 68, passed 12-19-2000)
§ 71.21 SNOWMOBILES PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile over and upon
any public sidewalk in the city.
(Ord. 68, passed 12-19-2000) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 SNOWMOBILES PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PARKS AND PLAYGROUND AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile in, over, and
upon any public park or playground in the city which has been posted with signs
prohibiting motorized vehicles.
(Ord. 68, passed 12-19-2000) Penalty, see §
71.99
SKATEBOARDS AND ROLLER SKATES
§ 71.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ROLLER SKATE. A shoe with wheels attached or a device with wheels which is
designed to be attached to a shoe and shall include roller skates, roller
blades, or roller skis.
   SKATEBOARD. A wheeled board or device designed to transport a rider in a
standing position which device is not otherwise secured to a rider’s feet or
shoes.
(Ord. 57, passed 7-16-1996)
§ 71.36 USE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall ride a skateboard or use roller skates on any private
property within the city without the prior permission of the owner or occupant
of the private property.
(Ord. 57, passed 7-16-1996) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 USE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall ride a skateboard or use roller skates on any of the
following public property situated in the city: Fire Department property;
Community Center property; maintenance building property; and tennis courts,
except that skateboard riding and roller skating may be permitted on the
Community Center ice skating facility at such times and with such restrictions
as may from time to time be posted at such facility.
(Ord. 57, passed 7-16-1996) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.38 NEGLIGENT OPERATION.
   No person shall ride a skateboard or use roller skates in the city in any
careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger, or be likely to
endanger the safety of any person or property of any other person. No person
operating a skateboard or roller skates shall attach the same or the person of
the operator to any motor vehicle upon a roadway.
(Ord. 57, passed 7-16-1996) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.39 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The operator of a skateboard or roller skates emerging from an alley,
driveway, or building upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area
extending across any alleyway shall yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians
approaching the sidewalk or sidewalk area and, upon entering the roadway, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Ord. 57, passed 7-16-1996)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any penalty violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of §§
71.01 to
71.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
71.20 to
71.22 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $750 or imprisonment for a term not to
exceed 90 days or both, plus in either case, the cost of prosecution.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
71.35 to
71.39 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more
than $100. In addition, any peace officer who observes any person violating any
of the provisions of §§
71.35 to
71.39 is authorized to seize the offender’s skateboard or roller skates and to
hold the same at the office of the County Sheriff. In the event of a seizure,
the offender, if an adult, may secure the return of the article seized after 24
hours have elapsed since the seizure. In the case of a minor, the article
seized shall be returned only to the parent or guardian of the minor offender
after 24 hours have elapsed since the seizure.
(Ord. 57, passed 7-16-1996; Ord. 68, passed 12-19-2000; Ord. 155, passed 11-18-
2014)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking regulations
SCHEDULE I. PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No parking zones.
      (1)   For the purposes of this chapter, STREET is defined as the entire
strip of land traversed by a highway or road in which the public owns the fee
title or an easement for roadway purposes. VEHICLE means every device in, upon,
or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a
highway, excepting devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to cause,
allow, permit, or suffer any vehicle to be parked on the streets located within
the city in areas designated and posted accordingly as no parking zones.
   (B)   Designated no parking zones. The following streets are designated as
no parking zones and subject to the regulation of this schedule. Additional
streets may be designated by the City Council through an amending ordinance.
185th Street North       An area 300 feet west from Langley Avenue North
                         An area on the north side of the street consisting of
188th Street North       1,400 feet west of Norell Avenue, and an area on the
                         south side of the street consisting of 900 feet west
                         of Norell Avenue
                         An area on the south side from the Soo Line Railroad
205th Street North       tracks to the Log House Landing boat launch parking
                         area
209th Street North       An area on both sides of the street between Olinda
                         Trail and Oakhill Drive
238th Street North       An area on both sides of the street 1,300 feet east
                         from Lofton Avenue North
Lake Lane                An area on both sides of the street from Lofton Court
                         to Bone Lake
Langley Avenue North     From 185th Street North to Langley Court North
Log House Landing        The area on the west side of platted Otis Street
Meadowbrook Avenue North An area on both sides of the street north from State
                         Trunk Highway 97
Mayberry Avenue North    An area 500 feet east and 500 feet west from the
                         Department of Natural Resources boat ramp
Melanie Avenue North     An area on both sides of the street 1,000 feet south
                         from 238th Street North
Norell Avenue            An area on both sides of the street 150 feet south of
                         188th Street North
 
   (C)   Snow and ice removal. Between November 1 and April 30 of each year,
on-street parking shall be permitted in the city if the on-street parking does
not interfere with the removal of snow or ice from city streets. If a parked
vehicle interferes with the removal of snow or ice from a city street, the
vehicle shall immediately be removed from the street by its owner. It shall be
unlawful to park on any city street when on-street parking interferes with the
removal of snow or ice until the snow removal operation is complete on the city
street. If a motor vehicle is determined to be in violation of this section,
the city is authorized to issue a citation and cause the motor vehicle to be
removed at the owner’s expense.
   (D)   Unobstructed width. No person shall stop, park, or leave standing any
vehicle, whether attended or unattended upon the paved or improved or main
traveled part of any street, road, or byway located within the city when it is
practical to stop, park, or so leave a vehicle off the part of the street,
road, or byway, but in every event a clear and unobstructed width of at least
20 feet of the part of the highway opposite the standing vehicle shall be left
for the free passage of other vehicles and a clear view of the stopped vehicle
shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each direction upon the
street.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Recreation vehicles, as defined in Ch. 1, § 4
of the Development Code, may not be parked on any public street for more than a
period of 24 consecutive hours.
   (F)   Parking near mailboxes. No vehicle shall be left standing or parked on
any street of the city within 15 feet of any mailbox, except on a Sunday.
   (G)   Driveways. All new driveways providing ingress and egress to a parcel
that abut a public street maintained by the city shall require a permit. All
the permits shall be evaluated by the city and processed pursuant to the
ordinance codified herein, the Development Code, and the policies provided for
in §
151.46.
   (F)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished
according to law. When any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
street or road, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, the
officer is authorized to provide for the removal of the vehicle at the owner’s
expense.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   PRIVATE GATHERINGS AND EVENTS
      
94.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Identification
   
90.03   Rabies vaccination
   
90.04   Confinement
   
90.05   At large
   
90.06   Public nuisance
   
90.07   Poisoning of animals
   
90.08   Impounding
   
90.09   Records
   
90.10   Redemption
   
90.11   Disposition of unclaimed dogs
   
90.12   Rabies control
   
90.13   Investigation
   
90.14   Regulation of potentially dangerous dogs
   
90.15   Regulation of dangerous dogs
   
90.16   Disposition of seized animals
   
90.17   Restrictions
   
90.18   Bite cases
   
90.19   Exemptions
   
90.20   Destruction of dog in certain circumstances
Farm Animals and Fowl
   
90.35   Number of animals permitted
   
90.36   Location of small animal pins
   
90.37   Variance
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
DOGS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. Any person, firm, agency, or company hired or
appointed by the city to assist and/or enforce this subchapter or any police
officer charged with enforcing this subchapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the City Council for impounding
and caring for all dogs found running at large.
   AT LARGE. A dog shall be termed to be at large when it is not under
“restraint” as defined in this section.
   ATTACK. Any unprovoked, threatening, aggressive behavior of a dog which puts
a reasonable person in fear of immediate bodily harm.
   BITING DOG. Any dog which has bitten, scratched, or caused any other injury
to a human being in a location where, at the time of the attack, the victim was
lawfully conducting himself or herself, including premises owned or controlled
by the owner of the animal if the location is commonly open to the public, such
as a driveway or boulevard, or the victim was on the premises at the express or
implied invitation of the owner of the animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has:
      (1)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human
being on public or private property;
      (2)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the owner’s
property; or
      (3)   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
   GREAT BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which creates a high probability of death,
or which causes serious permanent disfigurement, or which causes a permanent or
protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ or
other serious bodily harm.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons or corporation, firm, or partnership
owning, possessing, keeping, having an interest in, or harboring a dog or dogs.
The HARBORER of a dog shall mean any person who has the care, custody, or
control of any dog or permits the same to be kept on or about his or her
premises.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that:
      (1)   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
      (2)   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a person
on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private property,
other than the dog owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of attack; or
      (3)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and
providing protection from the elements for the dog. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure in
which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
obstacles that prevent the dog from exiting.
   PROVOCATION. An act that an adult could reasonably expect may cause a dog to
attack or bite.
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under restraint within the meaning of this section if it
is controlled by a leash; if it is wearing a remote shock collar controlled by
the owner, if it is under the voice or signal command of a responsible person
whom the dog will immediately obey; if it is within a vehicle being driven or
parked on the public streets; and if it is within the limits of its owner’s
premises.
   STRAY. Any unidentified dog, the owner of which is unknown and which is at
large within the city.
   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which involves a temporary but
substantial disfigurement, or which causes a temporary but substantial loss of
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ, or which causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 90.02 IDENTIFICATION.
   No person shall own, harbor, keep, or have custody of a dog over six months
of age, within this city, without the dog being identified by a device, tag, or
plate attached to the dog by a collar, harness, or device giving the name and
telephone number of the current owner.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 RABIES VACCINATION.
   No person shall own, harbor, keep, or have custody of a dog over six months
of age, within this city, unless the dog has a current vaccination against
rabies and the dog has attached to its collar, harness, or similar device a
current rabies vaccination tag.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 CONFINEMENT.
   The owner shall confine within a building or secure enclosure any fierce,
dangerous, or vicious dog, except when under restraint by a responsible person.
Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building, secure enclosure,
veterinary hospital, or boarding kennel, or shall be controlled on a leash
while being exercised.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 AT LARGE.
   No owner shall permit the owner’s dog to be at large within the city.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person shall keep or harbor a dog which is a public nuisance.
   (B)   A dog is a public nuisance that does any of the following:
      (1)   Destroys property or habitually trespasses in a damaging manner on
property of persons other than the owner;
      (2)   Attacks or bites a person outside the owner’s or custodian’s
premises;
      (3)   Shows vicious habits or molests pedestrians or persons riding or
driving on the public streets or highways; or
      (4)   Habitually barks, bays, cries, howls, or makes any other noise
continuously for a period of ten minutes or barks intermittently for 30 minutes
or more, at any time, either day or night. A dog shall not be deemed a public
nuisance if, at the time the dog is barking or making any other noise, a person
is trespassing or threatening to trespass upon the private property on which
the dog is situated or when the dog is teased or provoked.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 POISONING OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to place upon the ground or in any other
place, any poison, bait, or other material intended to harm a dog.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Unidentified dogs, stray dogs, and dogs found at large shall, except
as provided in division (B) below, be taken by the Animal Control Authority of
the city and impounded in a shelter designated by the city and there confined
in a humane manner for a period of the lesser of five working days or until
claimed by the owner and may thereafter be disposed of as provided in this
subchapter.
   (B)   When a dog is found running at large and its ownership is known to the
Animal Control Authority, the dog need not be impounded, but the Animal Control
Authority may at its discretion return the dog to its owner and charge the
owner or keeper with a violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Immediately upon impounding a dog, the Animal Control Authority shall
make a reasonable effort to notify the owner of the dog so impounded and inform
the owner of the conditions whereby the owner may regain custody.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 90.09 RECORDS.
   The animal shelter shall keep proper records of the impoundment and
disposition of all animals coming into its custody.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 90.10 REDEMPTION.
   Any dog may be redeemed by the owner after being impounded within five
working days after seizure of the dog upon payment of an impounding fee of $100
to the Clerk, or to the agent as the City Council may designate plus the amount
then being charged by the Animal Shelter for daily board, veterinary and
administrative fees.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 90.11 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED DOGS.
   (A)   Any dog which is not claimed within five working days after impounding
shall become the property of the city and if not requested by a licensed
educational or scientific institution under M.S. § 347.14, subd.2, as it may be
amended from time to time, may be sold or painlessly killed. The city’s
ownership interest in unclaimed dogs may be transferred to the Animal Control
Authority by contract.
   (B)   If a dog is diseased, vicious, dangerous, rabid, or exposed to rabies
and the dog cannot be impounded after a reasonable effort or cannot be
impounded without serious risk to the persons attempting to impound the dog,
the dog may be immediately killed.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 90.12 RABIES CONTROL.
   State health laws and regulations are hereby adopted by reference to govern
the possession, testing, and disposition of rabid animals or animals suspected
of being rabid.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 90.13 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this subchapter
and to enforce its provisions, the Animal Control Authority is empowered to
enter upon any premises upon which a dog is kept or harbored and demand
exhibition by the owner of the identification tag and rabies tag of the dog.
   (B)   The Animal Control Authority of the city may enter the premises where
any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to
examine the animal.
   (C)   No person shall interfere with, hinder, or obstruct the Animal Control
Authority in the performance of any duty of such person under this subchapter
or seek to release any animal in the custody of the city or the Animal Control
Authority except as herein provided.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 REGULATION OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Determination of potentially dangerous dog. The Animal Control
Authority shall determine that a dog is a potentially dangerous dog if the
Animal Control Authority believes, based upon the Animal Control Authority’s
professional judgment, that a dog:
      (1)   Has, when unprovoked, inflicted bites on a human or domestic animal
on public or private property;
      (2)   Has, when unprovoked, chased or approached a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private
property, other than the dog owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of
attack; or
      (3)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   (B)   Notice of potentially dangerous dog. Upon a determination by the
Animal Control Authority that a dog is potentially dangerous, the Animal
Control Authority shall provide a notice of potentially dangerous dog to the
owner of the dog by personally serving the owner or a person of suitable age at
the residence of the owner. Service upon any owner shall be effective as to all
owners. The notice shall include the following:
      (1)   A description of the dog deemed to be potentially dangerous;
      (2)   The factual basis for that determination;
      (3)   The identity of the officer who has made the determination;
      (4)   An order that the owner have a microchip implanted in the dog for
identification in accordance with §
90.15(D) and provide the Animal Control Authority with proof thereof within 30
days of the date of service;
      (5)   An order that the owner provide the Animal Control Authority with
written notice of any relocation of the dog from its current residence,
providing any new owner’s full name, address, daytime and evening telephone
numbers, and the relocation address at least ten days prior to any relocation
or new ownership; and
      (6)   The criminal penalties for violation of the requirements pertaining
to potentially dangerous dogs.
   (C)   Requirements. It shall be the joint and several responsibility of each
owner of any dog kept or harbored within the city and determined to be
potentially dangerous under this section or state law to have a microchip
implanted in the dog for identification and provide the Animal Control
Authority with proof thereof, including the name of the microchip manufacturer
and its serial identification number, within 30 days of any owner’s receipt of
the notice of potentially dangerous dog or within ten days of the dog’s
location within the city, whichever occurs first. It shall also be the joint
and several responsibility of each owner of any potentially dangerous dog kept
or harbored within the city to provide the animal control authority with
written notice of any intended relocation of the dog from its current residence
and provide any new owner’s full name, address, daytime and evening telephone
numbers, and the relocation address at least ten days prior to any relocation
or new ownership.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 90.15 REGULATION OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Requirement. No person may own a dangerous dog unless the dog is
registered as provided in this section.
   (B)   Registration. The Animal Control Authority shall issue a certificate
of registration to the owner of a dangerous dog if the owner presents
sufficient evidence that:
      (1)   A proper enclosure exists for the dangerous dog and there is posted
on the premises a clearly visible warning sign provided by the Animal Control
Authority to inform children that there is a dangerous dog on the property. The
warning symbol must be the uniform symbol provided by the Commissioner of
Public Safety. The Commissioner shall provide the number of copies of the
warning symbol requested by the Animal Control Authority and shall charge the
Animal Control Authority the actual cost of the warning symbols received. The
Animal Control Authority may charge the registrant a reasonable fee to cover
its administrative costs and the cost of the warning symbol;
      (2)   A surety bond issued by a surety company authorized to conduct
business in this state in a form acceptable to the Animal Control Authority in
the sum of at least $300,000, payable to any person injured by the dangerous
dog, or a policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance company
authorized to conduct business in this state in the amount of at least
$300,000, insuring the owner for any personal injuries inflicted by the
dangerous dog;
      (3)   The owner has paid an annual fee of $300, in addition to any
regular dog licensing fees, to obtain a certificate of registration for a
dangerous dog under this section; and
      (4)   The owner has had microchip identification implanted in the
dangerous dog as required in division (D) below.
   (C)   Dangerous dog designation review. Beginning six months after a dog is
declared a dangerous dog, an owner may request annually that the Animal Control
Authority review the designation. The owner must provide evidence that the
dog’s behavior has changed due to the dog’s age, neutering, environment,
completion of obedience training that includes modification of aggressive
behavior, or other factors. If the Animal Control Authority finds sufficient
evidence that the dog’s behavior has changed, the authority may rescind the
dangerous dog designation.
   (D)   Microchip identification. The owner of a dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog must have a microchip implanted in the dog for identification,
and the name of the microchip manufacturer and identification number of the
microchip must be provided to the Animal Control Authority. If the microchip is
not implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the Animal Control
Authority. Once implanted, no one, except a licensed veterinarian, shall remove
a microchip from a dangerous dog. All costs related to the purchase and
implantation of the microchip must be borne by the dog’s owner.
   (E)   Dangerous dogs; additional requirements.
      (1)   An owner of a dangerous dog shall keep the dog, while on the
owner’s property, in a proper enclosure. If the dog is outside the proper
enclosure, the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or
leash and under the physical restraint of a responsible person. The muzzle must
be made in a manner that will prevent the dog from biting any person or animal
but that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or
respiration.
      (2)   An owner of a dangerous dog must renew the registration of the dog
annually until the dog is deceased. If the dog is removed from the
jurisdiction, it must be registered as a dangerous dog in its new jurisdiction.
      (3)   An owner of a dangerous dog must notify the Animal Control
Authority in writing of the death of the dog or its transfer to a new
jurisdiction within 30 days of the death or transfer, and must, if requested by
the Animal Control Authority, execute an affidavit under oath setting forth
either the circumstances of the dog’s death and disposition or the complete
name, address, and telephone number of the person to whom the dog has been
transferred.
      (4)   The Animal Control Authority may require a dangerous dog to be
sterilized at the owner’s expense. If the owner does not have the animal
sterilized, the Animal Control Authority may have the animal sterilized at the
owner’s expense.
      (5)   A person who owns a dangerous dog and who rents property from
another where the dog will reside must disclose to the property owner, prior to
entering the lease agreement, and at the time of any lease renewal, that that
person owns a dangerous dog that will reside at the property.
      (6)   A person who sells a dangerous dog must notify the purchaser that
the Animal Control Authority has identified the dog as dangerous. The seller
must also notify the Animal Control Authority in writing of the sale and
provide the Animal Control Authority with the new owner’s name, address, and
telephone number.
   (F)   Confiscation.
      (1)   Seizure. The Animal Control Authority shall immediately seize any
dangerous dog if:
         (a)   Fourteen days after the owner has notice that the dog is
dangerous, the dog is not validly registered pursuant to divisions (A) and (B)
above;
         (b)   Fourteen days after the owner has notice that the dog is
dangerous, the owner does not secure the property liability insurance or surety
coverage required by division (B) above;
         (c)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure;
         (d)   The dog is outside its proper enclosure and not under the
physical restraint of a responsible person as required by division (E) above;
or
         (e)   The dog is not sterilized within 30 days of the owner being
required, as provided in division (E) above, to cause the dog to be sterilized.
      (2)   Reclaimed. A dangerous dog seized under this section may be
reclaimed by the owner of the dog upon payment of impounding and boarding fees,
and presenting proof to the Animal Control Authority that the requirements of
this section will be met. A dog not reclaimed under this division (F)(2) within
seven days may be disposed of as provided in M.S. § 347.54, subd.2, as it may
be amended from time to time, and the owner is liable to the Animal Control
Authority for costs incurred in confining and disposing of the dog.
      (3)   Subsequent offenses; seizure. If a person has been convicted of a
misdemeanor for violating a provision of this section and the person is charged
with a subsequent violation relating to the same dog, the dog shall be seized
by the Animal Control Authority. If the owner is convicted of the crime for
which the dog was seized, the court shall order that the dog be destroyed in a
proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the cost of confining and
destroying the animal. If the person is not convicted of the crime for which
the dog was seized, the owner may reclaim the dog upon payment to the Animal
Control Authority of a fee for the care and boarding of the dog. If the dog is
not reclaimed by the owner within seven days after the owner has been notified
that the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be disposed of as provided in M.S. §
35.71, subd. 3, as is may be amended from time to time, and the owner is liable
to the Animal Control Authority for the costs incurred in confining,
impounding, and disposing of the dog.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 90.16 DISPOSITION OF SEIZED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Hearing. The owner of any dog declared dangerous has the right to a
hearing by an impartial hearing officer.
   (B)   Security. A person claiming an interest in a seized dog may prevent
disposition of the dog by posting security in an amount sufficient to provide
for the dog’s actual cost of care and keeping. The security must be posted
within seven days of the seizure inclusive of the date of the seizure.
   (C)   Notice. The authority declaring the dog dangerous shall give notice of
this section by delivering or mailing it to the owner of the dog, or by posting
a copy of it at the place where the dog is kept, or by delivering it to a
person residing on the property, and telephoning, if possible. The notice must
include:
      (1)   A description of the seized dog; the authority for and purpose of
the dangerous dog declaration and seizure; the time, place, and circumstances
under which the dog was declared dangerous; and the telephone number and
contact person where the dog is kept;
      (2)   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the dangerous dog declaration and, if applicable, prior potentially
dangerous dog declarations for the dog, and that failure to do so within 14
days of the date of the notice will terminate the owner’s right to a hearing
under this section;
      (3)   A statement that if an appeal request is made within 14 days of the
notice, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of §
90.15(E)(1) and (E)(3), and until the time as the hearing officer issues an
opinion;
      (4)   A statement that if the hearing officer affirms the dangerous dog
declaration, the owner will have 14 days from receipt of that decision to
comply with all other requirements of §
90.15(B), (D), and (E);
      (5)   A form to request a hearing under this subdivision; and
      (6)   A statement that all actual costs of the care, keeping, and
disposition of the dog are the responsibility of the person claiming an
interest in the dog, except to the extent that a court or hearing officer finds
that the seizure or impoundment was not substantially justified by law.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 90.17 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Dog ownership prohibited. Except as provided in division (C) below, no
person may own a dog if the person has:
      (1)   Been convicted of a third or subsequent violation of §
90.15(A), (D), or (E).
      (2)   Been convicted of a violation under M.S. § 609.205, clause (4), as
is may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   Been convicted of a gross misdemeanor under M.S. § 609.226, subd.
1, as is may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Been convicted of a violation under M.S. § 609.226, subd. 2, as is
may be amended from time to time; or
      (5)   Had a dog ordered destroyed under §
90.99(B) and been convicted of one or more violations of §
90.15(A), (D), or (E) hereof or M.S. § 609.226, subd. 2, as is may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   Household members. If any member of a household is prohibited from
owning a dog in division (A) above, unless specifically approved with or
without restrictions by the Animal Control Authority, no person in the
household is permitted to own a dog.
   (C)   Dog ownership prohibition review. Beginning three years after a
conviction under division (A) above that prohibits a person from owning a dog,
and annually thereafter, the person may request that the Animal Control
Authority review the prohibition. The Animal Control Authority may consider the
facts as the seriousness of the violation or violations that led to the
prohibition, any criminal convictions, or other facts that the Animal Control
Authority deems appropriate. The Animal Control Authority also may establish
conditions a person must meet before the prohibition is rescinded, including,
but not limited to, successfully completing dog training or dog handling
courses. If the Animal Control Authority rescinds a person’s prohibition and
the person subsequently fails to comply with any limitations imposed by the
Animal Control Authority or the person is convicted of any animal violation
involving unprovoked bites or dog attacks, the Animal Control Authority may
permanently prohibit the person from owning a dog in this state.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 90.18 BITE CASES.
   It shall be the duty of every physician to report to the Animal Control
Authority the names and addresses of persons treated for bites inflicted by
animals within the city, together with the other information as will aid in
rabies control.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 90.19 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Hospitals, clinics, and other premises operated by licensed
veterinarians for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter except where duties are expressly stated to apply to
them.
   (B)   The definition of “dangerous dog” and “biting dog” shall not apply to
a dog under the control of or on duty with a law enforcement officer.
   (C)   The dog identification requirements of this subchapter shall not apply
to any dog belonging to a nonresident of the city and kept within the city for
not longer than 30 days, provided that all dogs shall, at all times while
within the city, be kept under restraint.
   (D)   Dogs may not be declared dangerous if the threat, injury, or damage
was sustained by a person:
      (1)   Who was committing, at the time, a willful trespass or other tort
upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog;
      (2)   Who was provoking, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or
who can be shown to have repeatedly, in the past, provoked, tormented, abused,
or assaulted the dog; or
      (3)   Who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 90.20 DESTRUCTION OF DOG IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.
   (A)   Circumstances. Notwithstanding §
90.15, a dog may be destroyed in a proper and humane manner by the Animal
Control Authority if the dog:
      (1)   Inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on public or
private property without provocation;
      (2)   Inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private property
without provocation;
      (3)   Bit multiple human victims on public or private property in the
same attack without provocation; or
      (4)   Bit a human on public or private property without provocation in an
attack where more than one dog participated in the attack.
   (B)   Hearing. The Animal Control Authority may not destroy the dog until
the dog owner has had the opportunity for a hearing before an impartial
decision maker. The definitions in §
90.01 and the exemptions under §
90.19 apply to this section.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017)
FARM ANIMALS AND FOWL
§ 90.35 NUMBER OF ANIMALS PERMITTED.
   No person shall keep any horse, mule, hog, donkey, pony, cow, goat, or
animal raised for fur bearing purposes on residential or commercial plots of
less than five acres, provided, however, that no person shall keep more than
two horses, mules, donkeys, ponies, cows, goats, or animals raised for fur
bearing purposes on residential and commercial plots of five acres and provided
further that there must be at least two additional acres of land available for
each additional animal to be so kept.
(Ord. 6, passed 8-12-1969) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36 LOCATION OF SMALL ANIMAL PINS.
   No chicken coop, dove cote, dog kennel, rabbit warren, or other yard
establishment where small animals or fowls are kept shall be maintained closer
than 200 feet to any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding
house, retail food store, building used for school, religious, or hospital
purposes or residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the
premises upon which the creatures are kept.
(Ord. 6, passed 8-12-1969) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 VARIANCE.
   A variance to the rules and regulations contained herein may be granted by
the City Board upon an application made for a special use permit. The City
Board may, in its discretion, grant a special use permit upon an inspection of
the premises in question and upon a finding that no nuisance would be created
by special use and where the exception would not be inconsistent with the
intent of the rules and regulations as set forth herein.
(Ord. 6, passed 8-12-1969)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate §§
90.02,
90.03, or
90.05 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor. Each day that a person shall own,
harbor, keep, or have custody of a dog over six months of age within this city
without an identification tag and rabies tag shall be considered a separate
violation.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate any of the terms and provisions of §§
90.04,
90.06,
90.07,
90.15(A), (D), (E), and
90.18 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. In addition, after a finding of a court
of proper jurisdiction that a dog is a public nuisance as defined in §
90.06, the court may order that the dog be destroyed or that the owner or
custodian remove it from the city or keep it confined in a designated place.
      (3)   It is a misdemeanor to remove a microchip from a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog, to fail to renew the registration of a dangerous
dog, to fail to account for a dangerous dog’s death or change of location where
the dog will reside, to sign a false affidavit with respect to a dangerous
dog’s death or change of location where the dog will reside, or to fail to
disclose ownership of a dangerous dog to a property owner from whom the person
rents property.
      (4)   A person who is convicted of a second or subsequent violation of §
90.15(A), (D), or (E) is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.
      (5)   An owner who violates §
90.17(A) is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.
      (6)   Any household member who knowingly violates §
90.17(B) is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
90.35 to
90.37 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $300 or imprisonment in the county jail for
not more than 90 days. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 6, passed 8-12-1969; Ord. 185, passed 6-20-2017; Ord. 207, passed 1-15-
2019)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Public nuisance prohibition
   
91.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
91.03   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
91.04   Noise violations
   
91.05   Nuisance parking
   
91.06   Nuisance inoperable motor vehicles
   
91.07   Duties of city officers
   
91.08   Abatement procedure
   91.09   Recovery of cost
Open Burning
   
91.35   General
   
91.36   Permits for open burning
   
91.37   Household rubbish disposal
   
91.38   Recreational fires
False Alarms
   
91.50   Purpose
   
91.51   Definitions
   
91.52   Warning notice
   
91.53   Service fee
   
91.54   Payment of service fees
   
91.55   Violation
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITION.
   A person must not act, or fail to act, in a manner that is or causes a
public nuisance. For purpose of this chapter, a person that does any of the
following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures,
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage any
public highway, right-of-way, or waters used by the public;
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or the city code to be
a public nuisance; or
   (D)   Permits real property under their control to be used to maintain a
public nuisance, or rents their real property knowing it will be used to
maintain a public nuisance.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 91.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared public nuisances affecting public health:
   (A)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (B)   Accumulation of refuse, garbage, or other debris;
   (C)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight,
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (D)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other substances;
   (E)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders not contained on an
individual's property that is offensive to the senses of a reasonable person;
   (F)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by M.S. § 145A.05 not
operating under local license or the operation of any business in the violation
of state statutes or local ordinances;
   (G)   Any discharge, deposit, or dumping of any chemical or septic waste
onto city streets, right-of-way or public lands;
   (H)   Disposal of hazardous waste in any manner other than delivery to a
licensed collection facility;
   (I)   Any open burning of household trash or refuse, chemicals, gas or oils,
rubber, hazardous waste, and their derivatives; and
   (J)   Engaging in open burning or a recreational fire during a period in
which the Fire Marshall has prohibited open fires due to extreme fire hazard.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 91.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared public nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (B)   All wires and limbs of trees that are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (C)   Any person participating in any party or other gathering that causes
the unreasonable disturbing of the peace, quiet, or repose of another person in
such a manner as to be plainly audible at the boundary of the real property,
building, structure, or residence from which the noise originates, or at a
distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise. PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as
sound that can be detected by a person using their unaided hearing faculties;
   (D)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds, except under conditions as are
permitted by the city code or other applicable law;
   (E)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (F)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk that causes large crowds or people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (G)   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated as to endanger public safety, or not constructed and
maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (H)   Any barbed wire fence located less than six feet above the ground and
within three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (I)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery (including but not limited to
inoperable vehicles, machinery, and appliances) in any public place, or so
situated or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (J)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
properties;
   (K)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other materials in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health, or other
safety hazards from such accumulation;
   (L)   Any well, hole, or similar excavation that is left uncovered or in
such other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person
coming on the premises where it is located;
   (M)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter, ditch or drainage easement with trash or other
material;
   (N)   Any act which may alter or affect the drainage of public streets,
alleys, or drainage easements or the surface or grade of public streets,
alleys, sidewalks, or drainage easements without a proper permit;
   (O)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk, or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substances that may
injure any person or animal, or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over
such substance;
   (P)   Any artificial lighting devices which are used in such a manner to
cause a distraction to passing motorists or which are operated without a
mechanism or shielding to protect adjacent premises from being adversely
affected thereby;
   (Q)   Driving motorized scooters, bicycles, electric bikes, motorcycles,
snowmobiles, or any other type of motorized vehicle on any sidewalk, walkway or
private property of others, or the driving of said vehicles in a loud, noisy or
unsafe manner; and
   (R)   Making repairs to motor vehicles or tires in public streets, alleys,
or right-of-way, except in the case of emergency repairs.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 91.04 NOISE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited noises. The following are declared public nuisances
affecting public health, safety, peace, or welfare:
      (1)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or
welfare of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property, or affects
their property's value in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the
boundary of the real property, building, structure, or residence from which the
noise originates, or at a distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise.
PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as sound that can be detected by a person using
their unaided hearing faculties.
      (2)   All obnoxious noises, created by motor vehicle or otherwise, in
violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as they may be amended from time to time,
are hereby incorporated into this chapter by reference.
      (3)   The use of any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to create
loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise.
      (4)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of the
exhaust of any statutory internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile, or any recreational device,
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations.
      (5)   Any loud or excessive noise in the loading, unloading, or unpacking
of any vehicle.
      (6)   The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device, paging
system, machine, or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a
distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet, and
comfort of any person nearby.
   (B)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
      (1)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill, or
other similar domestic power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
      (2)   Refuse hauling. Unless otherwise authorized by the City Council, no
person shall collect or remove garbage or refuse in any residential district,
except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between
the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
      (3)   Construction activities. Unless otherwise authorized by the City
Council, no person shall engage in or permit construction activities involving
the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or gas-powered machine or other power
equipment, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday
or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
      (4)   Radios, music devices, amplifiers, speaker systems, and other
similar devices. The operation of any device referred to in division (A)(6)
above between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be
plainly audible at the property line of the structure or building in which it
is located, or at a distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a
structure or building shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
   (C)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person applying
for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any structure,
operation, process, installation, alteration, or project that may be considered
a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a form
prescribed by the Council. The Council shall evaluate each such statement and
take its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or
permit applied for or the zoning changes requested.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 91.05 NUISANCE PARKING.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Outside parking on residentially zoned
property of a substantial number of vehicles in violation of the requirements
set forth below is declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   Prohibition. A person must not cause, undertake, permit, or allow the
outside parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it
complies with the following requirements:
      (1)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be parked
or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city. The maximum number does not include vehicles
of guests who do not reside on the property.
      (2)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front yard areas
must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 91.06 NUISANCE INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Any motor vehicle described in this section
shall constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the
community as such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and
breeding ground for vermin, and present physical danger to the safety and well-
being of children and citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids
which, if released into the environment, can and do cause significant health
risks to the community.
   (B)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store, abandon or
permit keeping, parking, storing, or abandoning any motor vehicle that is not
in operating condition, partially dismantled, or which is not properly licensed
for operation within the state. This section shall apply to public lands,
streets or alleys, and private lands.
   (C)   Exception. This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in
a building or kept out of view from any street, road, sidewalk, or alley.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 91.07 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The City Administrator or any licensed peace officer is authorized to apply
and enforce any provision of this chapter relating to public nuisances within
the city. The City Administrator or any licensed peace officer shall have the
power to take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and
maintenance of public nuisances. Except in emergency situations of imminent
danger to human life and safety, no city official or peace officer may enter
private property for the purpose of inspecting or preventing public nuisances
without the permission of the owner, resident, or other person in control of
the property, unless the officer or person designated has obtained a warrant or
order from a court of competent jurisdiction authorizing entry of the property.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 91.08 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Procedure. Whenever the City Administrator or a peace officer
determines that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises
within the city, the official shall notify in writing all owners of record and
any occupants of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be
taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be
abated. If the notice of violation is not complied with within the time
specified, the official shall report that fact forthwith to the City Council.
Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner and occupant and an
opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition identified in the notice
of violation is a nuisance and further order that if the nuisance is not abated
within the time prescribed by the City Council, the city may seek injunctive
relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and notice of motion for
summary enforcement or obtain an administrative search and seizure warrant and
abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Notice. Written notice of the violation; notice of the time, date,
place, and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of the City
Council order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be
served on all owners of record and occupants of the premises either personally
or by certified mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner(s) of record
is unknown, or if the owner(s) of record or occupant(s) refuses to accept
notice, any notice required pursuant to this section be served by posting it on
the premises.
   (C)   Emergency immediate abatement; summary enforcement. Nothing in this
section shall prevent the city, without notice or other process, from
immediately abating any condition that poses an imminent and serious hazard to
human life or safety. To proceed with summary enforcement, the City
Administrator shall determine that a public nuisance exists or is being
maintained on premises in the city and that delay in abatement will
unreasonably endanger public health, safety, or welfare. The officer or
designated official shall notify in writing the occupant or owner of the
premises of the nature of the nuisance, whether public health, safety, or
welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement required to
complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this section and may order
that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is not
immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Judicial remedy. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from
seeking a judicial remedy when no other adequate administrative remedy exists.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 91.09 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of the premises on which a nuisance has
been abated by the city, or a person who has caused a public nuisance on
property not owned by that person, shall be personally liable to the city for
the cost of the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the
abatement has been completed and the cost determined, the City Administrator
shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the property owner. Thereupon
the amount shall be immediately due and payable to the city.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
public safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on
public sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the
traveled portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City
Administrator shall, on or before September 1 following abatement of the
nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along with all other such charges as
well as other charges for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101
against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are attributable. The
City Council may then spread the charges against the property under that
statute and any other pertinent statutes for certification to the Washington
County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in
annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in
each case.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 11-16-2021)
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.35 GENERAL.
   (A)   The City Board shall appoint a Fire Marshal and as many Deputy
Marshals as it deems necessary, with the authority and responsibility to
enforce all the provisions of this subchapter. Their term of office shall be
indefinite and shall terminate at the pleasure of the City Board. The Fire
Marshal or his or her deputies shall have the right to enter any property as it
may become necessary for the performance of their duties.
   (B)   During periods of extreme fire hazard, the Fire Marshal may prohibit
all types of open fires, including the burning of household rubbish and
recreational fires.
   (C)   When there is no snow cover, all open burning will be limited to the
period between 5:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. except for recreational fires.
   (D)   The open burning of chemicals, oils, rubber, and their derivatives is
prohibited at all times.
   (E)   All uncontrolled fires or violations of the provisions of this
subchapter shall be immediately reported to the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 11, passed 6-5-1973)
§ 91.36 PERMITS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Permits are required for all open fires, except household and
recreational, when there is no snow cover. This includes, but is not limited
to, the burning of trees, brush, grass, crop lands, crop residues and
industrial or commercial wastes. A permit fee of $1 shall be charged, which sum
shall be placed in the Fire Fund of the city.
   (B)   Open burning permits are issued by the Fire Marshal or his or her
deputies with the following conditions:
      (1)   Burning shall take place only at the time specified in the permit;
      (2)   The area of burning shall be limited to the designated site
approved by the Fire Marshal;
      (3)   Prevailing winds carry smoke away from neighboring dwellings and
public roadways;
      (4)   Burning be supervised by an adult during the entire period until
the fire is out; and
      (5)   Fire control equipment is at hand, such as hand sprayers, garden
hose, and fire extinguishers as appropriate.
(Ord. 11, passed 6-5-1973)
§ 91.37 HOUSEHOLD RUBBISH DISPOSAL.
   Household rubbish, to include leaves, may be burned without a permit only in
closed fire-resistant containers whose top and sides have openings not greater
than one inch in diameter. The containers shall be located to eliminate the
ignition of nearby combustible materials and structures and in no case nearer
than three feet.
(Ord. 11, passed 6-5-1973)
§ 91.38 RECREATIONAL FIRES.
   Recreational fires do not require permits but may be prohibited by the Fire
Marshal during periods of high fire hazard. The fires will not be left
unattended and must be totally extinguished before leaving the area.
Recreational fires on private property will only be built with the owner’s
permission.
(Ord. 11, passed 6-5-1973)
FALSE ALARMS
§ 91.50 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to encourage security, fire, or
medical alarm users and alarm businesses (including, but not limited to sales,
installation, and/or monitoring) to maintain the operational reliability and
the proper use of alarm systems so as to limit unnecessary police, fire, and
emergency medical responses to false alarms and alarm malfunctions.
   (B)   This subchapter governs burglary, robbery, intrusion, fire, and
medical emergency false alarms, provides for service fees for excessive false
alarms, and provides for issuance of citations for violations hereof.
(Ord. 63, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 91.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SITE. A single premises or location, or a multi-tenant location,
served by an alarm system or systems.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical, electrical, or radio controlled device or
system which is designed to emit, transmit, or relay a signal or message and
which when activated is intended to summon or would reasonably be expected to
summon police, fire, or emergency medical services. ALARM SYSTEM does not
include:
      (1)   An alarm installed on a vehicle, unless the vehicle is permanently
located at a site; or
      (2)   An alarm designed to alert only the inhabitants of a premises, and
which does not constitute a local alarm.
   ALARM USER. The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization in control of any building, structure, or facility
where an alarm system is maintained.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal eliciting a response by police or fire
personnel when a situation requiring a response does not, in fact, exist and
which is caused by the activation of the alarm system through mechanical
failure, alarm malfunction, improper installation, or the inadvertence or
deliberate acts of the owner or lessee of an alarm system or of his or her
employees or agents. FALSE ALARMS do not include alarms caused by climactic
conditions such as tornadoes, thunderstorms, utility line failures, violent
conditions of nature, or any other conditions which are clearly beyond the
control of the alarm manufacturer, installer, owner, or user.
   WARNING NOTICE. A notification provided to the owner or person in charge of
an alarm by police or fire personnel for false alarms.
(Ord. 63, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 91.52 WARNING NOTICE.
   A warning notice shall be issued by police or fire personnel as may be
appropriate for false alarms. The warning notice will require that the alarm
system be inspected and/or serviced within five working days with written
documentation to the notifying office that the system is in working order.
(Ord. 63, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 91.53 SERVICE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed a fee on the user if any false alarms occur with a
frequency of greater than three within a 12-month period. Each false alarm in
excess of three, and up to and including six, within a 12-month period shall
result in a service fee of $50 for each false alarm. Each false alarm in excess
of six within a 12-month period shall result in a service fee of $100 per false
alarm.
(Ord. 63, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 91.54 PAYMENT OF SERVICE FEES.
   Service fees must be paid to the City Clerk within 30 days from the date of
notice by the appropriate personnel to the alarm user. Failure to pay the fee
within 30 days shall cause the alarm user to be considered delinquent and
subject to a penalty of 10% of the fee. All delinquent charges for service fees
shall be a lien on the premises. All such charges which are on September 30 of
each year more than 45 days past due shall be certified by the City Clerk to
the County Auditor to be paid in the same manner as other taxes and collected
by the County Treasurer and paid to the city with other taxes.
(Ord. 63, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 91.55 VIOLATION.
   An alarm user is in violation of this subchapter if the user suffers or
permits false alarms in excess of three within a 12-month period, each
additional false alarm constituting a separate violation, or fails to pay when
due the service fee imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 63, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Notwithstanding any potential civil enforcement actions that may be taken
pursuant to this chapter, any person convicted of violating any provision of
Ch. 91 of the city code is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 11-16-2021)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Definition
   
92.02   Park hours
   
92.03   Removing, defacing, or destroying property prohibited
   
92.04   Erection of structures
   
92.05   Littering and dumping
   
92.06   Motorized vehicles
   
92.07   Non-motorized vehicles
   
92.08   Open fires prohibited
   
92.09   Sale of articles
   
92.10   Posting signs and placards
   
92.11   Animals
   
92.12   Climbing of trees and on buildings
   
92.13   Other prohibited acts
   
92.14   Variances
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKS. A park, playground, athletic field, trail, nature area, open space
area, or recreational facility, including adjacent parking areas, owned or
operated by the city for the purpose of recreation or open space use. For the
purpose of this chapter, PARK does not include the Goose Lake and Log House
Landing (St Croix) boat launch sites, and undeveloped Bone Lake Park.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012)
§ 92.02 PARK HOURS.
   (A)   No person, except authorized city personnel, shall enter or be in or
remain in any park beginning one-half hour after sunset and ending at 4:00 a.m.
except with a permit issued by the City Clerk.
   (B)   These hours of operation do not apply to the Wojtowicz Skating Park
and any lighted ball fields.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 REMOVING, DEFACING, OR DESTROYING PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall remove, deface, destroy, diminish, or impair the value of
public property located on or within any park, including buildings, structures,
trees, shrubs, grass, vegetation, signs, tables, benches, fireplaces, trash
receptacles, notices or placards, boundary markers or fences, or any other
public property, either real or personal.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ERECTION OF STRUCTURES.
   No person shall construct or erect any tent, building, or structure of any
kind, whether permanent or temporary in character, or run or string any public
service utility into, upon, or across any park, except with a permit issued by
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 LITTERING AND DUMPING.
   No person shall litter, or cast upon or allow to remain any rubbish or trash
of any kind or nature in or about any park.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 MOTORIZED VEHICLES.
   Motorized vehicles shall be driven or parked only in designated areas in any
park and shall be driven therein at a maximum speed of five mph. Snowmobiles
and all-terrain vehicles shall not be operated in any park except in areas
specifically designated or posted for their operation, or as required for
maintenance or for police, fire, or rescue purposes. Overnight parking is
prohibited.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 NON-MOTORIZED VEHICLES.
   Bicycles or other non-motorized vehicles of any type are not permitted in
Wind in the Pines Park Preserve.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 OPEN FIRES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall build a fire in any place in any park at any time, except in
fireplaces or receptacles provided therein by the city or in privately owned
grills that are not harmful to grass or other vegetation. Open fires, including
the use of grills, are prohibited in Wind in the Pines Preserve.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 SALE OF ARTICLES.
   No person shall sell any articles, or solicit for the sale thereof, in any
park without a permit issued by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 POSTING SIGNS AND PLACARDS.
   No person shall paste, glue, tack, or otherwise post any sign, placard,
advertisement, or inscription, whatsoever the same may be, in any park without
a permit issued by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 ANIMALS.
   No domestic animals, including cats and dogs, shall be permitted within Wind
in the Pines Park Preserve. No person shall allow any domestic animal,
including dogs and cats, to go unattended and without physical restraint in any
other park. Pet owners and animal handlers are responsible for cleaning up
their pet’s waste and disposing of it in a sanitary manner.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 CLIMBING OF TREES AND ON BUILDINGS.
   No person shall climb any trees or climb on any building or structure in any
park.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.13 OTHER PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It is unlawful in any park for any person to:
   (A)   Disturb or interfere with any birds, animals, animal habitat, or
nesting area;
   (B)   Schedule and hold gatherings of more than 100 people without a permit
from the City Clerk and after approval by the City Council;
   (C)   Discharge any gun, firearm, air gun, pellet gun, explosive, bow and
arrow, or other similar device, except for a peace officer in the discharge of
his or her duties, without a permit from the City Clerk and after approval by
the City Council;
   (D)   Discharge fireworks except when authorized in writing by the City
Council; or
   (E)   Discharge any pollutants into any body of water in any park.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.14 VARIANCES.
   Variances to the strict application of this chapter may be granted only by
the City Council and only in unusual circumstances. Nothing herein shall
prohibit the normal care, operation, or functions of the city or its authorized
agents in or on any city park.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished according to law.
(Ord. 133, passed 11-20-2012)
CHAPTER 93: PRIVATE GATHERINGS AND EVENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Findings
   
93.03   Definitions
   
93.04   Prohibited acts
   
93.05   Exceptions
Special Events
   
93.20   Purpose
   
93.21   Definitions
   
93.22   Permit required
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council intends to discourage underage possession and consumption
of alcohol, even if done within the confines of a private residence, and
intends to hold persons criminally responsible who host events or gatherings
where persons under 21 years of age possess or consume alcohol regardless of
whether the person hosting the event or gathering supplied the alcohol.
(Ord. 144, passed - -2013)
§ 93.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds that:
   (A)   Alcohol is an addictive drug which, if used irresponsibly, could have
adverse effects on those who use it as well as those who are affected by the
actions of an irresponsible user;
   (B)   Prohibiting underage consumption acts to protect underage persons, as
well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol consumption, such
as alcohol overdose or alcohol-related traffic accidents;
   (C)   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where alcohol
is possessed or consumed by persons under the age of 21 may be harmful to those
persons and constitute a potential threat to public health;
   (D)   Events and gatherings involving underage possession and consumption of
alcohol frequently occur outside the presence of parents or legal guardians.
There are times, however, when a parent, guardian, or other responsible person
is present thereby condoning the activity and, at times, provides the alcohol
to persons under the age of 21;
   (E)   Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to a person under the age of
21 is a crime, it is difficult to prove, and an ordinance is necessary as
another tool to help further combat underage possession and consumption of
alcohol; and
   (F)   Holding a person criminally responsible for hosting an event or
gathering where underage possession or consumption of alcohol occurs will serve
as a deterrent.
(Ord. 144, passed - -2013)
§ 93.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits, including dilutions
and mixtures thereof, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains 0.5% or
more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either along
or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances.
   EVENT or GATHERING. A group of three or more persons who have assembled or
gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
   HOST. To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit an event or gathering regardless of whether or not the host is present.
   PARENT. A person having the following relationship with a person under the
age of 21:
      (1)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent;
      (2)   A legal guardian; or
      (3)   A person to whom legal custody has been given by order of a court.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation, or an
association of one or more individuals. PERSON does not include a city, county,
or state agency.
   REASONABLE STEPS. Steps taken by a person hosting an event or gathering in
order to prevent underage possession or consumption of alcohol or alcoholic
beverages. REASONABLE STEPS may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Controlling access to alcohol or alcoholic beverages in a manner
that no underage person has access to the alcohol or alcoholic beverages at the
gathering or event;
      (2)   Directly supervising the activities of underage persons at the
gathering or event either in person or through a responsible adult;
      (3)   Checking the identification of the attendees of the event or
gathering in order to determine age; and
      (4)   Other actions taken by a person hosting an event or gathering in
order to prevent underage possession or consumption of alcohol or alcoholic
beverages.
   RESIDENCE or PREMISES. Any location, including a home, yard, farm, field,
land, apartment, condominium, hotel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or
meeting room, park, or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether
occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with our without permission or compensation.
   UNDERAGE PERSON. An individual under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 144, passed - -2013)
§ 93.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to host or allow a gathering or an event
at any residence or premises where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present
when the person knows or should reasonably know that an underage person will or
does:
      (1)   Consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage; or
      (2)   Possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the intent to
consume it; and
      (3)   The person fails or has failed to take reasonable steps to prevent
possession or consumption by the underage person(s).
   (B)   A person is criminally responsible for violating division (A) above if
the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, or conspires with or
otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
   (C)   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be present
at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
(Ord. 144, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   This section shall not apply to:
   (A)   Conduct solely between an underage person who consumes alcohol in the
presence of and with the permission of his or her parent in the parent’s house;
   (B)   Legally protected religious observances;
   (C)   Retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor licensees, municipal
liquor stores, or bottle club permit holders who are regulated under M.S. §
340A.503, subd. 1(a)(1), as is may be amended from time to time; or
   (D)   Situations where underage persons are lawfully in possession of
alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course and scope of employment.
(Ord. 144, passed - -2013)
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 93.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the citizens of the city by regulating the time, place, and manner of
special events and by establishing permit requirements for conducting the
events.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 93.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMPLIFIED EVENT. Any special event that includes electronically amplified
music and/or voices.
   APPLICANT. Any person or organization who seeks a permit to conduct or
sponsor a special event within the city.
   NON-AMPLIFIED EVENT. Any special event that does not include electronically
amplified music and/or voices.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An outdoor gathering of at least 100 individuals whether on
public or private property, assembled with a common purpose for a period of one
hour or longer but may not exceed 12 hours in duration; except, that events
held during the two-day Taco Daze community celebration shall be considered one
event. SPECIAL EVENTS include, but are not limited to concerts, theatrical
productions, public dances, fairs, carnivals, circuses, parades, flea markets,
auctions, marathons, walkathons, festivals, races, bicycle events,
celebrations, or any other gathering or events of similar nature. SPECIAL
EVENTS do not include events that are not open to the public and held on
private property such as graduation parties or social parties.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 93.22 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall hold, conduct, or participate in a special event within the
city unless a permit has been issued for the event upon timely written
application made to the city.
   (A)   Application for permit. Each written application for a special event
permit must be made at least 30 days in advance of the event’s proposed date in
a form prescribed by the City Clerk. This application period shall not begin to
run until a complete application has been filed with the city. A fee, as
established by City Council resolution from time to time, shall be paid to the
city along with the completed application form. In addition to the fee, the
applicant shall pay all additional costs incurred by the city as a direct
result of the special event. Failure to provide a complete application or to
pay the fee, as herein required, is sufficient reason to deny the special event
permit.
   (B)   Issuance of permit, conditions. Special event permits will be issued
upon City Council approval. The Council may attach reasonable conditions to the
permit as are deemed necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the community and of event participants. The conditions may pertain to any of
the following:
      (1)   Location and hours during which the event may be held;
      (2)   Sanitation/availability of potable water;
      (3)   Security/crowd management;
      (4)   Parking and traffic issues;
      (5)   Emergency and medical services;
      (6)   Clean-up of premises and surrounding area/trash disposal;
      (7)   Insurance;
      (8)   Lighting;
      (9)   Fire service/safety;
      (10)   Temporary construction, barricades/fencing;
      (11)   Removal of advertising/promotional materials;
      (12)   Noise levels;
      (13)   Alcohol consumption;
      (14)   Notification of residents or businesses; or
      (15)   Any other conditions which the Council deems necessary.
   (C)   Exceptions to the permit requirement. The permit requirement contained
in this subchapter does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Special events sponsored and managed by the city;
      (2)   Funerals and funeral processions;
      (3)   Events on the grounds of any school, community center, museum,
place of worship, conference center, stadium, athletic field, arena,
auditorium, or similar place of assembly when used for regularly established
assembly purposes;
      (4)   Events for which the city has issued a park user permit as provided
by city ordinance; or
      (5)   Auctions ending before 8:00 p.m.
   (D)   Restriction on number of special events. No more than four amplified
events shall be permitted at one location in any one calendar year. There shall
be no limit on the number of non-amplified events.
   (E)   Noise restrictions for amplified special events. Special events shall
comply with all applicable noise ordinances, except that amplified sound
audible at the property line may be permitted until 11:59 p.m. on Friday and
Saturday nights.
   (F)   Denial of application. A permit may be denied based upon a
determination that:
      (1)   The event would endanger public health or safety;
      (2)   The event would unreasonably inconvenience the general public;
      (3)   The event would unreasonably infringe upon adjacent property
owners’ rights;
      (4)   The event would conflict with another proximate event or interfere
with construction or maintenance work;
      (5)   There are not sufficient safety personnel or other necessary staff
to accommodate the event;
      (6)   The applicant has violated a condition of this subchapter or a
special event permit issued to the applicant within the last 12 months;
      (7)   The property on which the event is to take place or the owners of
the property on which the event is to take place is delinquent in the payment
of property taxes, assessments, employment taxes, or other financial claims of
the city and or other public agencies;
      (8)   The applicant has failed to present acceptable evidence of
compliance with workers’ compensation insurance requirements, as applicable; or
      (9)   Other issues in the public interest were identified by the City
Council.
   (G)   Indemnification and insurance.
      (1)   The permit holder shall agree to defend, indemnify, and hold the
city and its officers and employees harmless from any liability, claim,
damages, costs, judgments, or expenses, including attorney’s fees, resulting
directly or indirectly from an act or omission including, without limitation,
professional errors and omissions of event promoter, its agents, employees,
arising out of or by any reason of the conduct of the activity authorized by
the permit and against all loss caused in any way by reason of the failure of
the event promoter to fully perform all obligations under this subchapter.
      (2)   As a condition of the granting of a permit for a special event
conducted on public property or public streets or parking lots, the permit
holder shall provide to the city a public liability insurance policy naming the
city as an additional insured entity with limits of not less than $1,000,000
per occurrence.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
93.01 to
93.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine, imprisonment, or both.
   (C)   Any person who violates any condition of a special event permit or any
provision of §§
93.20 to
93.22 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as prescribed by state law.
Enforcement of §§
93.20 to
93.22 may, at the Council’s discretion, take any of the following forms:
      (1)   Citation/criminal prosecution;
      (2)   Injunctions, declaratory judgments, or other civil remedies;
      (3)   Permit revocation; or
      (4)   Disbursement of persons gathered.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-1-2009; Ord. 144, passed - -2013)
CHAPTER 94: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Diseased Trees
   
94.01   Declaration of policy
   
94.02   Appointment of a forester and/or tree inspector
   
94.03   Declaration of nuisance
   
94.04   Nuisance prohibited
   
94.05   Inspection and investigation
   
94.06   Interference prohibited
   
94.07   Summary of abatement procedures
   
94.08   Transporting diseased trees
Fertilizer and Pesticide Application
   
94.20   Purpose
   
94.21   Specific provisions
   
94.22   Fertilizer content
 
   
94.99   Penalty
DISEASED TREES
§ 94.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The City Board has determined that the health of oak trees within the city
is threatened by a fatal tree disease commonly known as oak wilt. It has been
further determined that the loss of oak trees growing upon public and private
property does substantially depreciate the value of property within the city
and impair the safety, good order, general welfare, and convenience of the
public. It is declared to be the intent of the City Board to control and
prevent the spread of oak wilt disease and other epidemic diseases of shade
trees and this subchapter is enacted for that purpose. It is also the intention
of the City Board to conduct a program of plant pest control pursuant to
authority granted by M.S. § 18.75 et. seq., as it may be amended from time to
time. This program is directed specifically at the control and elimination of
oak wilt fungus and is undertaken at the recommendation of the state’s
Commissioner of Agriculture.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-18-1995)
§ 94.02 APPOINTMENT OF A FORESTER AND/OR TREE INSPECTOR.
   The City Board shall designate a forester and/or tree inspector, certified
by the state’s Commissioner of Agriculture, who shall administer the shade tree
disease program under the direction of the City Board and in accordance with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-18-1995)
§ 94.03 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   The following are declared to be public nuisances whenever and wherever they
may be found within the city:
   (A)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any degree
with oak wilt fungus, Ceratocystis fagacearum, that has been determined by the
city forester and/or tree inspector to pose a threat of overland transmission
of the fungus to other oak trees;
   (B)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which, in the opinion of the city
forester and/or tree inspector, constitutes a hazard for the overland spread of
oak wilt including, but not limited to, branches greater than two inches in
diameter at the largest end, logs, stumps, or firewood; and
   (C)   Other shade trees with epidemic diseases.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-18-1995)
§ 94.04 NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a public nuisance, as defined
in this subchapter, to remain on any premises owned or controlled by that
person within the city. Such nuisances shall be abated in the manner prescribed
by this subchapter.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-18-1995) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Annual inspection. The forester and/or tree inspector shall inspect,
as often as necessary, all public and private places within the city to
determine whether any of the conditions described in §
94.03 exists thereon. The forester and/or tree inspector shall investigate all
reported incidents of infection or infestation by oak wilt fungus or any other
epidemic disease of shade trees. The term PRIVATE PLACE means every place
except private homes and buildings.
   (B)   Right of entry. The forester and/or tree inspector or the City Board’s
duly authorized agents may enter upon all public and private places at any
reasonable time for the purpose of carrying out any of the duties assigned
herein. Before making any inspection on private property within the city, the
forester and/or tree inspector shall give five days’ written notice of the
inspection to all affected residents and property owners.
   (C)   Disease determination. Whenever possible, diagnosis shall be based
upon accepted field symptoms. The forester and/or tree inspector may, upon
finding indications of oak wilt, take such other steps as may be appropriate to
confirm the diagnosis. These steps may include analysis of twig and stem
samples from oak trees, or parts thereof, suspected of being infected,
laboratory isolation, and confirmation of the presence of the fungi shall be
done by the Department of Agriculture disease diagnosis laboratory or other
laboratories capable of performing the services approved by the state’s
Commissioner of Agriculture.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-18-1995)
§ 94.06 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
forester and/or tree inspector while engaged in the performance of duties set
forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-18-1995) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 SUMMARY OF ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If the forester and/or tree inspector finds with reasonable certainty
that the infestation defined as a public nuisance herein exists in any tree or
wood in any public or private place in the city, and that the danger of
infestation of other oak trees is imminent, the forester and/or tree inspector
shall notify the owner of the property on which such tree or wood is located by
certified mail that the nuisance shall be abated within a specified time, not
less than ten days from the date of mailing of the notice. The forester and/or
tree inspector shall immediately report the action to the City Board. It shall
be the obligation of the property owner to carry out the abatement procedures,
within the time frames established by the forester and/or tree inspector,
determined by the scope of the problem, physical limitations, and the like.
After the expiration of the time set forth in the notice, the forester and/or
tree inspector may abate the nuisance unless a request for a hearing has been
filed as provided in division (B) below. The cost of the abatement, plus an
administrative fee of $50, shall be assessed against the owner of the property
involved or against the property itself.
   (B)   Any property owner who feels aggrieved by an order of the forester
and/or tree inspector issued pursuant to division (A) above may request a
hearing before the City Board. The request shall be filed with the City Clerk,
in writing, within ten days after the date of the mailing of the notice by the
forester and/or tree inspector. Upon receipt of the request, the matter shall
be placed before the City Board at its next meeting. The City Clerk shall
notify the property owner of the date, time, and place of the meeting. All
actions by the forester and/or tree inspector shall be suspended until the
hearing. The property owner may appear with counsel, if he or she so chooses,
and present evidence in apposition to the order of the forester and/or tree
inspector. Following the hearing, the City Board shall make a determination of
the facts and shall, based upon the determination affirm, repeal, or modify the
order of the forester and/or tree inspector. The City Board shall also
establish a date for compliance of the order as affirmed or modified, which
date shall be not less than five days thereafter. Upon expiration of the time
limit, the forester and/or tree inspector may abate the nuisance.
   (C)   (1)   To reduce the incidents of overland or long range spread of oak
wilt fungus and to prevent oak wilt fungus from producing spores during the
hazardous spring period, bark intact diseased material resulting from any tree
that wilted from oak wilt in July or August of one year may be declared a
nuisance, as defined in §
94.03, for the spring of the following year as determined by the forester and/
or tree inspector. The hazardous spring period for overland or long range
spread of oak wilt fungus shall be defined as April 15 to July 1.
      (2)   Any owner who has been notified by certified mail of any oak wood
or tree material declared to be a public nuisance located on the person’s
property may abate the diseased trees as described. The diseased tree may be
used as fuel wood or be salvaged for other purposes. The wood must be debarked,
dried, or else completely covered by heavy plastic, four mil or greater, from
April 15 until July 1 of the year following the appearance of the oak wilt
symptoms. After this time the wood or tree material will no longer be a public
nuisance. Any branch greater than two inches in diameter of the red oak group
determined to be hazardous and not to be salvaged shall be disposed of by
burning, chipping, or removal to an authorized dump site prior to April 15 of
the year following the appearance of the symptoms.
      (3)   Dead standing wood or tree material of the red oak group that has
advanced beyond the potential for spore production need not be removed except
where it constitutes a hazard to life and/or property. The forester and/or tree
inspector shall determine this status in response to a resident’s complaint.
      (4)   Stumps of trees of the red oak group removed due to oak wilt shall
be completely covered with a minimum of two inches of compacted soil, removed,
or debarked to the ground line to eliminate all possibilities of spore
formation and overland disease spread.
      (5)   The pruning of oaks shall be avoided during the most susceptible
period of infection, April 15 to July l. If wounding is unavoidable during this
period, as in the aftermath of a storm or when the tree interferes with utility
lines, a tree wound dressing shall be applied immediately.
   (D)   If the forester and/or tree inspector finds a nuisance which has the
potential of infestation via common root networks to abutting property, the
property owner of the abutting property shall be notified of the existing
nuisance and proper abatement procedures shall be conducted based on current
technology and plans as may be designated by the state’s Commissioner of
Agriculture.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-18-1995)
§ 94.08 TRANSPORTING DISEASED TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport within the city any wood
from the red oak group that is determined to be hazardous to the spread of oak
wilt fungus, without having obtained a permit from the city forester and/or
tree inspector. The forester and/or tree inspector shall grant a permit only
when it does not interfere with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-18-1995) Penalty, see §
94.99
FERTILIZER AND PESTICIDE APPLICATION
§ 94.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to define regulations which will aid the
city in maintaining and improving public water resources by regulating the use,
amount, and application of lawn fertilizers, pesticides, and herbicides within
the city.
(Ord. 32, passed 2-20-1990)
§ 94.21 SPECIFIC PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or franchise shall engage in the
business of commercial lawn fertilizer application within the city unless a
license has been obtained from the City Administrator. A license fee shall be
paid by the commercial lawn fertilizer applicator and a performance bond shall
be submitted to the City Clerk.
   (B)   The commercial lawn fertilizer applicators shall permit the city to
sample any commercial lawn fertilizer application to be applied within the city
at any time after issuance of the initial license. The license shall be in the
possession of the applicator or any employee thereof when making lawn
fertilizer applications within the city. The licensee shall comply with the
provisions of M.S. § 17.710, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Upon the city’s request, the property owner shall provide the city
with samples of lawn fertilizer to be applied by the owner.
   (D)   Lawn fertilizer shall not be applied when the ground is frozen or
between November 15 and April 15 of each year.
   (E)   No person, firm, corporation, or franchise shall apply liquid lawn
fertilizer with excessive amounts of phosphate as described in the this
section.
   (F)   All commercial or noncommercial applicators of pesticides shall post
or affix warning signs to the property where the pesticides are applied of the
kind and in the manner described in this section.
(Ord. 32, passed 2-20-1990)
§ 94.22 FERTILIZER CONTENT.
   No person, firm, corporation, or franchise shall apply liquid fertilizer
within the city which contains more than 0.5% by weight of phosphate, expressed
as P2 O 5, or granular fertilizer which contains more than 3% by weight of
phosphate, expressed as P2 O 5, unless a single application is less than or
equal to 0.05 pounds of phosphate, expressed as P2 O 5, per 1,000 square feet.
Annual application amounts shall not exceed 0.10 pounds of phosphate, expressed
as P2 O 5, per 1,000 square feet of lawn area.
(Ord. 33, passed 4-17-1990)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates the conditions of
§§
94.01 to
94.08 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $700 or imprisonment for 90 days, or both.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (B)(1) above, if
the City Board is required to institute proceedings to prevent, restrain,
correct, or abate any failure to comply with the provisions of §§
94.01 to
94.08, it may assess the cost of the action or proceeding against the affected
real property or collect same from the owner.
   (C)   Any person, firm, corporation, or franchise who violates §§
94.20 or
94.21 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $300 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or
both, except that any person not having a commercial lawn fertilizer license in
his or her possession shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100.
(Ord. 32, passed 2-20-1990; Ord. 52, passed 7-18-1995)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOL
      
111.   TOBACCO
      
112.   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
113.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
114.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
115.   CANNABIS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOL
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
110.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
110.03   Definitions
   
110.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
Licensing
   
110.15   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
110.16   Term and expiration of licenses
   
110.17   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
110.18   License fees; pro rata
   
110.19   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
110.20   Application for license
   
110.21   Description of premises
   
110.22   Applications for renewal
   
110.23   Transfer of license
   
110.24   Investigation
   
110.25   Hearing and issuance
   
110.26   Restrictions on issuance
   
110.27   Conditions of license
   
110.28   Hours and days of sale
   
110.29   Minor prohibited on premises
   
110.30   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
110.31   Suspension and revocation
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General offenses, see
Ch. 130
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
   Private gatherings and events, see
Ch. 9
3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if
they had been in existence at the time this chapter is adopted.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 110.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 110.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter.
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2% malt,” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt
liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a “small establishment”, “medium establishment”, or
“large establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16, subd. 3d, as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is
heated and served, shall not be considered to be a RESTAURANT for purposes of
this chapter unless it meets the definitions of “small establishment”, “medium
establishment”, or “large establishment”.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 110.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a nontransparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
110.99.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
LICENSING
§ 110.15 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
The City Council may issue up to the number of licenses allowed by M.S. Ch.
340A, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007; Ord. 153, passed 6-17-2014)
§ 110.16 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 110.17 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council is authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to
the number specified in §
110.15:
   (A)   Three and two tenths percent malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may
be issued only to golf courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers,
and establishments used exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the
incidental sale of tobacco and soft drinks;
   (B)   Three and two tenths percent malt liquor off-sale licenses;
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization;
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses. The fee for an off-sale
intoxicating liquor license established by the Council under §
110.18 shall not exceed $100 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S.
§ 340A.408, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels; restaurants; bowling centers;
theaters; clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations; and
exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under §
110.18 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 2b,
as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may, in its sound
discretion, authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor
off the licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 4b, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Council may, in its sound discretion, authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 4a, as it may be amended from time to
time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor
to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being
held on the premises;
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
110.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
110.18, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, subd. 3c, as it may be amended from time to time;
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses;
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year;
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters; restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
110.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.401, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The fee for
an on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of §
110.18 shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor
with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license;
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization; and
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
110.18 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M. S. §
340A.414, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 110.18 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish by ordinance, from time to time, the fee for
any of the liquor licenses it is authorized to issue. The license fee may not
exceed the cost of issuing the license and other costs directly related to the
enforcement of the liquor laws and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be
increased without providing mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase
to all affected licensees at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 110.19 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council, in its sound discretion, may either grant or deny the
application for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No
applicant has a right to a license under this chapter.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 110.20 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 110.22 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 110.23 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.24 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 110.25 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall, in its sound discretion, grant or deny the application. No
license shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 110.26 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. If the applicant is a corporation, all of the shareholders shall be
residents of the state. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to
any license existing on the effective date of this chapter or to the renewal of
an existing license.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007)
§ 110.27 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an “on-sale” license shall receive
training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training
shall be provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training
shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that no sale of 3.2%
malt liquor or intoxicating liquor may be made between the hours of 1:00 a.m.
and 8:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.29 MINOR PROHIBITED ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on-sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing services
in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel, or other multi-purpose
building serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt
liquor are sold at retail on-sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.30 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.31 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.7069, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council
may act as the hearing body under that Act, or it may contract with the Office
of Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any rules
promulgated under that chapter, as they may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, or
violation of §
110.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed;
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed;
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed; and
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (C) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
110.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A,
as it may be amended from time to time, or any rules promulgated under this
chapter, as it may be amended from time to time, is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of this
chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as it may be amended from time to time,
is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold a
hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person
who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or
revocation of the license. The following is the minimum schedule of presumptive
civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to any suspension unless the
licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any three-year period, $500;
      (2)   For the second violation within any three-year period, $1,000; and
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period, $2,000.
   (C)   The term VIOLATION as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time, or any rules promulgated under this chapter, as they
may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be determined
on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding three-year period.
Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which
revocation is imposed.
(Ord. 93, passed 1-2-2007)
CHAPTER 111: TOBACCO
Section
   
111.01   Purpose and intent
   
111.02   Definitions and interpretations
   
111.03   License
   
111.04   Fees
   
111.05   Basis for denial of license
   
111.06   Prohibited acts
   
111.07   Responsibility
   
111.08   Compliance checks and inspections
   
111.09   Other prohibited acts
   
111.10   Revocation hearing
   
111.11   Exceptions and defenses
   
111.12   Violations
 
   
111.99   Administrative penalties
§ 111.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Because the city recognizes that the sale of commercial tobacco, tobacco-
related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery
products to persons under the age of 18 violates both state and federal laws;
and because studies, which the city accepts and adopts, have shown that youth
use of any commercial tobacco product has increased to 26.4% in Minnesota; and
because nearly 90% of smokers begin smoking before they have reached the age of
18 years, and that almost no one starts smoking after age 25; and because
marketing analysis, public health research, and commercial tobacco industry
documents reveal that tobacco companies have used menthol, mint, fruit, candy,
and alcohol flavors as a way to target youth and young adults and that the
presence of such flavors can make it more difficult to quit; and because
studies show that youth and young adults are especially susceptible to
commercial tobacco product availability, advertising, and price promotions at
tobacco retail environments; and because commercial tobacco use has been shown
to be the cause of many serious health problems which subsequently place a
financial burden on all levels of government, this chapter is intended to
regulate the sale of commercial tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic
delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery products for the purpose of
enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect youth and young adults
against the serious health effects associated with use and initiation, and to
further the official public policy of the state to prevent young people from
starting to smoke, as stated in M.S. § 144.391, as it may be amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 212, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD-RESISTANT PACKAGING. Packaging that meets the definition set forth in
Code of Federal Regulations, title 16, section 1700.15(b), as in effect on
January 1, 2015, and was tested in accordance with the method described in Code
of Federal Regulations, title 16, section 1700.20, as in effect on January 1,
2015.
   CIGAR. Any roll of tobacco that is wrapped in tobacco leaf or in any other
substance containing tobacco, with or without a tip or mouthpiece, which is not
a cigarette as defined in M.S. § 297F.01, subd. 3, as may be amended from time
to time.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying with the
requirements of this chapter. Compliance checks involve the use of persons
under the age of 21 who purchase or attempt to purchase licensed products.
Compliance checks may also be conducted by the city or other units of
government for educational, research, and training purposes or for
investigating or enforcing federal, state, or local laws and regulations
relating to licensed products.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
Electronic delivery device includes, but is not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens,
mods, tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor. Electronic
delivery device includes any component part of a product, whether or not
marketed or sold separately. Electronic delivery device does not include any
product that has been approved or certified by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product, as a tobacco-dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is marketed and sold for such an
approved purpose.
   LICENSED PRODUCTS. The term that collectively refers to any tobacco,
tobacco-related device, electronic delivery device, or nicotine or lobelia
delivery product.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to cigars, cigarettes, or any other
licensed product, whether individually packaged or that has been removed from
its intended retail packaging and offered for sale. Loosies does not include
individual cigars with a retail price, after any discounts are applied and
before any sales taxes are imposed, of at least $4.00 per cigar.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a kiosk,
vehicle, or transportable shelter and not a fixed-address store front or other
permanent type of structure authorized for sales transactions.
   NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT. Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of such a
product, that is not a tobacco or an electronic delivery device as defined in
this section. Nicotine or lobelia delivery product does not include any product
that has been approved or otherwise certified for legal sale by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration as a tobacco-cessation product, a tobacco dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely
for that approved purpose.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where licensed products are
available for sale to the general public. Retail establishments shall include,
without limitation, grocery stores, tobacco products shops, convenience stores,
off-sale liquor stores, service stations, bars and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY. The open display of licensed products in any manner
where any person has access to the licensed products without the assistance or
intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s employee.
   TOBACCO. Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco that is
intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, or any component,
part, or accessory of a tobacco product including but not limited to
cigarettes; cigars; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp
cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour; cavendish;
plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse
scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms
of tobacco. Tobacco does not include any product that has been approved by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product, as a
tobacco-dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being
marketed and sold solely for such an approved purpose.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICE. Any rolling papers, wraps, pipes, or other device
intentionally designed or intended to be used with tobacco products. Tobacco-
related device includes components of tobacco-related devices or tobacco
products, which may be marketed or sold separately.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses licensed products upon the insertion of money, tokens,
or other form of payment by or on behalf of a person seeking to purchase the
licensed product.
   YOUTH-ORIENTED FACILITY. Any facility with residents, customers, visitors,
or inhabitants of which 25 percent or more are regularly under the age of 21 or
that primarily sells, rents, or offers services or products that are consumed
or used primarily by persons under the age of 21. Youth-oriented facility
includes, but is not limited to, schools, playgrounds, recreation centers, and
parks.
(Ord. 212, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 111.03 LICENSE.
   No person shall sell or offer to sell any licensed product without first
having obtained a license to do so from the city.
   (A)   Application. An application for a license to sell licensed products
shall be made on a form provided by the city. The application shall contain the
full name of the applicant, the applicant’s residential and business addresses
and telephone numbers, the names of the business for which the license is
sought and any additional information the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of
a completed application, the Clerk shall forward the application to City
Council for action at its next regularly scheduled meeting. If the Clerk shall
determine that an application is incomplete, the application shall be returned
to the applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the
application complete.
   (B)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it
may delay action for such reasonable period of time as necessary to complete
any investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If
the City Council approves the license, the Clerk shall issue the license to the
applicant. If the City Council denies the license, notice of the denial shall
be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant’s right to appeal
the Council’s decision.
   (C)   Term. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid for the
current calendar year in which the license is issued.
   (D)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this section may be
revoked or suspended as provided in this chapter.
   (E)   Transfers. All licenses issued are valid only on the premises for
which the license was issued and only for the person to whom the license was
issued. The transfer of any license to another location or person is
prohibited.
   (F)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed-location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed.
   (G)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   (H)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
processed in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the
expiration of the current license.
   (I)   Proximity to youth-oriented facilities. No license shall be approved
for any sales of licensed products within 1,000 feet of any youth-oriented
facility, as measured by a straight line between the space to be occupied by
the proposed licensee and the occupied space of the youth-oriented facility,
unless the applicant has been lawfully in the business of selling such products
in that location before the date this section was adopted.
   (J)   Proximity to other tobacco retailers. No license shall be approved for
any sales of licensed products within 2,000 feet of any other establishment
holding such a license, as measured by a straight line between the space to be
occupied by the proposed licensee and the occupied space of the nearest
existing licensee, unless the applicant has been lawfully in the business of
selling such products in that location before the date this section was
adopted.
(Ord. 212, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 111.04 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full.
(Ord. 212, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 111.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license include, but
are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 21 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to licensed products;
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products revoked
within the preceding 12 months of the date of the application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information;
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation from holding such a license.
   (B)   Except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of any
particular ground for denial does not mean that the city must deny the license.
   (C)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed it shall be revoked upon
the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under this
chapter.
(Ord. 212, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 111.06 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   In general. No person shall sell or offer to sell any licensed
product:
      (1)   By means of any type of vending machine;
      (2)   By means of loosies;
      (3)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, belladonna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other type of deleterious, hallucinogenic, or toxic or
controlled substance except nicotine and not naturally found in tobacco or
tobacco products;
      (4)    By any other means, or to any other person prohibited by federal,
state or other local law, ordinance, provision or other regulation.
   (B)   Legal age. No person shall sell any licensed product to any person
under the age of 21.
      (1)   Age verification. Licensees must verify, by means of government-
issued photographic identification, that every purchaser is at least 21 years
of age. Verification is not required for a person over the age of 30. That the
person appeared to be 30 years of age or older does not constitute a defense to
a violation of this subsection.
      (2)   Signage. Notice of the legal sales age and age verification
requirement must be posted prominently and in plain view at all times at each
location where licensed products are offered for sale. The required signage,
which will be provided to the licensee by the city, must be posted in a manner
that is clearly visible to anyone who is or is considering making a purchase.
   (C)   Self-service sales. No person shall allow the sale of licensed
products by any self service displays where the customer may have access to
those items without having to request the item from the licensee or the
licensee’s employee and where there is not a physical exchange of the licensed
product from the licensee or the licensee’s employee to the customer. All
licensed products must be stored behind the sales counter, in another area not
freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage unit not left
open and accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling licensed
products at the time this chapter is adopted must comply with this section
within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   Liquid packaging. No person shall sell or offer to sell any liquid,
whether or not such liquid contains nicotine, which is intended for human
consumption and use in an electronic delivery device, in packaging that is not
child-resistant. Upon request by the city, a licensee must provide a copy of
the certificate of compliance or full laboratory testing report for the
packaging used.
(Ord. 212, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 111.07 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of licensed products on the licensed
premises and the sale of such an item by an employee shall be considered a sale
by the license holder. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
prohibiting the city from also subjecting the employee to whatever civil
penalties the city deems are appropriate under this chapter, state law, or
other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 212, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 111.08 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises must be open to inspection by law enforcement or other
authorized city officials during regular business hours. From time to time, but
at least once per year, the city will conduct compliance checks. In accordance
with state law, the city will conduct at least one compliance check that
involves the participation of two persons: one person aged 15 to 17 and one
person aged 18 to enter licensed premises to attempt to purchase licensed
products. Prior written consent by a parent or guardian is required for any
person under the age of 18 to participate in a compliance check. Persons used
for the purpose of compliance checks will be supervised by law enforcement or
other designated personnel.
(Ord. 212, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 111.09 OTHER PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It is a violation of this chapter for any person to purchase or otherwise
obtain any licensed product on behalf of a person under the age of 21. It is
also a violation for any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a person under
the age of 21 to purchase or attempt to purchase any licensed product.
(Ord. 212, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 111.10 REVOCATION HEARING.
    Revocation or suspension of a license shall be preceded by a hearing before
the City Council. A hearing notice shall be given to the licensee at least ten
days prior to the hearing. The notice shall include the time and place of the
hearing and shall state the nature of the charge against the licensee.
(Ord. 212, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 111.11 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   (A)   Religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremonies or practices. Nothing in
this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco or tobacco-related device
to any person as part of an indigenous practice or lawfully recognized
religious, spiritual or cultural ceremony or practice.
   (B)   Reasonable reliance. It shall be an affirmative defense to the
violation of this chapter for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of
age as described by state law.
(Ord. 212, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 111.12 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)    Notice. A person violating this chapter may be issued, either
personally or by mail, a citation from the city that sets forth the alleged
violation and that informs the alleged violator of his or her right to a
hearing on the matter and how and where a hearing may be requested, including a
contact address and phone number.
   (B)   Hearings.
      (1)   Upon issuance of a citation, a person accused of violating this
chapter may request in writing a hearing on the matter. Hearing requests must
be made within ten days of the issuance of the citation and delivered to the
City Clerk or other designated city officer. Failure to properly request a
hearing within ten days of the issuance of the citation will terminate the
person’s right to a hearing.
      (2)   A designated city officer will set the time and place for the
hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and place will be mailed or
delivered to the accused violator at least ten days prior to the hearing.
   (C)   Hearing Officer. The City Council will designate a hearing officer.
The hearing officer will be an impartial employee of the city or an impartial
person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
   (D)   Decision. A decision will be issued by the hearing officer within ten
days of the hearing. If the hearing officer determines that a violation of this
chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officer’s reasons for
finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed, will be recorded in writing,
a copy of which will be provided to the city and the accused violator by in-
person delivery or mail as soon as practicable. If the hearing officer finds
that no violation occurred or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, those
findings will be recorded and a copy will be provided to the city and the
acquitted accused violator by in-person delivery or mail as soon as
practicable. The decision of the hearing officer is final, subject to an appeal
as described in this section.
   (E)   Costs. If the citation is upheld by the hearing officer, the city’s
actual expenses in holding the hearing, up to a maximum of $1,000, must be paid
by the person requesting the hearing.
   (F)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer must be
filed in County District Court within ten days of the date of the decision.
   (G)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 212, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 111.99 ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   Licensees.
      (1)   Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or whose employee
violated this chapter, will be charged an administrative fine of $200 for a
first violation. Failure to pay the fine within 30 days from the date of
invoice shall result in a two-day license suspension. A second violation within
12 months shall result in a fine of $500 and a five-day license suspension.
Failure to pay the fine within 30 days from the date of the invoice shall
result in an additional five-day license suspension. A third violation within
12 months, or for sales during a license suspension, shall result in license
revocation. Licensees whose licenses have been revoked shall not be eligible
for another tobacco product license for one year from the date of revocation.
The City Council may attach reasonable conditions to the reinstatement of a
revoked license.
      (2)   Other individuals. Individuals, other than persons under the age of
21 regulated by division (A)(3) of this section, who are found to be in
violation of this chapter will be charged an administrative fine of $50.
      (3)   Persons under the age of 21. Persons under the age of 21 who
violate this ordinance may only be subject to non-criminal, non-monetary civil
penalties such as tobacco-related education classes, diversion programs,
community services, or another penalty that the city determines to be
appropriate. The City Council will consult with court personnel, educators,
parents, children and other interested parties to determine an appropriate
penalty for persons under the age of 21 in the city. The penalty may be
established by ordinance and amended from time to time.
      (4)   Statutory penalties. If the administrative penalty authorized to be
imposed by M.S. § 461.12, as it may be amended from time to time, differ from
that established in this section, then the higher penalty will prevail.
   (B)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section prohibits the city
from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of this
ordinance by any person age 21 or older.
(Ord. 212, passed 10-15-2019)
CHAPTER 112: ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose and intent
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Application of this chapter
   
112.04   Location
   
112.05   Hours of operation
   
112.06   Operation
   
112.07   Licenses
   
112.08   License fees
   
112.09   Inspection
   
112.10   Expiration and renewal
   
112.11   Suspension
   
112.12   Revocation
   
112.13   Transfer of license
   
112.14   Non-conforming uses
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Findings. The City Board finds that adult-oriented businesses whose
services include sessions offered to adults conducted in private by members of
the same or opposite sex, and employing personnel with no specialized training,
are susceptible to operation in a manner contravening, subverting, or
endangering the morals of the community by being the site of acts or
prostitution, illicit sex, and occasions of violent crimes, and thus requiring
close inspection, licensing, and regulation. The City Board also finds that
control and regulation of commercial establishments of these types, in view of
the abuses often perpetrated, require intensive efforts by the Sheriff’s
Department and other departments and personnel of the city. As a consequence,
the concentrated use of city services detracts from and reduces the level of
service available to the rest of the community and thereby diminishes the
ability of the city to promote the general health, welfare, morals, and safety
of the community. The licensing of sexually-oriented businesses can aid in
monitoring sexually oriented businesses for adverse secondary effects on the
community and minimize the risk of criminal activity. The risk of criminal
activity and/or public health problems can be minimized through licensing as
prescribed in this chapter.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult-oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to:
         (a)   Prevent additional criminal activity within the city;
         (b)   Prevent deterioration of neighborhoods and its consequent
adverse effect on real estate values of properties within the neighborhood;
         (c)   Locate adult-oriented businesses away from residential areas,
schools, churches, parks, and playgrounds; and
         (d)   Prevent concentration of adult-oriented businesses within
certain areas of the city.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect
of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including adult-oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent
nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to adult-
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, nor to deny access by
distributors and exhibitors of adult-oriented entertainment to their intended
market.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS. Any establishment in which an adult use comprises more
than 10% of the floor area of the establishment in which it is located or which
comprises more than 20% of the gross receipts of the entire business operation.
   ADULT USE. An adult use is any of the activities and businesses described
below.
      (1)   ADULT USES. Include adult bookstores, adult motion picture
theaters, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult
steam room/bathhouse/sauna facilities, adult companionship establishments,
adult rap/conversation parlors, adult health/sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult
novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult
hotels/motels, adult body painting studios, and other premises, enterprises,
establishments, businesses, or places open to some or all members of the
public, at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction, or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas” which are capable of being seen by members of the public.
Activities classified as obscene as defined by M.S. § 617.241, as it may be
amended from time to time, are not included.
      (2)   ADULT USE - BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business
which provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether
transparent or non-transparent, to the body of a patron when the body is wholly
or partially nude in terms of “specified anatomical areas”.
      (3)   ADULT USE - BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for
the barter, rental, or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures,
slides, records, audio tape, videotape, digital recordings, or motion picture
film if the building or portion of a building is not open to the public
generally but only to one or more classes of the public, excluding any minor by
reason of age, and if a substantial or significant portion of the items are
distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description
of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (4)   ADULT USE - CABARET. A building or portion of a building for
providing dancing or other live entertainment, if the building or portion of a
building excludes minors by virtue of age and if the dancing or other live
entertainment is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction, or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (5)   ADULT USE - COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship
establishment which excludes minors by reason of age, and which provides the
service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion
between an employee of the establishment and a customer, if the service is
distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (6)   ADULT USE - CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor
which excludes minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion, if the service
is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (7)   ADULT USE - HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes
minors by reason of age, if the club is distinguished and characterized by an
emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (8)   ADULT USE - HOTEL OR MOTEL. Adult hotel or motel means a hotel or
motel from which minors are specifically excluded from patronage and where
material is presented which is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis
on matter depicting, describing, or relating to “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (9)   ADULT USE - MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health
club which restricts minors by reason or age, and which provides the services
of massage, if the service is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (10)   ADULT USE - MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATRE. A building or portion of
a building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting
material if the material is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas”.
      (11)   ADULT USE - MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business
is the provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the
intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the customers
and who engage in “specified sexual activities” or display “specified
anatomical areas” while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted by the customers.
      (12)   ADULT USE - MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public
is permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas”.
      (13)   ADULT USE - MOTION PICTURE THEATRE. A building or portion of a
building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if
the building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors
by reason of age and if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” for
observation by patrons therein.
      (14)   ADULT USE - NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal
activity the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which
are designed for sexual stimulation.
      (15)   ADULT USE - SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age,
and which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning,
relaxing, or reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (16)   ADULT USE - STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion
of a building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing, or reducing agent if the building or portion of a
building restricts minors by reason of age and if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis
on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered;
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region, or pubic hair;
         (b)   Buttock; and
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if opaquely
covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexually-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus; buggery; coprophagy; coprophilia; cunnillingus; fellatio;
necrophilia; pederasty; pedophelia; piquerism; sapphism; or zooerasty;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal, or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breast(s);
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments, or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged
in activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding, or other
physical restraint of such persons;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, or vaginal or anal
irrigation.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 112.03 APPLICATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Except as in this chapter specifically provided, no structure shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or altered, and no structure or
land shall be used for any purpose nor in any manner which is not in conformity
with this chapter. No adult-oriented business shall engage in any activity or
conduct or permit any other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or
about the establishment which is prohibited by any ordinance of the city, the
laws of the state, or the United States of America. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed as authorizing or permitting conduct which is prohibited or
regulated by other statutes or ordinances, including, but not limited to,
statutes or ordinances prohibiting the exhibition, sale, or distribution of
obscene material generally, or the exhibition, sale, or distribution of
specified materials to minors.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 112.04 LOCATION.
   No adult-oriented business shall be located in other than a Business Zone.
No adult-oriented businesses shall be located less than 500 feet from any
residential zoning district boundary, nor less than 2,800 feet from any church
site, public or private school site, day care facility, or park. In addition,
no adult-oriented business may be located within 150 feet of another adult-
oriented business. For purposes of this chapter, this distance shall be a
horizontal measurement from the nearest existing residential district boundary,
church site, school site, day care site, park site, or another adult-oriented
business site to the nearest boundary of the proposed adult-oriented business
site.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 112.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No adult-oriented site shall be open to the public from the hours of 7:00
p.m. to 9:00 a.m.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 112.06 OPERATION.
   (A)   Off-site viewing. An establishment operating as an adult-oriented
business shall prevent off-site viewing of its merchandise which, if viewed by
a minor, would be in violation M.S. Ch. 617, as it may be amended from time to
time, or other applicable federal or state statutes or local ordinances.
   (B)   Entrances. All entrances to the business, with the exception of
emergency fire exits which are not useable by patrons to enter the business,
shall be usable from a public right-of-way.
   (C)   Layout. The layout of the display areas shall be designed so that the
management of the establishment and any law enforcement personnel inside the
store can observe all patrons while they have access to any merchandise offered
for sale or viewing, including, but not limited to, books, magazines,
photographs, video tapes, recorded or digital images, or any other material.
   (D)   Illumination. Illumination of the premises’ exterior shall be adequate
to observe the location and activities of all persons on the exterior of the
premises.
   (E)   Signs. Signs for adult-oriented businesses shall comply with the
city’s sign regulations, and, in addition, signs for adult-oriented businesses
shall not contain representational depiction of an adult nature or graphic
descriptions of the adult theme of the operation. All signs shall be wall
signs. No merchandise or pictures of the products or entertainment on the
premises shall be displayed in window areas or in any area where they can be
viewed from a public street or sidewalk.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 112.07 LICENSES.
   (A)   Licenses required. All establishments, including any business
operating at the time this chapter becomes effective, operating or intending to
operate an adult-oriented business, shall apply for and obtain a license from
the City Clerk. A person is in violation of this chapter if he or she operates
an adult- oriented business without a valid license issued by the city.
   (B)   Applications. An application for a license must be made on a form
provided by the city.
      (1)   The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches.
      (2)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
section and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the appropriate state, county, and local law and codes by the health official,
Fire Chief, and building official.
      (3)   The application shall contain the address and legal description of
the property to be used; the names, addresses, phone numbers, and dates of
birth of the owner, lessee, if any, the operator or manager, and all employees;
the name, address, and phone number of two persons who shall be residents of
the state and who may be called upon to attest to the applicant’s, manager’s,
or operator’s character; whether the applicant, manager, or operator has ever
been convicted of a crime or offense other than a traffic offense and, if so,
complete and accurate information as to the disposition thereof, the names and
addresses of all creditors of the applicant, owner, lessee, or manager who have
extended credit for the purposes of constructing, equipping, maintaining,
operating, or furnishing or acquiring the premises, personal effects,
equipment, or anything incident to the establishment, maintenance, and
operation of the business.
      (4)   If the application is made on behalf of a corporation, joint
business venture, partnership, or any legally constituted business association,
it shall submit along with its application, accurate and complete business
records showing the names, addresses, and date of birth of all individuals
having an interest in the business, including partners, officers, owners, board
of directors, and creditors furnishing credit for the establishment,
acquisition, maintenance, and furnishing of the business.
      (5)   All applicants shall furnish to the city, along with their
applications, complete and accurate documentation establishing the interest of
the applicant and any other person having an interest in the premises upon
which the building is proposed to be located or the furnishings thereof,
personal property thereof, or the operation or maintenance thereof.
Documentation shall be in the form of a lease, deed, contract for deed,
mortgage deed, mortgage credit arrangement, loan agreements, security
agreements, and any other documents establishing the interest of the applicant
or any other person in the operation, acquisition, or maintenance of the
enterprise.
   (C)   Conditions for license approval. The City Clerk may recommend approval
of the issuance of a license by the city to an applicant within 30 days after
receipt of an application unless he or she finds one or more of the following
to be true:
      (1)   The applicant(s) or manager is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   The applicant(s) or an applicant’s spouse or domestic partner is
overdue or delinquent, or subject to a penalty imposed by law for the late
payment in their payment to the city, county, or state of taxes, fees, fines,
or penalties assessed against them or imposed upon them in relation to an adult
only entertainment business;
      (3)   The applicant(s) has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (4)   The applicant(s) or an applicant’s spouse or domestic partner has
been convicted of a violation of a provision of this section, other than the
offense of operating an adult only entertainment business without a license
within two years immediately preceding the application. The fact that a
conviction is being appealed shall have no effect;
      (5)   The applicant(s) is residing with a person who has been denied a
license by the city or any other state municipal corporation to operate an
adult only entertainment business within the preceding 12 months, or residing
with a person whose license to operate an adult only entertainment business has
been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (6)   The premises to be used for the adult only entertainment business
has not been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department, and the
building official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
the inspections shall be completed within 30 days from the date the application
was submitted, provided that the application contains all of the information
required by this chapter. If the application is deficient, the inspections
shall be completed within 30 days from the date the deficiency has been
corrected;
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid; or
      (8)   An applicant has been convicted of a crime involving any of the
following offenses:
         (a)   Any sex crimes as defined by M.S. §§ 609.293 through 609.352
inclusive, as it may be amended from time to time, or as defined by any
ordinance or statute in conformity therewith;
         (b)   Any obscenity crime as defined by M.S. §§ 617.23 through 617.299
inclusive, as it may be amended from time to time, or as defined by any
ordinance or statute in conformity therewith, for which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
         (c)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant or applicants spouse or domestic
partner.
   (D)   Requalification. An applicant who has been convicted of an offense
listed in division (C)(8) above may qualify for an adult-oriented business
license only when the time period required by division (C)(8) above has
elapsed.
   (E)   Posting. The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of
the person or persons to whom it is granted and all persons who have a
financial interest in the business, the expiration date, and the address of the
adult-oriented business. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at
or near the entrance to the adult-oriented business so that it may be read at
any time.
   (F)   City action. The City Board shall act to approve or disapprove the
license application within 60 days from the date the application was submitted,
provided that the application contains all information required by this
chapter. If the application is deficient, the Board shall act on the
application within 60 days from the date that the deficiency has been
corrected.
   (G)   Appeals. Within 30 days after the decision by the City Board, the
applicant may appeal to the District Court by serving a notice upon the City
Board Chairperson or City Clerk.
   (H)   Additional restrictions as to live entertainment.
      (1)   All performers, dancers, and persons providing live entertainment
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing,
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas in the
licensed facility or in areas adjoining the licensed premises where the
entertainment can be seen by patrons of the licensed premises shall remain at
all times a minimum distance of ten feet from all patrons, customers, or
spectators and shall dance or provide the entertainment on a platform intended
for the purpose, which shall be raised at least two feet from the level of the
floor on which patrons, customers, or spectators are located.
      (2)   No dancer, performer, or person providing live entertainment
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing,
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas in the
licensed premises or in areas adjoining the licensed premises where
entertainment can be seen by patrons or the licensed premises shall touch,
fondle, or caress any patrons, customers, or spectators.
      (3)   No customers, spectators, or patrons of a licensed premises shall
directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or performer, and no dancer or
performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patrons, customers, or
spectators.
      (4)   Except for licenses for a sexually-oriented motel, a licensee shall
not be open for business to the public from the hours of 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m.
      (5)   A licensee under this chapter shall be responsible for the conduct
of the sexually-oriented business being operated and shall not allow any
illegal activity to take place on or near the licensed premises, including, but
not limited to, prostitution, public indecency, indecent exposure, disorderly
conduct, or the sale or use of illegal drugs. Every act or omission by an
employee or independent contractor of the licensee constituting a violation of
this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the licensee, if the act or
omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge, or approval of the
licensee, or as a result of the licensee’s negligent failure to supervise the
employee’s or independent contractor’s conduct.
      (6)   No sales, consumption, or use of any alcoholic beverages shall be
permitted at any time within the licensed premises.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 112.08 LICENSE FEES.
   License fees shall be set by the City Board.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 112.09 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Access. An applicant or licensee shall permit health officials,
representatives of the Sheriff’s Department, Fire Department, and Building
Inspector to inspect the premises of an adult-oriented business for the purpose
of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   (B)   Refusal to permit inspections. A person who operates an adult-oriented
business or his or her agent or employee commits an offense if he or she
refuses to permit a lawful inspection of the premises by health officials,
representatives of the Sheriff’s Department, Fire Department, and Building
Inspection Division at any time it is occupied or open for business. Refusal to
permit inspections may result in the suspension of the license as provided in §
112.11.
   (C)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an
adult motel which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a
permanent or temporary habitation.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 112.10 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Expiration. Each license shall expire at the end of the calendar year
and may be renewed only by making application as provided in §
112.07(A). Application for renewal must be made at least 60 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 60 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   Denial of renewal. When the city denies renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
If, subsequent to denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the
renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 112.11 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Causes of suspension. The city may suspend a license for a period not
to exceed 30 days if it determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee
has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any provision of this
chapter;
      (2)   Engaged in the use of alcoholic beverages while on the adult-
oriented business premises other than at an adult hotel or motel;
      (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult-oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
      (4)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult-oriented
business premises; or
      (5)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage an adult-oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Notice. A suspension by the city shall be preceded by written notice
to the licensee and a public hearing. The notice shall give at least ten days’
notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of the
charges against the licensee. The notice may be served upon the licensee
personally, or by leaving the same at the licensed business premises with the
person in charge thereof.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 112.12 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Suspended licenses. The city may revoke a license if a cause of
suspension in §
112.11 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   Causes of revocation. The city shall revoke a license if it determines
that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the city during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the adult-oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in §
112.07(C)(8), for which the time period required in §
112.07(C)(8) has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime listed in §
112.07(C)(8) for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or
persons were employees of the adult-oriented business at the time the offenses
were committed; or
      (7)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, or masturbation to occur in or on the
licensed premises.
   (C)   Appeals. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license.
   (D)   Exceptions. Division (B)(7) above does not apply to adult motels as a
ground for revoking the license unless the licensee or employee knowingly
allowed the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or sexual contact to occur in a public place or within public view.
   (E)   Granting a license after revocation. When the city revokes a license,
the revocation shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued
an adult-oriented business license for one year from the date revocation became
effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the city finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective. If the license was revoked under division (B)(3) above, an applicant
may not be granted another license until the appropriate number of years
required under §
112.07(C)(8) has elapsed.
   (F)   Notice. A revocation by the city shall be proceeded by written notice
to the licensee and a public hearing. The notice shall give at least ten days’
notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of the
charges against the licensee. The notice may be served upon the licensee
personally, or by leaving the same at the licensed premises with the person in
charge thereof.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 112.13 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer this license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate an adult-oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 112.14 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Any adult use existing in the city that is not in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter as of the effective date of this chapter shall be
deemed a non-conforming use and shall become unlawful three years after the
date of enactment.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any section of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Each day
that a violation occurs shall be considered a separate offense. The city may
enforce any provision of this chapter by mandamus, injunction, or any other
appropriate civil remedy in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 88, passed 7-11-2006)
CHAPTER 113: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
113.01   Application
   
113.02   Purpose
   
113.03   Franchise required
   
113.04   Emergency use
   
113.05   Consumer protection and service standards
   
113.06   Regulation of rates
   
113.07   Franchise fee
   
113.08   Design and construction requirements
   
113.09   Programming decisions
   
113.10   Insurance
   
113.11   Maintenance of records
   
113.12   Franchise violation
   
113.13   Rights of individuals
§ 113.01 APPLICATION.
   This chapter applies to all cable television franchises operating and
maintaining cable television systems within the city.
(Ord. 59, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 113.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for and specify the means to
obtain the best possible cable television service to the public.
(Ord. 59, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 113.03 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   This chapter requires that no person, other than the city, may construct,
install, or operate a cable television system in the city without the granting
of a franchise. A franchise, once granted, shall not be transferable without
the consent of the City Board. In the event of a sale of the cable system by a
franchisee, the city shall have the right of first refusal to purchase the
cable system.
(Ord. 59, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 113.04 EMERGENCY USE.
   The city shall have the right of use of the system in the case of any
emergency or disaster.
(Ord. 59, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 113.05 CONSUMER PROTECTION AND SERVICE STANDARDS.
   Except as otherwise provided in the franchise agreement, the franchisee is
required to maintain one or more customer service and bill payment offices at
convenient locations within the service area. This chapter contains standards
relating to communication between customers and the franchisees, installation
of equipment, and resolution of service interruptions.
(Ord. 59, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 113.06 REGULATION OF RATES.
   The city reserves the right to regulate rates for basic cable service to the
extent not otherwise prohibited by law.
(Ord. 59, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 113.07 FRANCHISE FEE.
   The franchisee is required to pay a franchise fee as described in its
franchise agreement with the city.
(Ord. 59, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 113.08 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   This chapter regulates the location and construction of the franchisee’s
distribution facilities. The franchisee is required to construct, install,
operate, and maintain its system in a manner consistent with all applicable
laws and the Federal Communications Commission technical standards.
(Ord. 59, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 113.09 PROGRAMMING DECISIONS.
   All programing decisions are at the discretion of the franchisee provided,
however, that any change in the mix, quality, or level of service shall require
the prior approval of the city.
(Ord. 59, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 113.10 INSURANCE.
   The franchisee is required to maintain comprehensive liability insurance for
injury or death to a person or persons caused by the operations of the
franchisee and property damage insurance for any property damage caused by the
operations of the franchisee.
(Ord. 59, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 113.11 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   The franchisee is required to maintain complete sets of plans, records, and
maps showing the location of the cable system, copies of all petitions,
applications, communications, and reports submitted by the franchisee to the
Federal Communications Commission and various financial records.
(Ord. 59, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 113.12 FRANCHISE VIOLATION.
   This chapter contains a notice and hearing provision in the event of a
violation of this chapter or franchise agreement permitting the City Board to
order the cure of any violation or breach and with an ultimate penalty of
revocation of the franchise.
(Ord. 59, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 113.13 RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS.
   The franchisee shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, channel users, or general citizens on the
basis of race, color, religion, disability, national origin, age, gender, or
sexual preference. The franchisee is required to take reasonable steps to
prevent the invasion of subscribers’ or general citizens’ right of privacy or
other personal rights through the use of the system.
(Ord. 59, passed 12-2-1997)
CHAPTER 114: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
114.01   Business licenses required
   
114.02   Purpose
   
114.03   Definitions
   
114.04   License required
   
114.05   Term of license
   
114.06   Criteria for rejection
   
114.07   Liability insurance
   
114.08   Suspension and revocation
   
114.09   Display
   
114.10   Transfers
   
114.11   Conditions
§ 114.01 BUSINESS LICENSES REQUIRED.
   Business licenses shall be required for the following businesses: event
facility.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 114.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the event facility business license is to promote the general
welfare of the city and the long-term prosperity of its businesses, to prevent
nuisances, to prevent noise and other disorder, to protect existing
neighborhoods, and to limit the density of such uses in the community. The city
has determined that activities of businesses that are required to obtain
business licenses have the potential to adversely impact the health, safety and
welfare of the residents.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 114.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EVENT FACILITY. Any facility operated by or as a for-profit business or
nonprofit organization that hosts private outdoor or indoor gatherings of
people that do not exceed 12 hours in duration. The gatherings of people may
include, but are not limited to, events such as weddings or other ceremonies,
dances, festivals, picnics or any other gathering of a similar nature that the
city determines to be  consistent with and supportive of the rural and historic
character of the community. Private outdoor or indoor gatherings are gatherings
that are not open to the general public or ticketed and are not subject to the
city's Special Event Permit Ordinance (Ordinance No. 119).
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 114.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
    It shall be unlawful to operate an event facility within the city limits
without first obtaining a license as an event facility. An application and fee
shall be provided prior to the start of operations. Current holders of annual
operating permits pertaining to the operation of rural event facilities shall
not be required to obtain a license until their permits expire. Event
facilities are required to obtain an event facility license within 90 days of
the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 114.05 TERM OF LICENSE.
   An event facility license may be obtained from the City Clerk upon payment
of a fee as set forth in the city's fee schedule and these licenses shall run
from the date issued until the last day of the same year.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 114.06 CRITERIA FOR REJECTION.
   (A)   The city may deny application for an event facility license if the
applicant, in his or her business, organizational, or event operations, has
incurred citations for violation of city code or state statutes, if the
applicant has failed to provide the city with evidence of compliance with
workers' compensation insurance coverage requirements as required by M.S. §
176.182, or if the applicant owes the state at least $500 in delinquent taxes,
penalties or interest or has not filed tax returns pursuant to M.S. § 270C.72.
An applicant must provide his or her social security number or individual
taxpayer identification number and his or her Minnesota business identification
number to the city on the license application form.
   (B)   Except for the positions set forth in Minnesota Statutes, as it may be
amended from time to time, the City Clerk will not reject an applicant for a
license on the basis of the applicant's prior conviction unless the crime is
directly related to the license sought and the conviction is for a felony,
gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the City Clerk
rejects the applicant's request on this basis, the city shall notify the
applicant in writing of the following:
      (1)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
      (2)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in M.S. §
364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license; and
      (4)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 114.07 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   As part of its application, the applicant is required to demonstrate to the
city a current commercial general liability policy providing coverages for
damages for bodily injury and property damage which may arise from the
operations of the event facility. The applicant's commercial general liability
policy must have minimum limits of $1,000,000 per occurrence, $2,000,000 annual
aggregate. Failure to demonstrate proof of insurance constitutes a ground for
license denial. The applicant is required to maintain a current commercial
general liability policy with the minimum coverage limits at all times
applicant is operating an event facility.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 114.08 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Council may suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or revoke any
license for violation of any provision of this chapter or any applicable law or
regulation. The Council may suspend or revoke an event facility license if the
licensee engages in or permits gatherings that include the discharge of
firearms, competitions among motorized vehicles, or other events incompatible
with the community's character or development code regulations. No license
shall be suspended or revoked unless the licensee has been given written notice
and a public hearing. The notice shall give at least ten days notice of the
time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of the charges against
the licensee. The Council may, without any advance notice or hearing, suspend
any license pending a hearing on revocation for a period of not exceeding 15
days.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 114.09 DISPLAY.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided by the code, every license shall
be kept conspicuously posted on the premises, on or from which the business is
operated, and shall be exhibited to any person on request.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 114.10 TRANSFERS.
   No license shall be transferable to any other person, entity, or location
unless specifically provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 114.11 CONDITIONS.
   Every event shall be conducted in accordance with all applicable statutes,
regulations and ordinances.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 115: CANNABIS
Section
   
115.01   Administration
   
115.02   Registration of cannabis businesses
   
115.03   Requirements for cannabis businesses
   
115.04   Temporary cannabis events
§ 115.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Findings and purpose. The city makes the following legislative
findings:
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of M.S.
Ch. 342, as it may be amended from time to time, which authorizes the city to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare of city residents by regulating
cannabis businesses within the legal boundaries of Scandia.
      (2)   The city finds and concludes that the proposed provisions are
appropriate and lawful land use regulations for Scandia, that the proposed
amendments will promote the community's interest in reasonable stability in
zoning for now and in the future, and that the proposed provisions are in the
public interest and for the public good.
   (B)   Authority and jurisdiction. 
      (1)   The city has the authority to adopt this chapter pursuant to:
         (a)   M.S. § 342.13(c), as it may be amended from time to time,
regarding the authority of a local unit of government to adopt reasonable
restrictions of the time, place, and manner of the operation of cannabis
businesses and hemp businesses.
         (b)   M.S. § 342.22, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding
the local registration and enforcement requirements of cannabis retailers or
lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
         (c)   M.S. § 462.357, as it may be amended from time to time,
regarding the authority of a local authority to adopt zoning ordinances.
      (2)   This chapter shall be applicable to the legal boundaries of
Scandia.
   (C)   Enforcement. The City Administrator is responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the provisions
of this chapter or failure to comply with §
115.02(B) or any of its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is
punishable as defined by law.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-6-2024)
§ 115.02 REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Consent to registering of cannabis businesses. No individual or entity
may operate a cannabis retailer business or lower-potency hemp edible retailer
business within the city without first registering with the city. Any cannabis
retailer business or lower-potency hemp edible retailer business that sells to
a customer or patient without valid registration shall incur a civil penalty of
up to $2,000 for each violation.
   (B)   Compliance checks prior to retail registration. Prior to the issuance
of a registration, the city shall conduct a preliminary compliance check to
ensure compliance with local ordinances before a registration is issued.
   (C)   Registration and application procedure.
      (1)   Fees.
         (a)   A registration fee, as established in the city's fee schedule,
shall be charged to applicants depending on the type of license applied for.
         (b)   The initial registration fee shall include the initial retail
registration fee and the first annual renewal fee.
         (c)   Any renewal retail registration fee imposed by the city shall be
charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent renewal
thereafter.
      (2)   Application submittal. The city shall issue a registration to a
business with a state license that adheres to the requirements of M.S. §
342.22, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (a)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the city. Said form shall include, but is not
limited to:
            1.   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            2.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
            3.   The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought;
            4.   Certification that the applicant complies with the
requirements of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13, as it
may be amended from time to time; and
            5.   Such other information as the city shall require.
         (b)   The applicant shall include with the form:
            1.   The application fee as required in division (C)(1);
            2.   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM
license preapproval; and
            3.   Such other information as the city shall require.
         (c)   Once an application is considered complete, the City Clerk shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward the
application to the City Council for approval or denial.
         (d)   The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
      (3)   Application approval. 
         (a)   A registration application shall not be approved or renewed if
the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   A registration application that meets the requirements of this
chapter shall be approved.
      (4)   Annual compliance checks. The Washington County Sheriff’s Office
shall complete at minimum one compliance check per calendar year of every
cannabis business to assess if the business meets age verification
requirements, as required under M.S. § 342.22, subd. 4(b) and M.S. § 342.24, as
may be amended from time to time.
      (5)   Location change. A cannabis retailer business or lower-potency hemp
edible retailer business shall be required to submit a new application for
registration under division (C)(2) if it seeks to move to a new location still
within the legal boundaries of Scandia.
   (D)   Renewal of registration.
      (1)   A cannabis retailer business or lower-potency hemp edible retailer
business shall apply to renew registration on a form established by the city.
      (2)   A cannabis retail registration issued under this chapter shall not
be transferred.
      (3)   Renewal fees. The city charges a renewal fee for the registration
starting at the second renewal, as established in the city's fee schedule.
         (4)   Renewal application. The application for renewal of a retail
registration shall include, but is not limited to items required under division
(C)(2).
   (E)   Suspension of registration.
      (1)   When suspension is warranted. The city may suspend a registration
if it violates the ordinance of the city or poses an immediate threat to the
health or safety of the public. The city shall immediately notify the business
in writing the grounds for the suspension.
      (2)   Length of suspension.
         (a)   The suspension of a registration may be for up to 30 calendar
days, unless OCM suspends the license for a longer period. The business may not
make sales to customers if their registration is suspended.
         (b)   The city may reinstate a registration if it determines that the
violations have been resolved.
      (3)   Civil penalties. Subject to M.S. § 342.22, subd. 5(e), as it may be
amended from time to time, the city imposes a civil penalty, as specified in
the city's fee schedule, for registration violations, up to $2,000.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-6-2024)
§ 115.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   Hours of operation: cannabis businesses are limited to retail sale of
cannabis, cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-6-2024)
§ 115.04 TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS.
   (A)   Permit required for temporary cannabis events. A permit is required to
be issued and approved by the city prior to holding a temporary cannabis event.
   (B)   Permit and application procedure. A permit fee, as established in the
city's fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants for temporary cannabis
events.
   (C)   Application submittal and review. The city shall require an
application for temporary cannabis events.
      (1)   An applicant for a permit shall fill out an application form, as
provided by the city. Said form shall include, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
         (b)   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
and
         (c)   Such other information as the city may require.
      (2)   The applicant shall include with the form:
         (a)   The application fee as required in division (B); and
         (b)   A copy of the OCM cannabis event license application, submitted
pursuant to M.S. § 342.39, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   The application shall be submitted to the City Clerk or other
designee for review. If the designee determines that a submitted application is
incomplete, they shall return the application to the applicant with a notice of
deficiencies.
      (4)   Once an application is considered complete, the designee shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward the
application to the City Clerk for approval or denial.
      (5)   The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
      (6)   The application for a permit for a temporary cannabis event shall
meet the following standards:
         (a)   Temporary cannabis events shall only be held between the hours
of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
         (b)   The temporary cannabis event is setback a minimum of 100 feet
from any lot lines.
         (c)   On-site consumption of cannabis is not permitted.
         (d)   No off-site signage shall be permitted.
      (7)   A request for a temporary cannabis event that does not meet the
requirements of this section shall be denied. The city shall notify the
applicant of the standards not met and basis for denial.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-6-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   USE OF CANNABIS AND HEMP- DERIVED PRODUCT IN PUBLIC PLACES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Gambling Regulations
   
130.01   Purpose
   
130.02   Adoption of state law by reference
   
130.03   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
130.04   Definitions
   
130.05   Applicability
   
130.06   Lawful gambling permitted
   
130.07   Authorized organizations
   
130.08   Qualification
   
130.09   Location criteria for premises permits and bingo hall license
   
130.10   Application and local approval of premises permits
   
130.11   Local permits, excluded or exempted gambling
   
130.12   License and permit display
   
130.13   Notification of material changes to application
   
130.14   Designated trade area
   
130.15   Records and reporting
   
130.16   Hours of operation
Curfew
   
130.30   Restrictions on minors
   
130.31   Duties of parents or guardians
   
130.32   Duties of police officers
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative citations, see
Ch. 32
   City policies, see
Ch. 31
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
GAMBLING REGULATIONS
§ 130.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the
city, to prevent its commercialization, to ensure the integrity of operations,
and to provide for the use of net profits only for lawful purposes.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 130.02 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time, with
reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, provisions
relating to sales, and all other matters pertaining to lawful gambling, are
hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this subchapter as if set
out in full. It is the intention of the Council that all future amendments of
M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by
reference as if they had been in existence at the time this chapter was
adopted.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 130.03 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 349.213, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this subchapter,
additional restrictions on gambling within its limits beyond those contained in
M. S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 130.04 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 349.12, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
subchapter.
   BOARD. The State of Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   LICENSED ORGANIZATION. An organization licensed by the Board.
   LOCAL PERMIT. A permit issued by the city.
   TRADE AREA. This city, each city and township contiguous to this city, and
any additional area situated within the boundaries of Independent School
District No. 831.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 130.05 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall be construed to regulate all forms of lawful gambling
within the city.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 130.06 LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED.
   Lawful gambling is permitted within the city if the Council, by resolution
adopted by a majority of its members, authorizes lawful gambling to occur,
provided it is conducted in accordance with M.S. §§ 609.75 to 609.763,
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.23,
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, and this subchapter.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 130.07 AUTHORIZED ORGANIZATIONS.
   An organization shall not be eligible to conduct lawful gambling in the city
unless it meets the qualifications in M.S. § 349.16, subd. 2, as it may be
amended from time to time, and also meets at least one of the following
conditions:
   (A)   The organization has at least 15 members that are residents of the
city;
   (B)   The physical site for the organization’s headquarters or the
registered business office of the organization is located within the city or a
municipality contiguous to the city and has been located within the city or a
municipality contiguous to the city for at least two years immediately
preceding application for a license;
   (C)   The organization owns real property within the city and the lawful
gambling is conducted on the property owned by the organization within the
city;
   (D)   The physical site where the organization regularly holds its meetings
and conducts its activities, other than lawful gambling and fund raising, is
within the city or an adjacent city and has been located within the city or
adjacent city for at least two years immediately preceding application for a
license; or
   (E)   The organization is a fire relief organization that provides fire
protection services to the city.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 130.08 QUALIFICATION.
   The City Council shall not adopt a resolution approving a premises permit or
bingo hall license from any applicant:
   (A)   Which has an officer, director, or other person in a supervisory or
management position, who:
      (1)   Has ever been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Has ever been convicted of a crime involving gambling;
      (3)   Is not of good moral character and repute; or
      (4)   Has ever been convicted of assault, a criminal violation involving
the use of a firearm, or making terroristic threats.
   (B)   Which owes, or which has an officer, director, or other person in a
supervisory or management position who owes, delinquent local, state, or
federal taxes or is delinquent on any other city bill.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 130.09 LOCATION CRITERIA FOR PREMISES PERMITS AND BINGO HALL LICENSE.
   All organizations applying for a premises permit or bingo hall license must
meet criteria set forth herein relating to location of lawful gambling
activities.
   (A)   An organization may conduct lawful gambling only on premises it owns
or leases, except as authorized by M.S. § 349.18, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (B)   Lawful gambling in the city may be conducted only in the licensed
organization’s hall where it has its regular meetings or in a licensed on-sale
liquor, wine, and beer establishment.
   (C)   No location shall be approved unless it complies with the applicable
zoning, building, fire, and health codes of the city and other regulations
contained in this subchapter.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 130.10 APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling in the city
shall complete the city’s investigation form, submit copies of all state
gambling application forms, all records and reports required to be filed with
the State Gambling Control Board pursuant to M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended
from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and
submit any additional information required by the city.
   (B)   Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit or bingo hall
license or renewal of a premises permit or bingo hall license from the Board
shall file with the City Clerk an executed, complete duplicate application,
together with all exhibits and documents accompanying the application as filed
with the Board. The application and accompanying exhibits and documents shall
be filed not later than three days after they have been filed with the Board.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a premises
permit or bingo hall license, the City Clerk shall transmit the application to
the City Peace Officer for review and recommendation.
   (D)   The City Peace Officer shall investigate the matter and make a review
and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no event
later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (E)   Organizations or bingo halls applying for a state-issued premises
permit or bingo hall license shall pay the city a $100 investigation fee. This
fee shall be refunded if the application is withdrawn before the investigation
is commenced.
   (F)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (G)   The Council shall receive the City Peace Officer’s report and consider
the application within 45 days of the date the application was submitted to the
City Clerk.
   (H)   The Council shall, by resolution, approve or disapprove the
application within 60 days of receipt of the application.
   (I)   The Council may disapprove an application for issuance or renewal of a
premises permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule, or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years;
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule, or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances,
suppression of vice, and protection of public safety within the last three
years;
      (3)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at premises other than those for
which an on-sale liquor license has been issued;
      (4)   More than one licensed organization would be permitted to conduct
lawful gambling activities at one premises;
      (5)   Failure of the applicant to pay any investigation fee provided by
division (E) above within the prescribed time limit; or
      (6)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
   (J)   Any organization leasing premises for the conduct of lawful gambling
shall, upon request of the city, file with the city a copy of the lease within
one week after execution of the lease. Lease provisions for rental payments
shall be in strict compliance with the requirements of M.S.§ 349.18, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 130.11 LOCAL PERMITS, EXCLUDED OR EXEMPTED GAMBLING.
   (A)   No organization shall conduct lawful gambling excluded or exempted
from state licensure requirements by M.S. § 349.166, as it may be amended from
time to time, without a valid local permit.
   (B)   Applications for issuance or renewal of a local permit shall be on a
form prescribed by the city. The application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the organization requesting the permit;
      (2)   Name and address of the officers and persons accounting for
receipts, expenses, and profits for the event;
      (3)   Date of gambling occasion for which permit is requested;
      (4)   Address of premises where event will occur;
      (5)   Copy of rental or leasing arrangement, if any, connected with the
event, including rental to be charged to organization; and
      (6)   Estimated value of prizes to be awarded.
   (C)   The fee for a local permit shall be $15. The fee shall be submitted
with the application for a local permit.
   (D)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the issuance of the local permit.
   (E)   The Council may disapprove an application for issuance or renewal of a
local permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the organization of any state statute, state rule, or
city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years;
      (2)   Violation by the establishment leasing its premises for gambling of
any state statute, state rule, or city ordinance relating to the operation of
the establishment, including, but not limited to, laws relating to the
operation of the establishment, laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling,
controlled substances, suppression of vice, and protection of public safety
within the last three years;
      (3)   The organization has not been in existence in the city for at least
three consecutive years prior to the date of application;
      (4)   The organization does not have at least 15 active members;
      (5)   More than one licensed, qualified organization will be conducting
exempted or excluded lawful gambling activities at any one premises;
      (6)   Failure of the applicant to pay permit fee provided by division (C)
above within the prescribed time limit; or
      (7)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to the
health, safety, and welfare of the community.
   (F)   Local permits shall be valid for only the occasion or occasions they
are issued.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 LICENSE AND PERMIT DISPLAY.
   All permits issued under state law or this chapter shall be prominently
displayed during the permit year at the premises where gambling is conducted.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 130.13 NOTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CHANGES TO APPLICATION.
   An organization holding a state-issued premises permit or a local permit
shall notify the city in writing whenever any material change in the
information submitted in the application occurs within ten days of the change.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 130.14 DESIGNATED TRADE AREA.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct gambling within the city shall
expend 75% of its lawful purpose expenditures on lawful purposes conducted
within the city’s trade area.
   (B)   This section applies only to lawful purpose expenditures derived from
gambling conducted at a premises within the city’s jurisdiction.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 130.15 RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Organizations conducting lawful gambling shall file with the City
Clerk one copy of all records and reports required to be filed with the Board,
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time, and rules
adopted pursuant thereto, as they may be amended from time to time. The records
and reports shall be filed on or before the day they are required to be filed
with the Board.
   (B)   Organizations licensed by the Board shall file a report with the city
proving compliance with the trade area spending requirements imposed by §
130.14. Such report shall be made on a form prescribed by the city and shall be
submitted annually and in advance of application for renewal.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 130.16 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Neither lawful gambling nor exempt or excluded gambling shall be conducted
between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
CURFEW
§ 130.30 RESTRICTIONS ON MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 16 years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play in or out of an automobile, in or upon
the streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, public places and
public buildings, places of entertainment and amusement, vacant lots, and other
unsupervised places in the city between the hours of 9:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
the following day. It shall be unlawful for any minor who is 16 or 17 years of
age to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play, in or out of an automobile in or
upon the streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, public places
and public buildings, places of entertainment and amusement, vacant lots, and
other unsupervised places of the city between the hours of 12:00 midnight and
5:00 a.m. the following morning.
   (B)   Provided, however, that the provisions of the section do not apply to
a minor accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult person
having the care and custody of the minor, to a minor who is upon an emergency
errand, or other legitimate business directed by his or her parent, guardian,
or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor, or where the
presence of said minor in said place or places is connected with and required
by some legitimate business, trade, profession, or occupation in which said
minor is permitted by law to be engaged. Provided, further, however, that
nothing herein shall restrict or prevent a minor of any age from traveling to
and from a definite point of destination and departure so long as the minor
does not loiter, idol, wander, stroll, or play in the places during the hours
set forth in this section.
(Ord. 14, passed 9-16-1980) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.31 DUTIES OF PARENTS OR GUARDIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian, or adult person having charge
of a minor under the age of 18 years to permit such minor to engage in the
activities prohibited by this subchapter.
(Ord. 14, passed 9-16-1980) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.32 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   Each member of the police force while on duty is hereby authorized and
instructed to arrest, without warrant, any person violating the provisions of §
130.30. The person or persons so arrested shall, for a first violation of this
subchapter, be taken or sent by the officer to their homes and their parents or
guardians notified of such violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 14, passed 9-16-1980)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates:
         (a)   Any provision of §§
130.01 to
130.16;
         (b)   M.S. §§ 609.75 to 609.763, inclusive, as they may be amended
from time to time; or
         (c)   M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.191, as they may be amended from time to
time, or any rules promulgated under those sections, as they may be amended
from time to time, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   A local permit may be revoked or temporarily suspended for a
violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state rule, or
city ordinance relating to gambling. Additionally, a violation of §§
130.01 to
130.16 may result in a recommendation by the city to disapprove or not renew a
license or premises permit. The city may also revoke a premises permit for any
violation of §§
130.01 to
130.16 which is not corrected within ten days of notice of such violation from
the city.
      (3)   A license shall not be revoked or suspended until notice and an
opportunity for a hearing have first been given to the permitted organization.
The notice shall be personally served and shall state the provision reasonably
believed to be violated. The notice shall also state that the permitted
organization may demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the permit will
not be suspended until after the hearing is held. If the permitted organization
requests a hearing, the Council shall hold a hearing on the matter at least one
week after the date on which the request is made. If, as a result of the
hearing, the Council finds that an ordinance violation exists, then the Council
may suspend or revoke the permit.
      (4)   Nothing in §§
130.01 to
130.16 shall be construed to require the city to undertake any responsibility
for enforcing compliance with M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to
time, other than those provisions related to the issuance of premises permits
as required in M.S. § 349.213, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Upon a subsequent violation, any person violating any provision of §§
130.30 to
130.32 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $100 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days.
(Ord. 14, passed 9-16-1980; Ord. 100, passed 3-6-2007)
CHAPTER 131: USE OF CANNABIS AND HEMP-DERIVED PRODUCT
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Prohibited activity
   
131.03   Violation
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place excluding the following:
      (1)   A private residence, including a person’s curtilage or yard;
      (2)   Private property not generally accessible by the public, unless the
person is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower, cannabis
products, or hemp-derived consumer products on the property by the owner of the
property; or
      (3)   The premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit on-
site consumption use.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-2-2023)
§ 131.02 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   The unlawful consumption of beverages containing or classified as
cannabis flower, cannabis products, or hemp-derived as defined in M.S. §
342.101, is prohibited in all public places, including public streets,
sidewalks, and parking areas, except in a place where such is sold or served
under the authority of a license lawfully issued or except in a designated
picnic area within a public park. Glass containers are not allowed in a public
park.
   (B)   The unlawful smoking of cannabis flower, cannabis products, or hemp-
derived consumer products is prohibited in public places. Smoking is inhaling,
exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, pipe, or
any other lighted or heated product that is intended for inhalation. Smoking
includes carrying or using an activated electronic delivery device, as defined
in M.S. § 609.685.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-2-2023)
§ 131.03 VIOLATION.
   Any person engaging in the above noted prohibited activity in a public place
is guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-2-2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
151.   RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
      
152.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
153.   LAND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Soil Erosion Control
   
150.01   Authority
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Scope
   
150.04   Definitions
   
150.05   Excessive soil loss prohibited
   
150.06   Exemptions
   
150.07   Complaint
   
150.08   District determination of soil loss
   
150.09   Notice of excessive soil loss
   
150.10   Forward complaint to City Attorney
   
150.11   District court hearing
   
150.12   District assistance
   
150.13   Cost-share application
   
150.14   Sedimentation control plan for development activities
   
150.15   Variance
   
150.16   More restrictive standard controls
   
150.17   Adoption of state law
Agricultural and Wildlife Habitat Land
   
150.30   Purpose and intent
   
150.31   Definitions
   
150.32   Identification of preservation of heritage land
   
150.33   Feasibility reports for public improvements
   
150.34   Location of public improvements
   
150.35   Application for preservation heritage land status
   
150.36   Special assessments
   
150.37   Residence on heritage land
   
150.38   Policy applicability
   
150.39   Withdrawal of land as preservation heritage land
 
   
150.99   Penalty
SOIL EROSION CONTROL
§ 150.01 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to M.S. Ch. 40A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to encourage and guide the use of land in
accordance with its capabilities, to treat it according to its needs, to
prevent the degradation of lands, streams, and rivers, and to protect and
promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.03 SCOPE.
   This subchapter, and soil loss limits specified in this subchapter, applies
to all land within the city, including, but not limited to, agricultural land,
woodland, pasture land, and land subject to development activity.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. Use of land for the production of livestock, dairy
animals, dairy products, poultry or poultry products, fur-bearing animals,
horticultural or nursery stock, including sod, fruit, vegetables, forage and
cash grains, forestry, or bees and apiary products. Wetlands, pasture, and
woodlands accompanying land in agricultural use are also in AGRICULTURAL USE.
   CITY. The elected governing body of the City of Scandia, or its designated
officials or agents. Agents may include districts, water management
organization, joint powers boards, watershed districts, or other governmental
entities responsible for resource management within the city. After adopting a
soil loss ordinance, the city may enter into an agreement with its agent
allowing the agent to administer the functions and perform the duties of the
city set out in §§
150.07 to
150.11 and
150.14.
   CONSERVATION PLAN. A document listing a set of practices that when
implemented will decrease soil erosion to the soil loss limits on a particular
parcel of land.
   CONSERVATION PRACTICES. 
      (1)   Practices and standards containing a definition, purpose, and
conditions under which the practice applies, including design requirements and
specifications containing a statement of details required for installing a
conservation practice, including kinds, quality, and quantity of work and
materials needed to meet the standards.
      (2)   A CONSERVATION PRACTICE may be a permanent or temporary,
vegetative, or structural measure that when applied to the land will contribute
to the control of wind and water erosion and sedimentation. CONSERVATION
PRACTICES may be used in a development activity area or an agricultural use
area.
      (3)   Permanent practices are those that have an effective life of ten
years or more and include grassed waterways, terraces, field windbreaks, water
control structures, grade stabilization structures, sediment retention
structures, stripcropping, water and sediment control basins, and other
permanent practices approved by the state’s Board of Water and Soil Resources.
      (4)   Temporary practices include conservation tillage, contour farming,
grasses and legumes in rotation, emergency tillage, fabric filter barriers,
filter strips, stormwater inlet and outlet protection and any other cultural
practices approved by the state’s Board of Water and Soil Resources.
      (5)   The field office technical guide or other recognized technical
procedures must be used to design, install, and certify practices.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. A physical disturbance, excluding agricultural use, of
the land associated with activities that may result in sedimentation of
adjacent lands or waters. These activities include, but are not limited to,
clearing, grading, excavating, transporting, draining, and filling lands.
Federal, state, county, and municipal road construction designed and installed
according to Department of Transportation standard specifications for
construction are not DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.
   DISTRICT. A soil and water conservation district organized under M.S. Ch.
40A, as it may be amended from time to time.
   EROSION. Any process that wears away the surface of the land by the action
of water, wind, ice, or gravity. EROSION can be accelerated by the activities
of people and nature.
   EXCESSIVE SOIL LOSS. Soil loss that is greater than the soil loss limits set
out in §
150.15, or which causes sedimentation on adjoining land or in a body of water,
watercourse, or wetland.
   FIELD OFFICE TECHNICAL GUIDE. The guide developed by the United States
Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service and adopted by the
district. The TECHNICAL GUIDE contains methods and procedures by which the
various types of erosion can be estimated and conservation practice standards
and specifications required in the application of soil and water conservation
practices.
   LAND OCCUPIER. A person, firm, corporation, municipality, or other legal
entity that holds title to or is in possession of any land as owner, lessee,
renter, tenant, or otherwise. The term includes both the owner and the occupier
of the land if they are not the same.
   SEDIMENT. Solid mineral or organic material that, in suspension, is being
transported or has been moved from its original site by air, water, gravity, or
ice and has been deposited at another location.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process or action of depositing sediment that, upon
inspection, is determined to have been caused by erosion.
   SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLAN. A document listing a set of practices that, when
implemented, will decrease sedimentation to the allowable level on a particular
parcel of land.
   SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for growth of land plants.
   SOIL LOSS LIMIT. The maximum amount of soil loss from water or wind erosion,
expressed in tons per acre per year, allowed on a particular soil. The United
States Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service has prepared a soil
survey that sets out the soil loss tolerances, according to the Field Office
Technical Guide, for each soil found in the county. The aforementioned soil
survey, together with the tolerance and soil loss limits set forth therein, is
hereby adopted by reference as the official city soil survey and declared to be
a part of this subchapter. The official Washington County Soil Survey shall be
on file in the office of the Soil Conservation Service, County Auditor, and the
County Zoning Administrator as well as the City Clerk. The SOIL LOSS LIMIT for
each soil series found in the city shall be as set forth in the aforementioned
soil survey. Any other soil found in the city and not set forth in the soil
survey has a maximum soil loss tolerance of five tons per acre per year.
   SOIL LOSS TOLERANCE. The maximum level of soil erosion that will permit a
high level crop productivity to be sustained economically and indefinitely.
   TIME SCHEDULE. Must set times to implement, make satisfactory progress on,
and complete the sedimentation control plan.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.05 EXCESSIVE SOIL LOSS PROHIBITED.
   A person may not cause, conduct, contract for, or authorize an activity that
causes excessive soil loss.
   (A)   Agricultural activity. A land occupier shall:
      (1)   If engaged in an agricultural use, prevent excessive soil loss and
ensure that proper management and conservation practices are being applied to
the land;
      (2)   If using wooded or open land for pasture, ensure that proper
management is used to prevent excessive soil loss due to overgrazing or cattle
paths;
      (3)   If using wooded land for timber harvest, ensure that proper
management is used to prevent excessive soil loss; and
      (4)   If a body of water, watercourse, or wetland is located within an
agricultural use area, wooded or open land used for pasture, or a wooded area
used for lumber harvest, ensure that proper management and conservation
practices are being applied to the surrounding land.
   (B)   Development activity. A person engaged in a development activity that
will disturb land must submit a sedimentation control plan and time schedule
that will prevent excessive soil loss or sediment from damaging adjacent land,
bodies of water, watercourses, or wetlands, to the local government or its
agent for approval.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   An occupier of agricultural land is not violating §
150.05 if the district report, as developed through §
150.08(B), shows that existing farming practices and methods are being
effectively applied to control soil loss.
   (B)   A land occupier engaged in a development activity will not be required
to develop a sediment control plan and will not be considered in violation of §
150.05(B) when involved in one of the following activities:
      (1)   Minor land disturbance activities such as home gardens and
individual home landscaping, repairs, and maintenance work;
      (2)   Construction, installation, maintenance of electric, telephone, and
utility lines or individual service connection to utility lines;
      (3)   Septic tank lines or drainage fields unless included in an overall
plan for a land development activity relating to construction of a building to
be served by the septic tank system;
      (4)   Preparation for single-family residences separately built, greater
than 1,000 feet from all public waters identified as such under the provisions
of the county shoreland management ordinance, unless in conjunction with
multiple construction in subdivision development;
      (5)   Disturbance of land areas less than 10,000 square feet for
commercial or noncommercial uses, except that the city may reduce this
exception to a smaller area of disturbed land or qualify the conditions under
which this exception applies;
      (6)   Installation of fence, sign, telephone, and electric poles and
other kinds of posts or poles;
      (7)   Emergency work or repairs to protect life, limb, or property; or
      (8)   Mining operations being conducted under Ord. 28.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.07 COMPLAINT.
   (A)   When appropriate. An adversely affected land occupier, an elected or
appointed official of the city, or a district board member may submit a signed,
written complaint to the city if conditions exist that indicate there is
excessive soil loss from a tract of land.
   (B)   Elements of complaint. The signed, written complaint must contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the allegedly offending land occupier;
      (2)   The location of the tract of land with the alleged excessive soil
loss;
      (3)   Other land or water that is allegedly being affected by the
excessive soil loss; and
      (4)   A description of the nature of the alleged excessive soil loss and
resulting sedimentation.
   (C)   Complaint to district. The city shall submit the complaint to the
district for soil loss determination. The city shall notify the alleged
offending land occupier of the complaint and that the district will be
contacting the land occupier to review the site, determine the severity of the
problem, and assist the land occupier in correcting the problem. The local
government shall also name a contact person for further assistance.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.08 DISTRICT DETERMINATION OF SOIL LOSS.
   (A)   Application. The district shall determine the average annual soil loss
in tons per acre per year for the tract of land cited in the complaint.
   (B)   Entry for inspection. The district may enter public or private land to
make an inspection to determine soil loss or to complete the report. The land
occupier must be notified of the time of the inspections and be given an
opportunity to be present when the inspection is made.
      (1)   The land occupier shall be notified of the time of inspection ten
days prior to the date of the inspection.
      (2)   The notice shall be delivered either by personal service or by
certified mail.
      (3)   If the owner of the property and the occupier of the residence
differ, both shall receive notification under the procedure stated above.
   (C)   Report. The district shall submit a report to the city that states the
average soil loss in tons per acre per year for each tract of land and whether
that soil loss is excessive under the applicable soil loss limits.
      (1)   If the soil loss is excessive, the report must include
identification of existing farming practices and a preliminary conservation
plan and time schedule that will prevent excessive soil loss.
      (2)   If the district report shows that soil loss from the tract of land
is equal to or below the soil loss tolerance for that soil series, the city may
dismiss the complaint and notify the land occupier.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.09 NOTICE OF EXCESSIVE SOIL LOSS.
   (A)   Notice. The city shall issue a notice of excessive soil loss to the
land occupier. This notice shall:
      (1)   Describe the land and state the extent to which soil loss exceeds
the soil loss limits;
      (2)   Be delivered by either personal service or by certified mail; and
      (3)   State a time, no more than 90 days after the date of delivery of
the order, by which mediation must be commenced.
   (B)   Appointment of mediator. The city may appoint the Planning and Zoning
Director, a Planning Commissioner, or other city official to act as mediator.
The city may also contract with a mediation center to provide mediation
services.
   (C)   Settlement. The land occupier and the city must attempt to agree on a
conservation plan and time schedule that will reduce soil loss to the local
soil loss limits.
   (D)   Filing of settlement. A mediated settlement must be approved by the
local government and the land occupier, put in writing, and filed with the
county.
   (E)   Cost-share funds. The land occupier has 90 days after the settlement
is filed to apply for state cost-share funds that will provide 75% of the cost
of the permanent conservation practices. Only 50% cost-share may be provided if
the application is not made within 90 days after the settlement is filed. The
land occupier must apply for 50% cost-share within 270 days after the mediated
settlement is filed.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.10 FORWARD COMPLAINT TO CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   If the city and land occupier do not reach a mediated settlement, or
if the land occupier refuses to participate in mediation, the city shall
forward the complaint to the City Attorney.
   (B)   The City Attorney may petition the district court for a hearing under
§
150.11.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.11 DISTRICT COURT HEARING.
   (A)   When a hearing takes place. If the land occupier and the city do not
reach a mediated written agreement or if the land occupier has refused
mediation, the City Attorney may petition the district court for a hearing. The
land occupier may present a conservation plan and time schedule as an
alternative to the city’s conservation plan and time schedule. The court shall
follow the procedure and the criteria set out at Minn. Rules part 8400.4055 in
issuing an order for the implementation of a conservation plan and time
schedule.
   (B)   Cost-share funds. If the court orders the implementation of:
      (1)   The land occupiers conservation plan and time schedule, amends the
conservation plan and time schedule, or develops a new conservation plan and
time schedule, the land occupier is eligible to apply for 75% cost-share funds
for permanent conservation practices. The land occupier must apply for the
cost-share 90 days after the court order. If the land occupier does not apply
within 90 days for the cost share funds, the cost-share must be reduced to 50%.
The court shall establish a time when the land occupier is not eligible for
cost-share funds if an application is not made; or
      (2)   The conservation plan and time schedule developed by the city the
land occupier shall be eligible for 50% cost-share funds if the land occupier
applies within 90 days after the court order.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.12 DISTRICT ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   A land occupier who has filed a mediated written settlement under §
150.09(D) or who has received a court order under §
150.11 may request the district to assist in the planning, design, and
application of practices necessary to reduce soil loss to the soil loss limits
set out in §
150.04.
   (B)   The district must give the land occupier a high priority for technical
and cost-share funds assistance.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.13 COST-SHARE APPLICATION.
   The method of application and eligibility requirements for cost-share funds
shall follow Minn. Rules parts 8400.0100 to 8400.2900. If any other state or
federal cost-share funds are used, the method of application and eligibility
requirements shall follow the current state or federal guidelines.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.14 SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLAN FOR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   A person engaged in a development activity that will disturb land must
submit a sedimentation control plan and time schedule that will prevent
excessive soil loss or sediment from damaging adjacent land, bodies of water,
watercourses, or wetlands to the city or its agent for approval.
   (B)   A sedimentation control plan and time schedule must specify how the
movement of soil and damage to other lands and regions will be minimized during
the construction process. These methods include, but are not limited to, the
use of temporary and permanent seedings, fabric, plastic, or straw barriers,
mulch, sediment control basins, or other conservation practices adequate to
prevent erosion and sediment damage. A sedimentation control plan is not
required for the following development activities:
      (1)   Minor land disturbance activities such as home gardens and
individual home landscaping, repairs, and maintenance work;
      (2)   Construction, installation, or maintenance of electric and
telephone utility lines or individual service connection to the utility lines;
      (3)   Septic tank lines or drainage field unless included in an overall
plan for a land development activity relating to construction of a building to
be served by the septic tank system;
      (4)   Preparation for single-family residences separately built, greater
than 1,000 feet from Halfbreed Lake (Sylvan Lake), Bone Lake, Goose Lake, and
Big Marine Lake, unless in conjunction with multiple construction in
subdivision development;
      (5)   Disturbance of land areas less than 10,000 square feet for
commercial or noncommercial uses, except that the governing body of the local
unit of government may reduce this exception to a smaller area of disturbed
land or quality the conditions under which this exception applies;
      (6)   Installation of fence, sign, telephone, and electric poles and
other kinds of posts or poles; and
      (7)   Emergency work and repairs to protect life, limb, or property.
   (C)   (1)   The following must be addressed in developing and implementing a
sedimentation control plan:
         (a)   Stabilization of denuded areas and stockpiles;
         (b)   Establishment of permanent vegetation;
         (c)   Protection of adjacent areas;
         (d)   Timing and stabilization of sediment trapping measures;
         (e)   Use of sediment basins;
         (f)   Stabilization of cut and fill slopes;
         (g)   Stormwater management for controlling off-site erosion;
         (h)   Stabilization of waterways and outlets;
         (i)   Storm sewer inlet protection;
         (j)   Working in or crossing water bodies;
         (k)   Underground utility construction;
         (l)   Construction of access roads;
         (m)   Disposition of all temporary measures; and
         (n)   Maintenance of all temporary and permanent urban conservation
practices.
      (2)   The time schedule accompanying the sedimentation control plan must
establish deadlines for the implementation and completion of each phase or
element of the sedimentation control plan.
   (D)   The state’s Construction Site Erosion and Sediment Control Planning
Handbook shall be the minimum planning standard for a sedimentation control
plan. Any other procedures must be approved by the local unit of government and
the district prior to its use.
   (E)   Any conservation practice developed for the sedimentation control plan
may not be located in violation of any existing ordinance the city is currently
enforcing.
   (F)   (1)   The city may appoint the Zoning or Planning Director, Building
Inspector, engineer, or district to review the sedimentation control plan and
time schedule. The city must forward the sedimentation control plan and time
schedule to the appointed reviewer within seven days of receiving the
sedimentation control plan and time schedule from the land occupier.
      (2)   The appointed reviewer must review the sedimentation control plan
and time schedule within 21 days of receiving the plan from the city. The city
shall notify the land occupier of its decision after receipt of the comments
from the reviewer and no more than 28 days after receiving the sedimentation
control plan and time schedule form the land occupier.
   (G)   (1)   If the reviewer determines that the sedimentation control plan
and time schedule will control sedimentation, the city shall issue a permit
that authorizes the development activity contingent upon the implementation and
completion of the sedimentation control plan.
      (2)   If the reviewer determines that the sedimentation control plan and
time schedule do not control sedimentation, the city shall not issue a permit
for the development activity. The sedimentation control plan and time schedule
shall be re-submitted for approval before the development activity begins.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.15 VARIANCE.
   A land occupier may petition the local government for a variance from this
subchapter. The land occupier must document in the variance the economic
hardship or technical infeasibility for the petition.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.16 MORE RESTRICTIVE STANDARD CONTROLS.
   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this subchapter and
the provisions of an erosion control ordinance adopted by any township or home
rule or statutory city, the more restrictive standard prevails.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
§ 150.17 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   Minn. Rules parts 8400.4000 to 8400.4075 are incorporated by reference into
this subchapter. The priority cost-share assistance contract is incorporated by
reference into this subchapter.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
AGRICULTURAL AND WILDLIFE HABITAT LAND
§ 150.30 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The city recognizes the value of farm land and undeveloped land. Such
land conserves and enhances soil and water resources to ensure long-term
quality and productivity. It is the policy of the city to encourage the use of
such land for long-term food production, economic diversity, recreational
opportunities, aesthetic needs and historical significance. Such lands provide
open space and add to the quality of life in the city. Such lands and the
business of crop production have long been an integral part of the identity and
history of the community.
   (B)   Whenever land urbanization occurs, with accompanying public road,
sewer, and water improvements, commercial crop land and undeveloped land is
many times prematurely converted to an urban use because of the imposition of
special assessments for such utilities. It is not the policy of the city to
prohibit or hinder land urbanization. Such urbanization, however, should occur
in a timely, methodical, and orderly fashion. The purpose of the policy herein
is to protect commercial crop land and undeveloped open spaces from
indiscriminate and disruptive takings for public improvements and to allow such
lands to continue to be used for crop land and wildlife habitat, even though
special assessments may be levied against such land. It is the city’s policy to
discourage premature conversion of commercial crop or undeveloped land to an
urbanized use. This policy provides a balance between preservation of a
valuable economic and natural resource and urbanization.
(Ord. 45, passed - -1993)
§ 150.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. A tenant, renter, lessee, or other entity engaged in production on
the subject land of the fruits, vegetables, nursery stock, plants, crops, or
forage listed in the definition of preservation heritage land.
   OWNER. The fee owner or contract vendee in possession of the subject
property. The OWNER must be an individual person or a general partnership of
individual persons or a family farm trust or family farm corporation organized,
under M.S. § 500.24, as it may be amended from time to time.
   PRESERVATION HERITAGE LAND. A tract, or a portion thereof, measuring at
least 20 acres in size, which meets the following requirements for agricultural
or wildlife habitat land. Agricultural land must meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   Is actively and exclusively used by the owner or operator for
commercial production of any of the following or a combination thereof:
         (a)   Fruits;
         (b)   Vegetables;
         (c)   Nursery stock, such as nursery trees and shrubs;
         (d)   Greenhouse plants;
         (e)   Agronomic crops including grains;
         (f)   Forage such as hay and silage, including pasture land or grazing
land; and
         (g)   Livestock
      (2)   Has been so actively and exclusively used by the owner or operator
for such commercial purposes for at least three continuous years immediately
prior to obtaining eligibility status under §
150.35 and continuing thereafter;
      (3)   For at least three continuous years prior to obtaining eligibility
status under §
150.35, and continuing thereafter, the owner or operator must have earned at
least $500 gross income plus $10 per tillable acre on average per year from the
subject preservation heritage land by means of the commercial production listed
in division (2) above. This income requirement shall be evidenced by filing
with the city a true copy of Schedule F filed by the owner or operator with the
Federal Internal Revenue Service; and
      (4)   The products listed in division (1) above must be offered for sale
at wholesale or retail.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS. Those special assessments levied by the city for
asphalt roads, sewer, and water; including lateral sewer and water benefits,
and trunk line area sewer and water benefits.
   WILDLIFE HABITAT LAND. Includes woods, wood lots, wetlands, and other open
spaces in their natural state. The owner or operator must meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   The land must be managed for good wildlife habitat.
      (2)   The land must provide the four basic needs of wildlife: food;
water; shelter; and space. High species diversity is desirable, including a
wide array of trees, shrubs, grasses, and annual and perennial flowering
plants. Native plant species are recommended. The land shall not include
livestock, vehicle storage, or buildings.
      (3)   A land management plan must be filed with the city which contains
soil, water, and wildlife conservation site management including:
         (a)   A list of the primary overstory and understory plant species and
approximate percentage of each; and
         (b)   A diagram showing the management design plan for the land, with
current and future development projected for the next ten years.
      (4)   Plans approved by or developed with the assistance of the County
Soil and Water Conservation District, the state’s Department of Natural
Resources, and/or other conservation organizations are highly desirable but not
mandatory.
(Ord. 45, passed - -1993)
§ 150.32 IDENTIFICATION OF PRESERVATION OF HERITAGE LAND.
   Preservation heritage land shall not be considered a separate zoning
district or a separate classification under the city’s comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 45, passed - -1993)
§ 150.33 FEASIBILITY REPORTS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever the City Engineer prepares a feasibility report for public
improvements, the City Engineer shall indicate the amount and location of the
actual or potential preservation heritage land that may be affected by the
public improvements and that may be subject to special assessments resulting
from the improvements. The feasibility report shall also indicate the financial
impact that the policy herein has on financing the subject public improvements
or bonding for the public improvements.
(Ord. 45, passed - -1993)
§ 150.34 LOCATION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Public improvements made by the city, including sewer, water, street
improvements, and park trails, shall be located in a manner so as cause the
least possible disruption to preservation heritage land. Where possible, the
public improvements, including park trails, shall be located along the
boundaries of preservation heritage land, rather than through or across the
land.
(Ord. 45, passed - -1993)
§ 150.35 APPLICATION FOR PRESERVATION HERITAGE LAND STATUS.
   An owner or operator may make application for preservation heritage land
status at any time prior to receiving notice of a public improvement hearing.
Upon receiving notice of a public improvement hearing, any owner or operator
desiring preservation heritage land status shall make application to the city
for approval of the status. The application shall be filed with the City Clerk
no later than the date set for the public improvement hearing. If the
application has not been timely made and approved, the land shall not qualify
as preservation heritage land and shall not qualify for the benefits described
in §
150.36 or any of the other benefits described in this subchapter. The City
Board shall make a determination as to whether the land qualifies for
preservation heritage status within 45 days after the public improvement
hearing or within 45 days of the first regular City Board meeting after receipt
of the application if the application is not made in connection with a public
improvement hearing.
(Ord. 45, passed - -1993)
§ 150.36 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   The notice for the public improvement hearing shall advise the
affected land owners that the city has a policy with respect to preservation
heritage land and deferment of special assessments in connection therewith and
that the policy in its entirety is available at the office of the City Clerk.
The notice of hearing shall further advise the affected land owners that
application for preservation land status must be filed with the Clerk on or
before the date of the public improvement hearing.
   (B)   The application shall be made under oath by the owner or operator on a
form provided by the City Clerk in which the necessary eligibility requirements
for preservation heritage land status are listed.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
150.37, if the application is approved, the special assessments shall be
deferred for preservation heritage land upon the following terms and
conditions.
      (1)   A deferment shall be granted only if the property meets the
definition of preservation heritage land.
      (2)   The deferment shall expire upon the first to occur of the
following:
         (a)   The land no longer qualifying as preservation heritage land
under the terms of this subchapter;
         (b)   The withdrawal by the owner or operator of the land from
preservation heritage status;
         (c)   The sale or transfer of the property without the buyer or
transferee making application for continued preservation heritage land status
to the City Clerk within 60 days of the sale or transfer;
         (d)   The subdivision or platting of the property; or
         (e)   Fifteen years from the date of the adoption of the assessment
roll.
      (3)   Upon expiration of the special assessment deferment, the principal
balance of the deferred special assessments together with interest at the rate
established in the resolution establishing the assessment shall be paid in:
         (a)   Five annual installments; or
         (b)   The number of years remaining on the original bond issue, if
any, whichever is greater.
   (D)   To the first installment shall be added interest on the entire
assessment at the rate established in the resolution establishing the
assessment until December 31 of the year in which the deferment ceases.
Interest at the same rate shall accrue on this amount until December 31 of the
year in which the first installment is payable, and to each subsequent
installment shall be added interest for one year on all unpaid installments.
The owner, may, at any time thereafter, pay to the City Treasurer, the entire
amount of the assessment remaining unpaid with interest accrued to December 31
in the year in which the payment is made. The payment must be made before
November 15 or interest will be charged through December 31 of the next
succeeding year.
   (E)   Whenever any deferment is granted, the city shall file with the County
Auditor and record with the County Recorder a resolution memorializing the
terms of the deferment with respect to the subject preservation heritage land.
   (F)   The City Board shall on an annual basis monitor the status of
preservation heritage land to which a deferment has been granted. When the
deferment ceases, the City Clerk shall send to the affected landowner by
November 15 of the year in which the deferment ceases a notice advising the
landowner that the deferment has ceased and that the special assessments will
become due and payable over equal installments beginning with the year
thereafter. The notice shall state the number of installments calculated
according to division (D) above and the total amount that has become payable
calculated according to division (D) above. The notice shall also state the
interest rate on the installment balance. The owner may appeal to the City
Board the determination that the deferment has ceased; the appeal must be made
in writing and within 30 days after the City Clerk has sent notice to the owner
that the deferment has ceased.
(Ord. 45, passed - -1993)
§ 150.37 RESIDENCE ON HERITAGE LAND.
   On preservation heritage land on which is located a residence, in current
use, the special assessments shall be levied against one unit as defined in the
city assessment policy and shall not be deferred. Any remaining units contained
in the preservation heritage land shall be deferred.
(Ord. 45, passed - -1993)
§ 150.38 POLICY APPLICABILITY.
   The policy stated herein and the availability of deferments for special
assessments shall not apply to any public improvement project for which the
public improvement hearing has been held prior to the effective date of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 45, passed - -1993)
§ 150.39 WITHDRAWAL OF LAND AS PRESERVATION HERITAGE LAND.
   If an owner has obtained the status of preservation heritage land and no
longer wishes the status, the owner, by written notice to the city, may
withdraw the land from the status, in such case, the benefits afforded by this
subchapter and any deferment of special assessments granted by this subchapter
shall cease. Land may change status, from agricultural to wildlife habitat
land, or the reverse, and retain the designation as preservation heritage land
as long as the land meets the requirements of this subchapter for the new
classification.
(Ord. 45, passed - -1993)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A land occupier who does not comply with the provisions of the
mediated written agreement, as provided by §
150.09, is subject to a civil penalty up to $500.
   (C)   If the land occupier does not comply with the provisions of the court
order, as provided in §
150.11, the land occupier is subject to a civil penalty up to $500.
   (D)   A person engaged in a development activity who does not secure a
sedimentation control plan and time schedule or make satisfactory progress to
complete the plan and schedule, as provided by §
150.14, is subject to a civil penalty of $500. The city shall file the
complaint with the City Attorney.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-20-1990)
CHAPTER 151: RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Purpose and intent
   
151.02   Election to manage the public rights-of-way
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Administration
   
151.05   Registration and right-of-way occupancy; general prohibitions
   
151.06   Registration information
   
151.07   Reporting obligations
   
151.08   Permit requirement
   
151.09   Permit applications
   
151.10   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
151.11   Action on small wireless facility permit applications
   
151.12   Permit fees
   
151.13   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
151.14   Joint applications
   
151.15   Supplementary applications
   
151.16   Other obligations
   
151.17   Denial of permit
   
151.18   Installation requirements
   
151.19   Inspection
   
151.20   Work done without a permit
   
151.21   Supplementary notification
   
151.22   Revocation of permits
   
151.23   Mapping data
   
151.24   Location and relocation of facilities
   
151.25   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
151.26   Damage to other facilities
   
151.27   Right-of-way vacation
   
151.28   Indemnification and liability
   
151.29   Abandoned and unusable facilities
   
151.30   Appeal
   
151.31   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
Materials on Street, Sidewalk, or Right-of-Way
   
151.45   Obstructing streets, sidewalks, or rights-of-way
   
151.46   Unopened streets
   
151.47   Additional policies and standards incorporated
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the
city, and to ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of its
rights-of-way, the city strives to keep its rights-of- way in a state of good
repair and free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (B)   Accordingly, the city hereby enacts this new chapter relating to
right-of-way permits and administration. This chapter imposes reasonable
regulations on the placement and maintenance of facilities and equipment
currently within the city’s rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some
future time. It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of governmental
agencies separate from the city. Under this chapter, persons excavating and
obstructing the city’s rights-of-way will bear financial responsibility for
their work. Finally, this chapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and
projected costs from persons using the city’s rights-of-way.
   (C)   This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session Laws,
Chapter 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the “Act”), as they may be amended from time to
time, and 2017 Minn. Laws, Ch. 94, Art. 9, amending certain portions of the
Act, and the other laws governing applicable rights of the city and right-of-
way users. This chapter shall also be interpreted consistent with Minn. Rules
parts 7819.0050 to 7819.9950 and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560 where possible. To the
extent any provision of this chapter cannot be interpreted consistently with
the aforementioned Minn. Rules, that interpretation most consistent with the
Act and other applicable statutory and case law is intended. This chapter shall
not be interpreted to limit the regulatory and police powers of the city to
adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety,
and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.02 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the city hereby elects, pursuant to
§ 237.163, subd. 2(b) of the Act, to manage rights-of-way within its
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from another discrete portion of the facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned
unless declared so by the right-of-way user, unless 60 days pass after a
written notice is delivered from the city to the right-of-way user, inquiring
as to whether the facility is abandoned, and no response is received from the
right-of-way user.
   ACT. M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163, 237.79, 237.81, and 238.086, as they
may be amended from time to time.
   CITY. The City of Scandia, Minnesota, its elected officials, officers,
employees, or agents.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure or utility pole that is owned privately or by the
city or other governmental unit.
   COLLOCATION AGREEMENT. The small wireless facility collocation and lease
agreement, utilized by the city in compliance with § 237.163, subd. 3a(f) of
the Act.
   COMMISSION. The State of Minnesota Public Utilities Commission.
   CONSTRUCTION SECURITY. Any of the following forms of security provided at
permittee’s option:
      (1)   Cash deposit;
      (2)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, subd. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   Irrevocable letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city,
with automatic renewal provisions;
      (4)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city; or
      (5)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct the right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules part 7819.1100, means the cost to
achieve a level of restoration, as determined by the city at the time the
permit is issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration as set forth in Minn.
Rules parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established
by permit.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works of the city.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Public Works of the city, or his
or her designee.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that poses a danger to life, health, or of a
significant loss of property; or requires immediate repair or replacement of
facilities in order to restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
facilities in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in the
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a registrant to cover the
costs as provided in §
151.12.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide a service.
   FIVE-YEAR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for
construction within the next five years.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of the person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including the costs as those associated with registering registrants;
issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way or small wireless facility
permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
maintaining, supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-
way work; determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way or small wireless facility permits.
MANAGEMENT COSTS do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
user for the use of the right-of-way, unreasonable fees of a third-party
contractor used by the city including fees tied to or based on customer counts,
access lines, or revenues generated by the right-of-way for the city, the fees
and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of the Act; or any
ordinance enacted under those sections, or the city fees and costs related to
appeals taken pursuant to §
151.30.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is no longer than 24
inches long, 15 inches wide, and 12 inches high, and whose exterior antenna, if
any, is no longer than 11 inches.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
151.12.
   PATCH or PATCHING. A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A PATCH consists of the compaction of the subbase and aggregate base,
and the replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum of two
feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions. A PATCH is
considered full restoration only when the pavement is included in the city’s
capital improvement plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning given “right-of-way permit” in § 237.162, subd. 7 of
the Act.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of the state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
   PROBATION. The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions
of this chapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a person has been notified
in writing that they have been put on probation.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities
located in any right- of-way regulated by this chapter, or in any way occupies
or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-of-way or place its facilities or
equipment in the right-of-way.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to Commission rules.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public
roadway, highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk in which
the city has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel
purposes and utility easements of the city. A RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include the
airwaves above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other non-wire
telecommunications or broadcast service.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit, obstruction permit, or
small wireless facilities permit, or any combination thereof, depending on the
context, required by this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. Include:
      (1)   A “telecommunications right-of-way user”, as defined in § 237.162,
subd. 4 of the Act; or
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing a service, and who has a right
under law, franchise, contract, license, or ordinance to use the public right-
of-way.
   SERVICE. Includes:
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility, as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, subds. 4 and 6, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Services of a cable communications system, as defined in M.S. Ch.
238, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
      (5)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A, as it may be amended from time to time; and
      (6)   Water and sewer services, including service laterals, steam,
cooling, or heating services.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute, or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A SERVICE LATERAL is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer’s premises.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets all of the following
qualifications:
      (1)   The antenna facility is:
         (a)   Mounted on a structure 50 feet or less in height;
         (b)   Mounted on a structure no more than 10% taller than other
adjacent structures; or
         (c)   Mounted on an existing structure without extending the height of
the existing structure, including the antenna facility, to a height that is in
excess of 50 feet or more than 10% taller than other adjacent structures,
whichever is greater;
      (2)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than three
cubic feet in volume or could fit within such an enclosure;
      (3)   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility, provided the equipment is, in aggregate, no more than 28 cubic feet
in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services, and any equipment
concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment;
      (4)   The facility does not require registration under 47 C.F.R. Part 17
(concerning possible menaces to air navigation); and
      (5)   The facility does not result in human exposure to radio frequency
radiation in excess of applicable, specified safety standards.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter,
must be obtained before a person may install, place, maintain, or operate a
small wireless facility in a public right-of-way to provide wireless service. A
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT allows the holder to conduct the activities in
that part of the right-of-way described in the permit. A SMALL WIRELESS
FACILITY PERMIT does not authorize providing any service other than a wireless
service, or installation, placement, maintenance, or operation of a wireline
backhaul facility in the right-of-way.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to
cover the costs as provided in §
151.12.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to the city to excavate or
obstruct more of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend or supply
additional information to, a permit that has already been submitted or issued.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way that is used or is intended to be used for providing wireless
service, or transporting telecommunication or other voice or data information.
For purposes of this chapter, a cable communication system defined and
regulated under M.S. Ch. 238, as it may be amended from time to time, and
telecommunication activities related to providing natural gas or electric
energy services, a public utility as defined in M.S. § 216B.02, as it may be
amended from time to time, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency
organized under M.S. Ch. 453 and 453A, as they may be amended from time to
time, or a cooperative electric association organized under M.S. Ch. 308A, as
it may be amended from time to time, are not TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY
USERS for purposes of this chapter except to the extent the entity is offering
wireless service.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision
of wireless services between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including equipment associated with wireless service, a radio transceiver,
antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and a
small wireless facility, but not including wireless support structures,
wireline backhaul facilities, or cables between utility poles or wireless
support structures, that are not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly
associated with a specific antenna.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a mobile device, that is provided using wireless facilities. WIRELESS
SERVICE does not include services regulated under Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et. seq., as amended,
including cable service.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure in a right-of-way
designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities, as
reasonably determined by the city.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. A facility used to transport communications data
by wire from a wireless facility to a communications network.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Administrator is the principal city official responsible for the
administration of the public right-of-way, its permits, and the ordinances
related thereto. The City Administrator may delegate any or all of the duties
hereunder.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.05 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the city.
   (B)   General prohibitions. It shall be unlawful to install any tree,
shrubbery, landscape feature, irrigation facility, fence, electronic pet
containment system (also known as an invisible fence), or any similar feature
in the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.06 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the city at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant’s name, gopher one-call registration certificate
number, address and email address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
      (2)   The name, address, and email address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration; and
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the city;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees, and placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees, and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities, and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers’ compensation, and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter. The amounts shall be no less
than the current maximum tort liability amounts applicable to municipalities in
M.S. § 466.04, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (f)   The city requires a copy of the actual insurance policies.
         (g)   If the registrant is a corporation, a copy of the corporate
certificate that has been recorded and certified to by the state’s Secretary of
State.
         (h)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the Commission or other authorization or approval from the applicable
state or federal agency to lawfully operate, where the person is lawfully
required to have such authorization or approval from the Commission or other
state or federal agency.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the city information as to
changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has knowledge
of any change.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.07 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by December
1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for all
facilities with the city. The plan shall be submitted using a format designated
by the city and shall contain the information determined by the city to be
necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the frequency of
excavations and obstructions of rights-of- way.
      (2)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
“next-year project”); and
         (b)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this section, a “five-year project”).
      (3)   The term “project” in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
      (4)   By January 1 of each year, the city will have available for
inspection a composite list of all projects of which the city has been informed
of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for keeping themselves
informed of the current status of this list.
      (5)   Thereafter, by February 1 of each year, each registrant may change
any project in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the city and all
other registrants of all changes in the list.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.08 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
person may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way, or install or place
facilities in the right-of-way, without first having obtained the appropriate
right-of-way permit from the city to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in the permit and to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
      (3)   Small wireless facility permit. A small wireless facility permit is
required by a registrant to erect or install a wireless support structure, to
collocate a small wireless facility, or to otherwise install a small wireless
facility in the specified portion or the right-of-way, to the extent specified
therein, provided that the permit shall remain in effect for the length of time
the facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked. No small wireless facility
permit is required to solely conduct routine maintenance of a small wireless
facility, replacement of a small wireless facility with a new facility that is
substantially similar or smaller in size, weight, height, and wind or
structural loading than the small wireless facility being replaced, or
installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement of micro
wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung between existing
utility poles in compliance with national safety codes, however, a service
provider is required to make written notice of the activities to the city if
the micro wireless facility work will obstruct a public right-of-way. A small
wireless facility permit is required for the work specified in this division
(A)(3), in addition to the requirement that the registrant also possess an
excavation permit or an obstruction permit.
      (4)   Conditional use permit. A conditional use permit is required to
install a new wireless support structure for the siting of a small wireless
facility in a right-of-way in a district that is zoned for single-family
residential use or agricultural use (i.e., as of the effective date of this
chapter, AP, AG-C, GR, VN) or within a historic district established by federal
or state law or by this chapter as of the date of application for a small
wireless facility permit.
      (5)   Driveway permits. Access drives or the alteration to access drives
onto city streets shall require an administrative permit under the Development
Code or a permit under this chapter. This permit shall be issued prior to or
concurrent with the issuance of any building permits. The Public Works Director
shall determine the appropriate location, size and design of such access drives
and may limit the number of access drives in the interest of public safety and
efficient traffic flow. An escrow deposit may be required to ensure
construction of the driveway to city standards, including installation of any
required culvert. Said escrow deposit shall be refunded upon completion of the
driveway and restoration of the street and surrounding vegetation. (Formerly
Development Code Ord. 900 Ch. 2. Section 3.1 (7).)
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the applicable permit unless the person
makes a supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the
expiration of the initial permit, and a new permit or permit extension is
granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.1000, subpart
3 and notwithstanding division (B) above, the city shall establish and impose a
delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction,
patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established from time to
time by City Council resolution. A delay penalty will not be imposed if the
delay in completion is due to circumstances beyond the control of the
registrant, including, without limitation, inclement weather, acts of God, or
civil strife.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2020-05, passed 12-15-2020)
§ 151.09 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Application for all permits described in this chapter must be made to
the city.
   (B)   Right-of-way permit applications shall contain, and will be considered
complete only upon compliance with the requirements of the following
provisions:
      (1)   Registration with the city pursuant to this chapter;
      (2)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed work underlying the permit and the location of all known existing and
proposed facilities;
      (3)   Payment of money due to the city for:
         (a)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs, and other management
costs;
         (b)   Prior obstructions or excavations, before issuance of the
permit;
         (c)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of the registrant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-
way or any emergency actions taken by the city; and
         (d)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
      (4)   Payment of disputed amounts due to the city by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing, which shall be determined by the city; and
      (5)   Posting an additional or larger construction security for
additional facilities when registrant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the city deems the existing construction security
inadequate under applicable standards.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.10 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the registrant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the city shall issue:
      (1)   A small wireless facility permit within 90 days if the facility
would be attached to a new structure;
      (2)   A small wireless facility permit within 60 days if the if the
facility would be collocated on an existing structure; or
      (3)   All other right-of-way permits within ten business days.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the registrant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state, and federal laws, including, but not limited to,
M.S. §§ 216D.01-.09 (Excavation Notice System), as it may be amended from time
to time, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560, each as amended.
   (C)   Small wifeless facility conditions. In addition to division (B) above,
the erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the collocation
of a small wireless facility, or other installation of a small wireless
facility in the right-of-way, shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the
particular wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable permit application submitted by
the registrant.
      (2)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-way
shall exceed 50 feet in height without the city’s written authorization,
provided that the city may impose a lower height limit in the applicable permit
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare or to protect the right-of-
way and its current use, and further provided that a registrant may replace an
existing wireless support structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a
structure of the same height subject to the conditions or requirements as may
be imposed in the applicable permit.
      (3)   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet above its
wireless support structure.
      (4)   Where a registrant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the city may impose reasonable separation
requirements between the structure and any existing wireless support structure
or other facilities in and around the right-of-way.
      (5)   Where a registrant proposes collocation on a decorative wireless
support structure, sign, or other structure not intended to support small
wireless facilities, the city may impose reasonable requirements to accommodate
the particular design, appearance, or intended purpose of the structure.
      (6)   Where a registrant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the city may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of the structure.
      (7)   Where a registrant proposes to install a small wireless facility in
a single-family residential (i.e., as of the effective date of this chapter,
AP, AG-C, GR, VN) or historic zoned district (as may later be established by
this chapter or by applicable state or federal law or regulation), the city
will require a conditional use permit.
   (D)   Small wireless facility agreement.
      (1)   A small wireless facility permit shall only be issued after the
registrant has executed a collocation agreement with the city. The collocation
agreement may require payment of the following:
         (a)   Up to $150 per year for rent to collocate on a wireless support
structure owned by the city;
         (b)   Twenty-five dollars per year for maintenance associated with the
collocation; and
         (c)   If the registrant/permittee obtains electrical service through
the city, a monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
            1.   Seventy three dollars per radio node less than or equal to 100
maximum watts;
            2.   One hundred eighty two dollars per radio node over 100 maximum
watts; or
            3.   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual costs exceed
the foregoing.
      (2)   The collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not in lieu
of, the required small wireless facility permit; provided, however, that the
registrant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or franchise
in order to collocate. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit does not
supersede, alter, or affect any existing agreement between the city and the
registrant established by the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.11 ACTION ON SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Deadline for action. The city shall approve or deny a small wireless
facility permit application within 90 days after filing of the application.
Further, if a small wireless facility permit application involves only a
proposal to collocate on an existing structure, the city shall approve or deny
the application within 60 days after filing of the application. The small
wireless facility permit shall be deemed approved if the city fails to approve
or deny the application within the applicable review period.
   (B)   Consolidated applications.
      (1)   A registrant may file a consolidated small wireless facility permit
application addressing the proposed collocation of up to 15 small wireless
facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by the city, provided that all
small wireless facilities in the application:
         (a)   Are located within a two-mile radius;
         (b)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         (c)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support
structures.
      (2)   In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the
city may approve some small wireless facilities and deny others, but may not
use denial of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless
facility in the application.
   (C)   Tolling of deadline. The deadline for action on a small wireless
facility permit application may be tolled if:
      (1)   The city receives applications from one or more registrants seeking
approval of permits for more than 30 small wireless facilities within a seven-
day period. In such case, the city may extend the deadline for all applications
by 30 days by informing the affected registrants in writing of the extension;
      (2)   The registrant fails to submit all required documents or
information and the city provides written notice of incompleteness, with
specificity as to the missing information, to the registrant within ten days of
receipt of the application; or
      (3)   The city and a small wireless facility registrant agree in writing
to toll the review period.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.12 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall impose an excavation permit fee,
as may be set forth in the city’s annual fee schedule, in an amount sufficient
to recover the following costs:
      (1)   City management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall impose an obstruction permit
fee, as may be set forth in the city’s annual fee schedule, in an amount
sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (C)   Small wireless facility permittee. The city shall impose a small
wireless facility permit fee, as may be set forth in the city’s annual fee
schedule, in an amount sufficient to recover:
      (1)   City management costs; and
      (2)   City engineering and construction costs (if any) associated with
collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (D)   Conditional use permit fee. The city shall impose a conditional use
permit fee, as may be set forth in the city’s annual fee schedule, in an amount
sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (E)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit, obstruction permit, or
small wireless facility permit shall be issued without payment of the
corresponding permit fees.
   (F)   Non refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
151.22 are not refundable.
   (G)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise
agreement, management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to
the franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.13 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under an excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonable or unreasonable under §
151.16.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. A permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself after the work is completed.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, the
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following
the restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee’s improper backfilling,
the permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with correcting the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way,
it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post construction
security in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching, and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the city and shall comply with Minn. Rules part 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by the permittee or its agents. The
permittee, upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work
to the extent necessary, using the method required by the city. The work shall
be completed within five days of the receipt of the notice from the city, not
including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
151.16.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do the work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the actual cost of restoring the right-of-
way. If the permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its
rights under the construction security.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.14 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   No joint application. Registrants may not jointly apply for any kind
of right-of-way permits.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the city does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint
permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With city projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the city, whether or not it is a joint application by
two or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the
excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit is still required to provide the city with details regarding the
project.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.15 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area
must apply for a supplementary application and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new or amended permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new or
amended permit or an extension of the old permit before working after the end
date of the previous permit.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.16 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve a permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits,
licenses, and authority and to pay all fees required by the city pursuant to
its current fee schedule, or other applicable rule, law, or regulation. A
permittee shall comply with all requirements of local, state, and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, M.S. §§ 216D.01-.09 (Excavation Notice System),
as it may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560. A permittee
shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable ordinances, codes,
and established rules and regulations, and is responsible for all work done in
the right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for the work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters, ditches, or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles
of those doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to an
area covered by a permit, unless parked in conformance with city parking
regulations. The loading or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the
defined permit area unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   (D)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including, but not limited
to, horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Ch. 216D, as it may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560
and shall require potholing or open cutting over existing underground utilities
before excavating, as determined by the Director.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.17 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Reasons for denial. The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the
requirements and conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the
denial is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use.
   (B)   Procedural requirements. The denial of a permit must be made in
writing and must document the basis for the denial. The city must notify the
registrant in writing within ten business days of the decision to deny a
permit. If an application is denied, the registrant may cure the deficiencies
identified by the city and resubmit its application. If the application is
resubmitted within 30 days of receipt of the notice of denial, no additional
application fee shall be imposed. The city must approve or deny the resubmitted
application within 30 days after submission.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.18 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching, and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of- way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
parts 7819.1100 and 7819.5000 (for telecommunications) and other applicable
local requirements, in so far as they are not inconsistent with §§ 237.162 and
237.163 of the Act. Installation of service laterals shall be performed in
accordance with Minn. Rules Ch. 7560 and this chapter. Service lateral
installation is further subject to those requirements and conditions set forth
by the city in the applicable permits and agreements referenced in §
151.23(B).
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.19 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
with Minn. Rules part 7819.1300. “As built” drawings are required to be
completed by the permittee and distributed to the city within six months of
completion of the work.
   (B)   Site inspection. The permittee shall make the work site available to
the city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the construction of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Department Inspector.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Department Inspector may order the
immediate cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life,
health, safety, or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Department Inspector may issue an order to the permittee for
any work that does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable
standards, conditions, ordinances, or codes. The order shall state that failure
to correct the violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten
days after issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the
Director or the City Engineer, as the case may be, that the violation has been
corrected. If such proof has not been presented within the required time, the
Director or the City Engineer, as the case may be, may revoke the permit
pursuant to §
151.22.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.20 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. Each registrant shall immediately notify the
Director of any event regarding its facilities that it considers to be an
emergency. The registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to
respond to the emergency. Excavators’ notification to gopher state one call
regarding an emergency situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two
business days after the occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply
for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the
rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this
chapter for the actions it took in response to the emergency. If the city
becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant’s facilities, the city
will attempt to contact the local representative of each registrant affected,
or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may take
whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost of
which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities occasioned the
emergency. The city shall not be liable for any action or inaction taken under
this division (A).
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by this
chapter, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the
right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.21 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the city
of the most accurate and up-to-date information as soon as this information is
known.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.22 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule,
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit or relevant agreement. A
substantial breach by a permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to,
the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee’s control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
151.19.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that a permittee has
committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the permit, the city shall
follow the procedural requirements of §
151.17(B). In addition, the demand shall state that continued violations may be
cause for revocation of the permit. A substantial breach, as stated above, will
allow the city, at its discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on
the permit to mitigate and remedy the breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within two days of receiving
notification of the breach, the permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. The permittee’s failure to
so contact the city, or the permittee’s failure to timely submit an acceptable
plan, or the permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan,
shall be cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.23 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules parts
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within 90 days following completion of any work
pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the Director accurate maps
and drawings certifying the “as-built” location of all equipment installed,
owned, and maintained by the permittee. The maps and drawings shall include the
horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and shall be
provided consistent with the city’s electronic mapping system, when practical
or as a condition imposed by the Director. Failure to provide maps and drawings
pursuant to this division (A) shall be grounds for revoking the permit.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than “minor repairs” as defined in Minn. Rules part
7560.0150, subpart 2, shall require the permittee’s use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the Director reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the Director
evidence satisfactory of the installed service lateral locations. Compliance
with this division (B) and with applicable gopher state one call law and
Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after December 31, 2005,
shall be a condition of any city approval necessary for:
      (1)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project,
including those under M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time; and
      (2)   City approval under development agreements or other subdivision or
site plan approvals under M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be amended from time to time.
The Director shall reasonably determine the appropriate method of providing the
information to the city. Failure to provide prompt and accurate information on
the service laterals installed may result in the revocation of the permit
issued for the work or future permits to the offending permittee or its
subcontractors.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.24 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Location. Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must
comply with the Act, with other applicable law, and with Minn. Rules parts
7819.3100, 7819.5000, and 7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit
authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Undergrounding. As required by the city’s Development Code, Ch. 3, §
13.14 (Utilities), all facilities in the right-of-way must be located or
relocated and maintained underground. This regulation does not apply to small
wireless facilities or micro wireless facilities.
   (C)   Limitation of space. To protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
public, or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the
city shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or
additional facilities within the right-of-way. In making the decisions, the
city shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and
potential users of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by
considerations of the public interest, the public’s needs for the particular
utility service, the condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with
respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the
right-of-way, and future city plans for public improvements and development
projects which have been determined to be in the public interest. The city
shall provide written findings to a registrant in connection with the
prohibition of new or additional facilities within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.25 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. §§ 216D.01-.09
(Excavation Notice System), as they may be amended from time to time, before
the start date of any right-of-way excavation, each registrant who has
facilities or equipment in the area to be excavated shall mark the horizontal
and vertical placement of all the facilities. Any registrant whose facilities
are less than 20 inches below a concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and
work closely with the excavation contractor to establish the exact location of
its facilities and the best procedure for excavation.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.26 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move a registrant’s facilities to protect it, the city
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its
facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the
city’s response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant’s facilities.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.27 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules part 7819.3200.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.28 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the city, or by accepting a permit under this chapter, a
registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance
with the provisions of Minn. Rules part 7819.1250.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.29 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the city that the registrant’s obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by
another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way, and must remove the facilities
immediately if required in conjunction with other right-of-way repair,
excavation, or construction, unless this requirement is waived by the city.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.30 APPEAL.
   (A)   A registrant or a right-of-way user, as the case may be, that:
      (1)   Has been denied a permit;
      (2)   Has had a permit revoked;
      (3)   Believes that the fees imposed by the city are not in conformity
with § 237.163, subd. 6 of the Act; or
      (4)   Disputes a determination of the Director regarding §
151.23(B) may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or decision
reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall act on a timely written request at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, provided the registrant or right-of-way user, as
the case may be, has submitted its appeal with sufficient time to include the
appeal as a regular agenda item. A decision by the City Council affirming the
denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in writing and supported by
written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.31 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee’s rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
city to adopt and enforce general ordinances as necessary to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
MATERIALS ON STREET, SIDEWALK, OR RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 151.45 OBSTRUCTING STREETS, SIDEWALKS, OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Encumbrances. No person shall encumber any street, sidewalk, or right-
of-way within the city. No owner, occupant, or person having the care of any
building or lot of land, bordering on any street, sidewalk, or right-of-way
shall permit it to be encumbered with any object, including, but not limited
to, barrels, boxes, cans, articles, or substances of any kind, so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
   (B)   Prohibited actions. Except for the actions of city employees and
contractors carrying out their normal duties, no person shall:
      (1)   Remove from private property any deposit of snow or ice and place
the same upon the improved portion of any right-of-way;
      (2)   Dig any holes in any street, sidewalk, or right-of-way without a
valid permit required by this chapter;
      (3)   Remove any earth, gravel, or rock from any street, sidewalk, or
right-of-way without a valid permit required by this chapter;
      (4)   Obstruct any ditch draining any street or drain any noisome
materials into any ditch;
      (5)   Deface, mar, damage, or tamper with any structure, work, material,
equipment, tools, signs, markers, signals, paving, guardrails, drains, or any
other highway appurtenance on or along any street, sidewalk, or right-of-way;
      (6)   Remove, injure, displace, or destroy right-of-way markers, or
reference or witness monuments, or markers placed to preserve section or
quarter-section corners; or
      (7)   Drive over, through, or around any barricade, fence, or obstruction
erected for the purpose of preventing traffic from passing over a portion of a
street or sidewalk that is closed to the public.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.46 UNOPENED STREETS.
   (A)   The city holds easements or similar rights in trust for the public to
protect platted rights-of-way that have not been formally opened as streets.
The city has not accepted maintenance responsibility for unopened streets; as
far as the city is concerned, they are unimproved property within the
contemplation of M.S. § 466.03, subd. 6b, as it may be amended from time to
time. The city disclaims any responsibility for or liability arising from any
condition or use of any unopened street.
   (B)   The owner of the servient estate (i.e., the land burdened by the
easement), if any, may maintain the property considered an unopened street. If
there is no servient estate, the owner of the adjacent property may maintain
the property on the near side of the centerline of an unopened street. The
owners may conduct basic maintenance without permits but must obtain permits
for more extensive projects. In no case is a property owner entitled to
reimbursement from the city for any costs incurred in maintaining any unopened
street.
   (C)   No obstructions shall be placed in any unopened street except with an
obstruction permit issued pursuant to the city’s right-of-way management
ordinance. No excavation shall occur in any unopened street except with an
excavation permit issued pursuant to the city’s right-of-way management
ordinance. The city may direct that any unpermitted obstructions in any
unopened street be removed at any time.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 151.47 ADDITIONAL POLICIES AND STANDARDS INCORPORATED.
   The following policies and standards are incorporated into this chapter as
if fully set forth herein:
   (A)   Engineering Standards and Detail Specifications, adopted April 16,
2019 and subsequent revisions;
   (B)   Snow Plowing and Ice Control Policy, adopted February 15, 2011, and
amended April 15, 2014 and February 21, 2017; and
   (C)   Road Right-of-Way Maintenance Policy, adopted November 15, 2016.
(Ord. 204, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 211, passed 5-21-2019)
CHAPTER 152: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
152.01   Codes adopted by reference
   
152.02   Application, administration, and enforcement
   
152.03   Permits required
   
152.04   Permit fees
   
152.05   Building Code optional chapters
Street Numbering
   
152.20   Properties to be identified; specifications of identification
   
152.21   Time allowed for compliance
   
152.22   Notification of non-compliance
   
152.23   Uniform naming and numbering system
   
152.24   Assignment of names and numbers
   
152.25   Administration
 
   
152.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 152.01 CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The state’s Building Code, as adopted by the Commissioner of Administration
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 326B.101 to 326B.194, as it may be amended from time to
time, including all of the amendments, rules, and regulations established,
adopted, and published from time to time by the state’s Commissioner of
Administration, through the Building Codes and Standards Division is hereby
adopted by reference with the exception of the optional chapters, unless
specifically adopted in this subchapter. The state’s Building Code is hereby
incorporated in this subchapter as if fully set out herein. This subchapter
shall perpetually include the most current edition of the state’s Building
Code, with the exception of the optional appendix chapters, which shall not
apply unless specifically adopted.
(Ord. 105, passed 10-16-2007)
§ 152.02 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION, AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The application, administration, and enforcement of the Code shall be
in accordance with the state’s Building Code. The code enforcement agency of
this municipality is called the city’s Building Inspections Department.
   (B)   This Code shall be enforced by the state’s certified building official
designated by the city to administer the Code (M.S. § 326.133, subd. 1, as it
may be amended from time to time).
(Ord. 105, passed 10-16-2007)
§ 152.03 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to conduct any activity in the city for which a permit
is required by any provision of the Building Code without first obtaining a
permit from the city in the manner provided by this section.
   (B)   Application for a permit shall be made to the building official on
forms furnished by the city. The application shall contain information as to
location, nature, extent, and costs of the proposed structure, work,
installation, activity, or other purpose, and other information which the
building official may require under the Code.
   (C)   Upon determination that the permit application meets the requirements
of the Code and all other codes and ordinances of the city, the permit shall be
issued.
(Ord. 105, passed 10-16-2007) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees and plan review fees shall be assessed for work governed by the
Code in accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the city by ordinance. All
fees shall be collected by the city before the issuance of any permit.
(Ord. 105, passed 10-16-2007)
§ 152.05 BUILDING CODE OPTIONAL CHAPTERS.
   The state’s Building Code, established pursuant to M.S. Ch. 326B.101 to
326B.194, as it may be amended from time to time, allows the municipality to
adopt by reference and enforce certain optional chapters of the most current
edition of the state’s Building Code. The following optional provisions
identified in the most current edition of the state’s Building Code are hereby
adopted and incorporated as part of the building code for the city:
International Building Code Appendix J (Grading).
(Ord. 105, passed 10-16-2007)
STREET NUMBERING
§ 152.20 PROPERTIES TO BE IDENTIFIED; SPECIFICATIONS OF IDENTIFICATION.
   The owners of all residential, commercial, and industrial building sites in
the city shall display assigned street address numbers in one of the following
two manners:
   (A)   By displaying the street address numbers on the principal building, or
in the yard or driveway serving or leading to the building site in a manner as
to positively identify the building site with the street address. The numbers
shall be not less than four inches in height and shall be easily visible from
the street or road traveling in either direction; or
   (B)   By displaying the street address numbers on both sides of the mailbox
if the mailbox is located in a manner to absolutely identify the building site
and/or driveway leading to the building site. The street address number shall
be not less than two inches in height.
(Ord. 46, passed 5-17-1994)
§ 152.21 TIME ALLOWED FOR COMPLIANCE.
   The owner of newly constructed buildings shall display street address
numbers in the manner herein provided within 30 days after receiving the
numbers. Owners of buildings existing on the effective date of §§
152.20 to 152.22 shall display assigned street address numbers within six
months of the effective date of §§
152.20 to 152.22.
(Ord. 46, passed 5-17-1994)
§ 152.22 NOTIFICATION OF NON-COMPLIANCE.
   In the event the City Board determines through its members or agents that a
property owner is not in compliance with §§
152.20 to
152.22, the City Clerk shall give written notification to the property owner
requiring compliance with the terms of §§
152.20 to
152.22 within 30 days of the date of the letter. Notice shall be mailed to the
owner at the address appearing in the city records.
(Ord. 46, passed 5-17-1994)
§ 152.23 UNIFORM NAMING AND NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   A uniform system of naming streets and numbering properties and principal
buildings, as shown in the manual of procedures identified by the title uniform
street naming and property numbering system, which is filed in the county
courthouse is hereby adopted for use in the city. This map and all explanatory
matter thereon is hereby adopted and made a part of §§
152.23 to
152.25.
(Ord. 9, passed 12-15-1970)
§ 152.24 ASSIGNMENT OF NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   (A)   All properties or parcels of land within the city shall hereafter be
identified by reference to the uniform numbering system adopted herein,
provided, all existing numbers of property and buildings not now in conformity
with provisions of §§
152.23 to
152.25 shall be changed to conform to the system herein adopted within six
months from the date of passage of §§
152.23 to
152.25. The names of all streets in the city shall be designated by the uniform
street naming system.
   (B)   Each principal building shall bear the number assigned to the frontage
on which the front entrance is located. In case a principal building is
occupied by more than one business or family dwelling unit, each separate front
entrance of the principal building shall bear a separate number.
   (C)   Numerals indicating the official numbers for each principal building
or each front entrance to the building shall be posted in a manner as to be
visible from the street on which the property is located.
(Ord. 9, passed 12-15-1970)
§ 152.25 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall be responsible for maintaining the
numbering system. In the performance of this responsibility, he or she shall be
guided by the provisions of §
152.24.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall keep a record of all numbers assigned
under §§
152.23 to
152.25.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall assign to any property owner in the city
upon request a number for each principal building or separate front entrance to
the building. In doing so, he or she shall assign only the numbers assigned to
the building under the provisions of §§
152.23 to
152.25; provided, however, that the recorder may assign additional numerals in
accord with the official numbering system whenever a property has been
subdivided, a new front entrance opened, or undue hardship has been worked on
any property owner.
   (D)   Street names in existence prior to the passage of §§
152.23 to
152.25 may be retained subject to approval by the City Board.
(Ord. 9, passed 12-15-1970)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §§
152.01 to
152.05 is a misdemeanor. The city may also institute appropriate actions or
proceedings to prevent, retrain, correct, or abate violations or threatened
violations of §§
152.01 to
152.05.
   (C)   Any owner violating the provisions of §§
152.20 to
152.22 shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and
shall pay a fine of not more than $100. Each day that a violation is permitted
to exist shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to other remedies,
the City Board may institute appropriate action to require an owner to comply
with the provisions of §§
152.20 to
152.22.
   (D)   Violation of §§
152.23 to
152.25 shall be a misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine not to exceed $300.
Each separate day the violation is continued shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 9, passed 12-15-1970; Ord. 46, passed 5-17-1994; Ord. 105, passed 10-16-
2007)
CHAPTER 153: LAND DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
153.01   Adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s land development ordinance, as amended, copies of which are on
file in the office of the City Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
60       12-2-1997   Granting a cable television franchise to Citation Cable
                     Systems, Ltd.
147      11-19-2013  Granting a cable television franchise to Midcontinent
                     Communications
183      1-17-2017   Granting a cable television franchise to Citizens
                     Telecommunications Company of Minnesota, LLC
                    
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
19       9-3-1985    Rezoning property from Class C Conservancy to Class A-
                     2 Agricultural
70       4-17-2001   Rezoning property from General Business District to
                     Single-Family Estate District
77       2-18-2003   Rezoning property from Agriculture District to Single-
                     Family Estate District
111      5-6-2008    Rezoning property from General Business District to
                     Single-Family Estate District
150      12-17-2013  Rezoning property from Rural Commercial to General Rural
                     District
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites              Code Section
13.01 et. seq.          30.04
13.03, subd. 3          31.04
14.57 to 14.69          110.31,
                        110.99
15.73, subd. 3          151.03
17.710                  94.21
18.75 et. seq.          94.01
Ch. 40                  150.04
Ch. 40A                 150.01
79.01 et. seq.          31.01
84.81 through 84.915    71.20
86B.005, subd. 18       71.01
Ch. 115                 52.21
Ch. 115A                52.01
115A.882                52.12
116.06                  52.02
144.391                 111.01
145A                    52.01
145A.05                 91.02
155A.01 et seq.         52.02
155A.01 through 155A.03 52.02
155A.96, subd. 1(a)     52.02
155A.96, subd. 1(b)     52.02
157.16                  110.03
157.16, subd. 3d        110.03
169.69                  70.01
169.69 and 169.693      70.04
169.87                  70.35
169.693                 70.01
169.999                 10.98
176.182                 114.06
216B.02                 151.03
216B.02, subd. 4        151.03
216B.02, subd. 6        151.03
Ch. 216D                151.16
                        151.10,
216D.01-.09             151.16,
                        151.25
237.16                  151.01,
                        151.03
237.79                  151.01,
                        151.03
237.81                  151.01,
                        151.03
237.162                 151.01,
                        151.03
237.163                 151.01,
                        151.03
Ch. 238                 151.03
238.086                 151.01,
                        151.03
270C.72                 114.06
Ch. 308A                151.03
Ch. 326B                53.03
326B.101 to 326B.194    152.01,
                        152.05
326.133, subd. 1        152.02
326B.31 to 326B.399     53.03
326B.36, subd. 6        53.01,
                        53.02
326B.37                 53.05
                        31.04,
                        110.01,
                        110.02,
Ch. 340A                110.15,
                        110.18,
                        110.31,
                        110.99
340A.101                110.03,
                        110.17
340A.404, subd. 4a      110.17
340A.404, subd. 4b      110.17
340A.404, subd. 5       110.17
340A.408, subd. 2b      110.17
340A.408, subd. 3       110.17
340A.408, subd. 5       110.18
340A.409                110.20
340A.414                110.30
340A.503, subd. 1(a)(1) 93.05
340A.504                110.28
340A.504, subd. 3c      110.17
340A.509                110.02
340A.801                110.20
Ch. 342                 115.01
342.13                  115.02
342.13(c)               115.01
342.22                  115.01,
                        115.02
342.22, subd. 4(b)      115.02
342.22, subd. 5(e)      115.02
342.24                  115.02
342.39, subd. 2         115.04
342.101                 131.02
347.14, subd. 2         90.11
347.54, subd. 2         90.15
                        130.02,
                        130.03,
Ch. 349                 130.10,
                        130.15,
                        130.99
349.11 to 349.191       130.99
349.11 to 349.23        130.06
349.12                  130.04
349.16, subd. 2         130.07
349.18                  130.09,
                        130.10
349.166                 130.11
349.213                 130.03,
                        130.99
364.06                  114.06
Ch. 375                 52.01
Ch. 400                 52.01
412.221, subd. 22       52.01
Ch. 429                 32.04,
                        151.23
429.061                 91.09
429.101                 91.09
Ch. 453                 151.03
Ch. 453A                151.03
461.12                  111.99
Ch. 462                 151.23
462.351 et. seq.        30.08
462.354                 30.08
462.357                 115.01
462.3593, subd. 9       31.02
466.03, subd. 6b        151.46
466.04                  151.06
Ch. 473                 52.01
473.849                 52.25
500.24                  150.31
609.293 through 609.352 112.07
609.75 to 609.763       130.06,
                        130.99
609.205, clause (4)     90.17
609.226, subd. 1        90.17
609.226, subd. 2        90.17
609.415                 32.05
609.685                 131.02
Ch. 617                 112.06
617.23 through 617.299  112.07
617.241                 112.02
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     90.35 –
6        8-12-1969   90.37,
                     90.99
                     152.23 –
9        12-15-1970  152.25,
                     152.99
11       6-5-1973    91.35 –
                     91.38
12       8-19-1975   70.20,
                     70.99
                     130.30 –
14       9-16-1980   130.32,
                     130.99
19       9-3-1985    TSO Table II
26       1-17-1989   31.01
                     150.01 –
30       1-20-1990   150.17,
                     150.99
                     94.20,
32       2-20-1990   94.21,
                     94.99
33       4-17-1990   93.99,
                     94.22
45       - -1993     150.30 –
                     150.39
                     152.20 –
46       5-17-1994   152.22,
                     152.99
                     94.01 –
52       7-18-1995   94.08,
                     94.99
                     71.35 –
57       7-16-1996   71.39,
                     71.99
59       12-2-1997   113.01 –
                     113.13
60       12-2-1997   TSO Table I
63       7-21-1998   91.50 –
                     91.55
                     71.20 –
68       12-19-2000  71.22,
                     71.99
70       4-17-2001   TSO Table II
77       2-18-2003   TSO Table II
                     70.01 –
85       6-21-2005   70.06,
                     70.99
                     112.01 –
88       7-11-2006   112.14,
                     112.99
91       1-2-2007    30.02 –
                     30.08
                     110.01 –
                     110.04,
93       1-2-2007    110.15-
                     110.31,
                     110.99
                     130.01 –
100      3-6-2007    130.16,
                     130.99
                     152.01 –
105      10-16-2007  152.05,
                     152.99
111      5-6-2008    TSO Table II
117      5-19-2009   30.20 –
                     30.24
                     93.20 –
119      9-1-2009    93.22,
                     93.99
125      1-18-2011   30.01
                     53.01 –
127      7-19-2011   53.05,
                     53.99
                     92.01 –
133      11-20-2012  92.14,
                     92.99
                     50.01 –
134      - -2012     50.03,
                     50.05-
                     50.11
                     93.01 –
144      - -2013     93.05,
                     93.99
145      9-17-2013   30.01
147      11-19-2013  TSO Table I
148      12-17-2013  50.04
150      12-17-2013  TSO Table II
153      6-17-2014   110.15
156      9-16-2014   31.03
                     71.01 –
155      11-18-2014  71.05,
                     71.99
160      3-17-2015   30.08
176      8-16-2016   31.02
183      1-17-2017   TSO Table I
                     90.01 –
185      6-20-2017   90.20,
                     90.99
191      12-19-2017  50.04
                     51.01 –
202      12-18-2018  51.08,
                     51.10 –
                     51.12
203      12-18-2018  10.99
                     70.35 –
                     70.39,
                     71.99,
204      12-18-2018  151.01-
                     151.31,
                     151.45-
                     151.47
205      12-18-2018  32.01 –
                     32.08
206      12-18-2018  31.04
207      1-15-2019   90.99
209      2-19-2019   51.03,
                     51.08
211      5-21-2019   32.08,
                     151.47
                     111.01 -
212      10-15-2019  111.12,
                     111.99
213      12-17-2019  31.04
2020-04  10-20-2020  114.01 -
                     114.11
                     10.20,
2020-05  12-15-2020  10.98,
                     31.04,
                     151.08
-        - -2021     31.04
                     91.01 -
21-03    11-16-2021  91.09,
                     91.99
21-04    11-16-2021  51.01 -
                     51.12
2023-01  1-4-2023    31.04
2023-06  8-2-2023    131.01 -
                     131.03
2023-14  12-19-2023  31.04
2023-15  12-19-2023  52.01 -
                     52.30
2024-01  2-20-2024   32.01 –
                     32.08
2024-07  11-6-2024   115.01 –
                     115.04
2024-08  12-17-2024  31.04
                    
 
