CITY OF SLAYTON, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 343, passed 2-19-2020
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 318
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF SLAYTON, MINNESOTA,
AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes §§ 415.02 and 415.021, as they may be amended from
time to time, authorize the city to cause its ordinances to be codified and
printed in a book,
NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Slayton, Minnesota, ordains:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Slayton.” This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 2.   The Code of Ordinances, as adopted in Section 1 above, shall
consist of the following titles:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
            10. General Code Construction; General Penalty
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
            30. City Council and Employees; Elections
            31. Organizations
            32. Emergency Management
            33. Fee Schedules
            34. Finances
            35. City Policies
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
            50. Solid Waste Management
            51. Water and Sewer Regulations
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
            70. Traffic; Vehicle Operation
            71. Parking Regulations
            72. Municipal Airport; Aerial Application
            73. Snowmobiles
            74. Golf Carts and All Terrain Vehicles
            75. Bicycles, Skateboards and Recreational Vehicles
            76. Traffic Schedules
            77. Parking Schedules
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
            90. Animals
            91. Fire Prevention and Protection
            92. Sidewalks and Public Places
            93. Environment
            94. Fair Housing
            95. Public Nuisances
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
            110. Alcoholic Beverages and Tobacco
            111. Amusement and Entertainment
            112. Sexually Oriented Businesses
            113. Peddlers and Solicitors
            114. General Licensing Provisions
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
            130. Offenses Against Persons and Property
            131. Minors
            132. Explosives
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
            150. Building Regulations
            151. Subdivisions
            152. Zoning
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
            I. Annexations; Real Estate
            II. Franchises
            III. Moratoriums
PARALLEL REFERENCES
            References to Minnesota Statutes
            References to Prior Code
            References to Resolutions
            References to Ordinances
INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of
Ordinances. All fees established in prior ordinances codified in this code
shall remain in effect unless amended in this code or until an ordinance
adopting a fee schedule is adopted or amended.
Section 4.   This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a
sufficient publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously
published in the city’s official newspaper. The Clerk of the City shall cause a
substantial quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general
distribution to the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code
of Ordinances for the County Law Library or its designated depository. The
official copy of this Code of Ordinances shall be marked and kept in the office
of the City Clerk.
Section 5.   The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of
the law of the city and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
Section 6.   This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
city’s official newspaper.
PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SLAYTON, MINNESOTA THIS 7th DAY OF
APRIL, 2008.
                     
                                                                     
                              MAYOR
ATTEST:
                                                       
CITY CLERK/ADMINISTRATOR
ORDINANCE NO. 329
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF SLAYTON, MINNESOTA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2010 S-1 supplement to the Code of ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT SO ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF SLAYTON, MINNESOTA:
Section 1.   That the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and publication as required by law.
Adopted by the City Council of the City of Slayton, Minnesota this 17th day of
February, 2010.
                                          
   Chuck Ludolph
   MAYOR
ATTEST:
                                                       
Cathy Magnus
CITY CLERK/ADMINISTRATOR
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty
   
Appendix I:   Resolution to adopt a schedule of offenses and voluntary
administrative penalties
   
Appendix II:   Notice of code violation
§ 10.01   TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02   RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03   APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04   CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05   DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY.  The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used to refer to
the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This city code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY.  Murray County.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06   SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07   REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08   REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09   ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10   OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11   REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12   ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13   ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14   EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15   REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16   ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17   PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (D)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
right-of-ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18   COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk/Administrator for public inspection. The Clerk/Administrator shall
provide a copy for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19   ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this Minnesota
Basic Code, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.20   ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk/Administrator shall have the authority to administer and
enforce this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain
individuals designated within the code or by the Clerk/Administrator or City
Council shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions
specified. All and any person or persons designated may issue a citation in
lieu of arrest or continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Administrator and any city official or employee
designated by this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this
code may with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any
property or resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises,
inspect or otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk/Administrator, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the
duty of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Clerk/Administrator or any other authorized city
officer or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code
enacted to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being
complied with and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit
the inspection of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination
of any and all permits, licenses or city service to the property.
   (F)   Mailed notice shall be given to the licensee, owner, resident or other
person in control of the property, stating the grounds for the termination, and
the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property shall
be given an opportunity to appear before the City Clerk/Administrator to object
to the termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the Clerk/
Administrator’s decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or
special meeting.
   (G)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.98   SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
The resolution may be in the form established in Appendix I of this chapter.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Clerk/Administrator, or
other person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code,
in a written notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the
person who is alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may
request the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation
directly to the City Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation. A
sample notice is contained in
Appendix II of this chapter. In the sole discretion of the person giving the
notice of the alleged violation, the time for payment may be extended an
additional 14 days, whether or not requested by the person to whom the notice
has been given. In addition to the administrative penalty, the person giving
notice may request in the notice to the alleged violator to adopt a compliance
plan to correct the situation resulting in the alleged violation and may
provide that if the alleged violator corrects the situation resulting in the
alleged violation within the time specified in the notice, that the payment of
the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request a
hearing before a neutral third party appointed by the city to hear and rule on
challenges to the administrative citations. Such request for a hearing must be
made in writing and received at the office of the City Clerk/Administrator
prior to the date that payment of the administrative penalty is due. A deposit
of $50 shall accompany the request for a hearing and shall be applied toward
the cost of scheduling and conducting such hearing. A hearing will then be
scheduled within 30 days of such written request with written notice of the
date and time of the hearing to be mailed to the address provided by the person
requesting a hearing at least five days prior to the hearing date. After such
hearing, the neutral third party may determine that the request for payment be
withdrawn or determine that the request for payment is valid. Because the
payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary and the alleged violator has
the right to request that criminal charges be filed in accordance with state
law, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the neutral third party.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
(Am. Ord. 327, passed 12-21-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Administrative citations for certain traffic offenses, see §
70.99
§ 10.99   GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of
this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
APPENDIX I   RESOLUTION TO ADOPT THE PROVISIONS OF MINNESOTA BASIC CODE § 10.98
AND A SCHEDULE OF OFFENSES AND VOLUNTARY ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES
   WHEREAS, the City Council wishes to adopt the provisions of Minnesota Basic
Code §
10.98, establishing a procedure for requesting the voluntary payment of
administrative penalties for certain  violations of the code; and
   WHEREAS, the provisions of Minnesota Basic Code §
10.98 authorize the City Council, by a resolution adopted by a majority of its
members, to identify administrative offenses and establish penalties for these
offenses;
   NOW THEREFORE, be it resolved by the City Council as follows:
   Except as otherwise provided in this title, the regulatory and procedural
provision of M.S. Chapter 169, commonly referred to as the Highway Traffic
Regulation Act, as amended through Laws of 1975 and as may be amended from time
to time, is hereby incorporated herein and adopted by reference including the
penalty provisions thereof.
   Except as otherwise provided in this title, M.S. §§ 171.01, 171.02, 1171.03,
171.08, 171.22, 171.23 and 171.24, as amended through Laws of 2005 and as may
be amended from time to time, are hereby incorporated herein and adopted by
reference, including the penalty provisions thereof.
   The City Council hereby adopts the provisions of Minnesota Basic Code §
10.98 and adopts the following administrative penalties:
 
Offense                           Code Section Amount of Administrative Penalty
All offenses for which an
administrative penalty may be                  See §
established under this code,                   33.15
other than those specified below:
 
   EFFECTIVE DATE: The effective date of the resolution is the date of its
passage by a majority of the members of the City Council. Passage of this
resolution implements the provisions of City Code §
10.98.
Mayor:                                                        
Attest:                                                            
   City Clerk/Administrator
APPENDIX II    NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To:  (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From:  (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re:  Alleged violation of Section of the City Code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date:  (Date of notice)
   I  hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                
of the City Code relating to                                   .
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $         for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by            
           (establish date), then the payment of the administrative penalty
will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty.
   After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to withdraw
the request for payment or to renew the request for payment.
   Because the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall
be no appeal from the decision of the Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash or money
order to the City Treasurer.
Signed:                                                              
   (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   CITY COUNCIL AND EMPLOYEES; ELECTIONS
   
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
   
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
   
33.   FEE SCHEDULES
   
34.   FINANCES
   
35.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  CITY COUNCIL AND EMPLOYEES; ELECTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Terms of office
   
30.02   Salaries
   
30.03   Council sessions
   
30.04   Special meetings
   
30.05   Public meetings
   
30.06   Officials under Workers’ Compensation Act
City Employees
   
30.20   Employees included
   
30.21   Optional retirement age
City Clerk/Administrator
   
30.35   Establishment of position
   
30.36   Objectives and scope of the position
   
30.37   Relationships of Clerk/Administrator
   
30.38   Major duties and responsibilities
   
30.39   Education and/or requirements
   
30.40   Appointment and removal
Elections
   
30.55   Election date
   
30.56   Law adopted by reference
Cross-reference:
   City Organizations, see
Ch. 31
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01   TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor shall serve a 2-year term. Council members shall serve 4-year
terms.
(Prior Code, § 2.101)
§ 30.02   SALARIES.
   The compensation of the Mayor and the compensation of each Council Member
shall be established from time to time by City Council ordinance pursuant to
M.S. § 415.11, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 30.03   COUNCIL SESSIONS.
   (A)   The City Council of the City of Slayton, Minnesota, shall henceforth
hold 2 regular meetings each month of each year in the City Council rooms of
the City of Slayton, Minnesota.
   (B)   The first regular meeting of each month of the City Council of the
City of Slayton, Minnesota, shall be held on the first Monday of each month
with a starting time of 7:00 p.m. in the City Council rooms of the City of
Slayton, Minnesota.
   (C)   The second regular meeting of each month of the City Council of the
City of Slayton, Minnesota, shall be held on the third Monday of each month
with a starting time of 7:00 p.m. in the City Council rooms of the City of
Slayton, Minnesota.
(Prior Code, § 2.103)
§ 30.04   SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Council may be called as provided by M.S. § 412.191
Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall comply with the Open
Meeting Law (M.S. § 13D.01, as it may be amended from time to time).
(Prior Code, § 2.104)
§ 30.05   PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   All Council meetings, including special and adjourned meetings and meetings
of Council committees, will be open to the public, except as otherwise provided
by law (Open Meeting Law, M.S. § 13D.01, as it may be amended from time to
time).
(Prior Code, § 2.105)
§ 30.06   OFFICIALS UNDER WORKERS’ COMPENSATION ACT.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 176.011, as it may be amended from time to time, the
elected officials of the City of Slayton and those municipal officers of the
City of Slayton appointed for a regular term of office are hereby included in
the coverage of the Minnesota Workers’ Compensation Act.
(Prior Code, § 2.106)
CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 30.20   EMPLOYEES INCLUDED.
   All city employees of the City of Slayton, except for the Mayor and Council,
shall adhere to the retirement regulations instituted by the City of Slayton.
(Prior Code, § 2.201)
§ 30.21   OPTIONAL RETIREMENT AGE.
   All covered employees shall be eligible to retire from employment with the
City of Slayton on their sixty-fifth birthday or thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 2.202)
CITY CLERK/ADMINISTRATOR
§ 30.35   ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION.
   The position of Clerk/Administrator for the City of Slayton is hereby
established.
(Prior Code, § 2.301)
§ 30.36   OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE OF THE POSITION.
   (A)   The Clerk/Administrator shall plan and direct the administration of
city functions as delegated by the City Council and perform the duties of the
City Clerk/Treasurer to ensure efficient municipal services and development in
line with Council objectives.
   (B)   The Clerk/Administrator shall supervise the municipal office and
administer all departments placed within his or her jurisdiction, which shall
include the Police Department, building inspection and zoning administration,
Public Works Department, Fire Department and city library. He or she shall be
responsible for coordinating the city activities with the City Attorney,
engineering consultants and planning consultants. He or she shall work in an
advisory capacity with the city commissions and boards. He or she shall work
with the HRA on community development.
   (C)   He or she shall operate with considerable discretion in normal
administrative functions and in implementing policies of the Council. He or she
shall be responsible for effective recommendation in the areas of policies,
staffing, expenditures and other areas where Council action is required.
(Prior Code, § 2.302)
§ 30.37   RELATIONSHIPS OF CLERK/ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Clerk/Administrator shall:
   (A)   Report to City Council;
   (B)   Supervise:
      (1)   Public Works Director;
      (2)   Zoning Official
      (3)   Chief of Police;
      (4)   Volunteer Fire Chief;
      (5)   Municipal office personnel; and
      (6)   Head Librarian.
   (C)   Coordinate:
      (1)   City Attorney;
      (2)   Engineering consultants;
      (3)   Planning consultants; and
      (4)   Assessor.
   (D)   Through these subordinates, he or she shall be indirectly responsible
for all city employees.
(Prior Code, § 2.303)
§ 30.38   MAJOR DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Clerk/Administrator shall:
   (A)   Perform duties as prescribed under Statutory City Code and resolution
and in addition thereto, shall be the Administrative Officer of the city
responsible for the administration of the affairs of the city assigned to the
Office by the Council;
   (B)   See that all laws, ordinances and resolutions of the city are enforced
through subordinates and makes recommendations for changes or additions to
ordinances when necessary;
   (C)   Supervise the administration of all departments and staff placed
within his or her jurisdiction by resolution adopted by the Council including
those positions listed above and coordinate the work of advisory bodies, the
City Attorney and consultants;
   (D)   Work closely with the Council and set up meeting agendas, attend
meetings to report on city affairs and problems, present recommendations
concerning policies and objectives as well as specific actions participate in
discussions as appropriate, maintain custody of official documents, join with
the Mayor in executing legal documents on behalf of the city, and implement
Council decisions. He or she shall be responsible for keeping the Council fully
advised of all significant matters and effectively presenting all items, which
require Council action or approval;
   (E)   Develop and ensure effective utilization of appropriate budgeting and
administrative planning and control procedures. He or she shall be responsible
for all accounting, budgeting, billing, including monthly billing of all water
and sewer utility customers, ensure that proper control reports are developed
and used and police effective operation of purchasing procedures as outlined by
Council resolution. He or she shall recommend changes in these procedures to
the Council as appropriate;
   (F)   Ensure the development of an effective municipal organization. He or
she shall recommend changes in organization structure as appropriate, work with
department managers to ensure effective job design and utilization of
employees, recommend staffing or additions, and recommend salary treatment and
employee training activities. He or she shall follow up to ensure effective
implementation of approved recommendations;
   (G)   Ensure effective management of financial and physical assets. He or
she shall work with the City Council to ensure proper investment of available
funds and to ensure that effective accounting practices are used to control
financial assets. He or she shall provide proper information for effective
financial planning to the City Council;
   (H)   Keep informed of the provisions of city resolutions, court decisions
affecting local government, departmental and agency operating procedures,
provisions and requirements of county ordinances, state and federal laws and
other administrative rules;
   (I)   Supervise the registration of voters and the conduct of city
elections, including posting of notices. He or she shall prepare and administer
assessment roles, including the collection of initial assessment payments,
certify assessment data to the County Auditor for further collections and
maintain the assessment register;
   (J)   Work with city advisory commissions and boards, coordinating their
activities with elected city officials and present commission recommendations
to the City Council;
   (K)   Ensure proper public relations. He or she shall follow up with all
departments to make sure that public services are efficiently provided and that
all complaints and public contacts are effectively handled. He or she shall
participate in local affairs as appropriate;
   (L)   Stay abreast of developments in the public administration field and
cooperate with other governmental units and municipalities on matters of mutual
interest. He or she shall direct city planning and development actives and
perform other functions as directed by the Council; and
   (M)   Perform other duties as assigned by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.304)
§ 30.39   EDUCATION AND/OR REQUIREMENTS.
   The Clerk/Administrator shall possess a degree in business, economics or
public administration and/or a minimum of 3-years’ experience in municipal
administration with supervising experience and/or equivalent experience,
knowledge and/or abilities which, in the opinion of the City Council, qualify
the person for the position, including but not limited to the following:
   (A)   Strong administrative skills with ability to schedule and plan work
with minimum direction and to maintain confidential information;
   (B)   A good working knowledge of the organizational functions of all city
departments; and
   (C)   Ability to handle contacts diplomatically with the public, outside
agencies and work with the City Council effectively.
(Prior Code, § 2.305)
§ 30.40   APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.
   The Clerk/Administrator shall be appointed by the City Council for an
indefinite term and may be removed only by a majority vote of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.306)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.55   ELECTION DATE.
   The regular city election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday of November in even numbered years.
(Prior Code, § 3.101)
§ 30.56   LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The state registration law, M.S. Chapter 201, as it may be amended from time
to time, is adopted by reference, and the provisions of that law thus
incorporated shall be as much a part of this section as if they had been set
forth in full in this section.
(Prior Code, § 3.102)
CHAPTER 31:  ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
31.01   Establishment of Commission
   
31.02   Composition
   
31.03   Organization, meetings and the like
   
31.04   Powers and duties
   
31.05   Zoning ordinances; public hearings
   
31.06   Plats; approval
City Library Board
   
31.20   Creation and establishment
   
31.21   Terms of office
   
31.22   Compensation
   
31.23   Duties and responsibilities
   
31.24   Operation
Park, Aquatic Center and Recreation Board
   
31.35   Established
   
31.36   Appointment
   
31.37   Duties
   
31.38   Removal of Board members
   
31.39   Vacancies on Board
   
31.40   Compensation of Board members
   
31.41   Board meeting; authority to adopt by-laws
   
31.42   Board to create committees
   
31.43   Board’s expenditure/policy authority restricted
   
31.44   Gifts, donations and grants
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 31.01   ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
   A City Planning Commission for the City of Slayton is adopted by ordinance
and hereby established. The Commission shall be the City Planning and Zoning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.401)
§ 31.02   COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of 7 members, who
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of a majority of the Slayton
City Council; the Zoning Official and City Attorney shall be members ex
officio.
   (B)   They shall be appointed for terms of 4 years. Both original and
successive appointees shall hold their offices until their successors are
appointed and qualified. The terms of ex officio members shall correspond to
their respective official tenures. Vacancies during the term shall be filled by
the Council for the unexpired portion of their term. Every appointed member
shall before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties take an oath that
he or she will faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office. All
members shall serve with compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2.402)
§ 31.03   ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its appointed
members for a term of 1 year; and the Commission may create and fill other
offices as it may determine. The Deputy Clerk shall act as Secretary of the
Planning Commission, but he or she shall not be a member unless he or she is
appointed by the Council as its member representative as provided in §
31.02 above.
   (B)   The Commission shall hold at least 1 regular meeting each quarter. It
shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of
its resolutions, transactions and findings, which record shall be a public
record. On or before January 1 of each year, the Commission shall submit to the
City Council a report of its work during the preceding year. Expenditures of
the Commission shall be within amounts appropriated for the purpose by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.403)
§ 31.04   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall be the Planning and Zoning Commission and
shall have the powers and duties given agencies generally by M.S. §§ 462.351
through 462.364 (as they may be amended from time to time). It shall also
exercise the duties conferred upon it by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.404)
§ 31.05   ZONING ORDINANCES; PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   No zoning ordinances or amendment thereto shall be adopted by the Council
until a public hearing has been held thereon by the Planning and Zoning
Commission (the Council) upon notice as provided in M.S. § 462.357 Subdivision
3 (as it may be amended from time to time).
(Prior Code, § 2.405)
§ 31.06   PLATS; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any plat of land submitted to the Council for approval shall, prior to
final approval, be referred to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review
and recommendation.
   (B)   Any plat so referred shall be returned to the Council by the
Commission within 30 days, and failure of the Commission to report within that
period is deemed to have satisfied the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The governing body may, by resolution adopted by 2/3 vote, dispense
with the requirements of this section when in its judgment, it finds that the
proposed acquisition or disposal of real property or capital improvement has no
relationship to the comprehensive municipal plan.
(Prior Code, § 2.405)
CITY LIBRARY BOARD
§ 31.20   CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a City Library Board for the City of Slayton,
Minnesota, which shall consist of 7 members who shall be appointed by the Mayor
of the City of Slayton with the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   So long as the city library continues to be a branch or a member of a
regional public library system and the County of Murray continues to
participate in a regional library system 1 of the members appointed to the City
Library Board shall be a resident of the County of Murray residing outside of
the city limits of the City of Slayton and the other 6 members appointed shall
be residents of the City of Slayton.
   (C)   If the City Library ceases to be a branch or a member of a regional
public library system or the County of Murray ceases to participate in a
regional library system, all 7 members appointed to the City Library Board
shall be residents of the City of Slayton, in accordance with the provisions of
M.S. § 134.09, Subdivision l (as it may be amended from time to time).
(Prior Code, § 2.701)
§ 31.21   TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The terms of the 7 members of the City Library Board initially
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council shall be as
follows: three shall hold office for 1 year, two for 2 years, and two for 3
years.
   (B)   All terms shall end with the fiscal year of the City of Slayton.
   (C)   Annually thereafter the Mayor with the approval of the City Council
shall appoint Board members for the term of 3 years to replace Board members
whose terms are expiring.
   (D)   A Library Board member shall not be eligible to serve more than 3
consecutive 3-year terms.
(Prior Code, § 2.702)
§ 31.22   COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2.703)
§ 31.23   DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate,
counsel and develop and/or update annually a written policy statement for
development and maintenance of the City of Slayton Municipal Library.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to assist the Clerk/
Administrator in developing a budget to implement the above-mentioned policy.
   (C)   The policy statement and budget will be presented annually to the City
Council and upon their acceptance and approval shall constitute the official
municipal library policy for the City of Slayton.
   (D)   The Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Prior Code, § 2.704)
§ 31.24   OPERATION.
   (A)   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings.
   (B)   A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Prior Code, § 2.705)
PARK, AQUATIC CENTER AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 31.35  ESTABLISHED.
   A Park, Aquatic Center and Recreation Board (“the Board”) consisting of 7
members shall be established for the city.
(Ord. 324, passed 12-7-2009)
§  31.36  APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   All members shall be city residents and/or taxpayers, appointed to 3
year terms and hold office until their successors are appointed provided, that
the initial appointments shall be for terms as follows:
 
2 members        1 year
2 members        2 years
2 members        3 years
1 Council member Shall serve 1 year terms expiring December 31 of each year
 
   (B)   Each year following the expiration of terms for the initial Board, 2
members of the community shall be appointed to 3 year terms from the general
resident/business population of the city, and 1 City Council representative
shall be appointed each year. Appointments will be made by the Mayor making
recommendation and the City Council approving. The City Council member shall be
a full voting member of the Board.
   (C)   The following ex-officio members: City Clerk/Administrator, Pool
Manager, Park/Rec Director.
(Ord. 324, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 31.37  DUTIES.
   The role of the Board is to:
   (A)   Advise the City Council regarding all aspects of the city parks,
aquatic center and recreation activities, land use and equipment;
   (B)   Promote public interest and understanding of the city parks, aquatic
center and recreation programs, uses and overall development;
   (C)   With the assistance of the city staff, prepare and submit a
recommended annual operating and capital budget to the City Council;
   (D)   Prepare and maintain a park and aquatic center use and 10 year capital
improvement plan;
   (E)   Coordinate and assist the city and in the creation, updating and
enforcement of the city parks, aquatic center and recreation programs rules and
regulations;
   (F)   Oversee compliance with federal and state regulations, if applicable;
   (G)   Review, update and make recommendations to the City Council to assure
that the summer help handbooks are current;
   (H)   Work with the city’s Safety Officer to assure compliance with the city
safety program;
   (I)   Advise and recommend appropriate application for state and federal
programs; and
   (J)   Review and advise the City Council on progress during improvements.
(Ord. 324, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 31.38  REMOVAL OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   An absence from 3 consecutive regular meetings without the formal consent of
the Board shall be deemed to constitute a resignation of a member; and the
vacancy thus created shall be filled thereafter by appointment by the City
Council for the remainder of the term of the member so deemed to have resigned.
(Ord. 324, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 31.39  VACANCIES ON BOARD.
   Vacancies on the Board during a term of office shall be filled by the City
Council for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Ord. 324, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 31.40  COMPENSATION OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   All members of the commission shall serve without compensation unless the
Council authorizes it and is set by ordinance and adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 324, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 31.41  BOARD MEETING; AUTHORITY TO ADOPT BY-LAWS.
   (A)   The Board shall hold regular public meetings set by the membership but
no less than quarterly each year. It shall adopt by-laws for its proceedings
and elect a Chair, Vice Chair and Secretary, annually.
   (B)   It shall adopt by-laws for the transaction of business and shall keep
a record of its transactions and findings, which record shall be a public
record.
(Ord. 324, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 31.42  BOARD TO CREATE COMMITTEES.
   The Board may create special committees as needed to assist with special
projects and programs or to conduct detailed studies.
(Ord. 324, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 31.43  BOARD’S EXPENDITURE/POLICY AUTHORITY RESTRICTED.
   Nothing in this subchapter should be construed to confer and direct policy
or bill-paying authority to the Board. The Board shall be a recommending
advisory body to the City Council.
(Ord. 324, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 31.44  GIFTS, DONATIONS AND GRANTS.
   The Board may, from time to time, be presented with bequests of gifts,
donations of money, grants or such for the use in the parks. The City Council
will accept these bequests on behalf of the Board.
(Ord. 324, passed 12-7-2009)
CHAPTER 32:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Policy and purpose
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
32.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
32.05   Local emergencies
   
32.06   Emergency regulations
   
32.07   Emergency management a government function
   
32.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
§ 32.01   POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in order
to ensure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with those
disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect the
public peace, health and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of the
people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 32.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER.  A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY.  An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.  The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as CIVIL DEFENSE
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES.  The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.  The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 32.03   ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency
management organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the
City Emergency Management Director, called the Director.
   (B)   The Director shall be appointed by the City Council for an indefinite
term and may be removed by the Council at any time.
   (C)   The Director shall serve with a salary as established by the City
Council and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses.
   (D)   The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration and operation of the emergency preparedness organization,
subject to the direction and control of the Council.
§ 32.04   POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to the
maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city departments
and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate with and
extend services and facilities to the city's emergency management organization
and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or agency in
cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning and
programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization of
the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 32.05   LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of 3 days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the Clerk/
Administrator.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions. 
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 32.06   EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting:  the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the Clerk/Administrator.  A copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business
hours.  Notice of the existence of these regulations and their availability for
inspection at the Clerk/Administrator’s office shall be conspicuously posted at
the front of the city hall or other headquarters of the city or at other places
in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution.  By
resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time.  If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 32.07   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he would otherwise
be entitled under this resolution or under the worker's compensation law, or
under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 32.08   PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
CHAPTER 33:  FEE SCHEDULES
Section
Generally
   
33.01   Pro-rated license fees
   
33.02   Payment of license fees
License, Permit, Rate, Rent and Miscellaneous Structure Fees
   
33.15   Fee schedule
Cross-reference:
   Licensing and permits, see Title XI
   Building and housing, see Title XV
GENERALLY
§ 33.01   PRO-RATED LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Fees for part year licenses timely applied for shall be pro-rated on
the basis of the number of months the license will be in effect in the year
applied for before the license expires, with 1/12 of the original license fee
being charged for each month the license will be in effect.
   (B)   Any part of a month that the license is in effect shall be charged as
a full month in computing the pro-rated license fee.
(Prior Code, Ch. 19 Appendix B-206 § 2)
§ 33.02   PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES.
   License fees for the license-applied for shall be due and payable in full
before the license applied for is issued by the City of Slayton.
(Prior Code, Ch. 19 Appendix B-206 § 3)
LICENSE, PERMIT, RATE, RENT AND MISCELLANEOUS STRUCTURE FEES
§ 33.15   FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following is current list of all licenses, permits, rates and rents and
miscellaneous fees for the City of Slayton.
Description Fee Department Comments
Description            Fee               Department      Comments
*6 inch Diesel pump    $100.00           Equipment       Per Hour- One hour
                                                         minimum
*Backhoe               $125.00           Equipment       Per Hour - One hour
                                                         minimum
*Compressor            $90.00            Equipment       Per Hour - One hour
                                                         minimum
*Grader                $140.00           Equipment       Per Hour - One hour
                                                         minimum
*Jet Machine           $105.00           Equipment       Per Hour + add'l labor
*Loader                $140.00           Equipment       Per Hour - One hour
                                                         minimum
*Mowers                $75.00            Equipment       Per Hour - One hour
                                                         minimum
                                                         Per Hour - One hour
**Mosquito Fogger      $200 + spray      Equipment       minimum, plus ** per
                                                         mile (out of city)
*Paint Striper         $90.00 + paint    Equipment       Per Hour - One hour
                                                         minimum
**Pickup               $35.00            Equipment       Plus ** per mile (out
                                                         of city)
*Sewer Camera          $125.00           Equipment       Per Hour - One hour
                                                         minimum
*Sidewalk Grinder      $65.00            Equipment       Per Hour - One hour
                                                         minimum
*Skid Steer            $100.00           Equipment       Per Hour - One hour
                                                         minimum
*Sweeper               $130.00           Equipment       Per Hour - One hour
                                                         minimum
*Tamper                $60.00            Equipment       Per Hour - One hour
                                                         minimum
*Trash Pump            $50.00            Equipment       Per Hour - One hour
                                                         minimum
*Trucks                $100.00           Equipment       Per Hour - One hour
                                                         minimum
*Vac-All               $120.00           Equipment       Per Hour + add'l labor
*Sanding Parking Lot   $100.00           Equipment       Per parking lot
Airport Hangar/Quarter $195.00           General License Billed per quarter
                                                         with fuel
Bingo License          $25.00            General License Annually January 1
Community Room:        $25.00            General         Based on policy
Deposit Fee                                              category
Community Room 1 - 4   $25.00            General         Based on policy
hours                                                    category
Community Room more                                      Based on policy
than 4 hours and/or    $35.00            General         category
per day
Dangerous Dogs         $300.00           General License Annually- includes
                                                         licenses/tags
Potentially Dangerous  $150.00           General License Annually- includes
Dogs                                                     licenses/tags
Dog/Cat License        $25.00            General License Every two years
Kennel Fee 3 - 5       $100.00           General License Annually - includes
animals                                                  licenses/tags
Kennel Fee 6 - 12      $200.00           General License Annually - includes
animals                                                  licenses/tags
Handle Explosives      $200.00           General License Per event
Permit
Hold Dances/Bands      $15.00            General License Per year
Lost or Destroyed dog/ $5.00             General License  
cat tag
Operate Bowling Alley  $60.00            General License Per year
Operate Game Machines  $15.00            General License Annually January 1
Operate Pool Tables    $15.00            General License Annually January 1
Peddler                $60.00            General License Per application
Sexually Oriented      $1,000.00         General License Annually
annual license fee
Sexually Oriented
application            $1,000.00         General License Non-refundable
/investigation fee
Special Vehicle Permit $25.00            General License Annually January 1
Fee
Tobacco                $100.00           General License Annually January 1
Investigation Fee      $100.00           Liquor Licenses  
Off-Sale               $100.00           Liquor Licenses Annually April 1
Off-Sale 3.2 malt      $25.00            Liquor Licenses Annually April 1
On-Sale                $1,350.00         Liquor Licenses Annually April 1
On-Sale 3.2 malt       $25.00            Liquor Licenses Annually April 1
Sunday On-Sale         $200.00           Liquor Licenses Annually April 1
Temporary On-Sale non- $25.00            Liquor Licenses Per application
profit
Wine/Club              $100.00           Liquor Licenses Annually April 1
Aerobic Pass           $50.00            Pool            Or season pass
All Day                $5.00             Pool             
Evenings               $3.00             Pool             
Family Residential     $135.00           Pool             
Season
Family Season          $155.00           Pool             
Lap Swim               $2.00             Pool            Or season pass
Non Swimmer Pass       $2.00             Pool             
Pool Rental            $160.00/hr        Pool             
Private Lesson         $85.00            Pool             
Punch Card             $45.00            Pool             
Senior Citizen         $2.00             Pool             
Single Residential     $70.00            Pool             
Season
Single Season          $90.00            Pool             
Swimming Lesson        $40.00            Pool             
Address Labels         $1.00/sheet       Services         
Copy of Budget         $20.00            Services         
Copy of City Code of   $90.00            Services         
Ordinances
Copy of City Code of   $95.00            Services         
Ordinances Mailed
Copy of Zoning         $35.00            Services         
Ordinance
Council Meeting Video  $15.00            Services         
Tape
Extrication by Fire    $250.00           Services         
Dept.
Fax                    $1.00             Services        Per page
Fire Call (Major)      $800.00           Services        Plus $150.00 per hour
                                                         starting on fifth hour
Fire Call (Minor)      $300.00           Services         
List of Utility        $10.00            Services         
Customers
NFS Checks             $20.00            Services         
Photo Copies           $0.25             Services        Per page
Meter Obstruction Fee  $50.00            Utility         Per month until
                                                         resolved
Penalty - Additional   $15.00            Utility          
Late Payment Penalty
Penalty - Late Payment $2.00             Utility          
Penalty
Penalty - Non-Payment  $60.00            Utility          
Reconnection Fee
Penalty - Sump Pump                                      Per month until
Violation Surcharge    $75.00            Utility         resolved
Fee
Sewer: Church Rate -   $10.00            Utility          
1/2 Regular Rate
Sewer: Flat Rate       $20.00            Utility         Per housing unit
Sewer: New Connection  $100.00           Utility         Plus additional
Fee                                                      expenses
Surcharge Fee          $3.00             Utility          
Surcharge Fee - Church $1.50                              
rate
Water: Church Rate -   $5.00             Utility          
1/2 Regular Rate
Water: Disconnection                                     During regular working
Fee (shut off at curb  $15.00            Utility         hours
stop)
Water: Disconnection
Fee (shut off at curb  $60.00            Utility         After hours
stop)
Water: Flat Rate       $10.00            Utility         Minimum 2,000 gallons
Water: New Connection  $300.00           Utility         Plus additional
Fee                                                      expenses
                                                         Triple water flat
Water: Non-Metered     triple rate       Utility         rate/sewer flat/
                                                         surcharge
Water: Outside City                                      Triple water flat
Limits                 triple rate       Utility         rate/sewer flat/
                                                         surcharge
Water: Rate for first  $10.00            Utility         Per meter
2,000 gallons
Water: Rate above      $3.00             Utility         Per 1,000 gallons
2,000 gallons
Water: Reconnection                                      During regular working
Fee (turn on at curb   $15.00            Utility         hours
stop)
Water: Reconnection
Fee (turn on at curb   $60.00            Utility         After hours
stop)
Water: Purchase Bulk 0 $30.00            Utility          
- 2,000 gallons
Water: Purchase Bulk   $6.00             Utility         Per 1,000 gallons
2,001+ gallons
Amendments to          $200.00           Zoning           
Ordinance
Application Fee: CUP,  $200.00           Zoning           
Platting, Variance
Special Meeting        $105.00           Zoning           
Violations: After the
Fact CUP & Variance    $400.00           Zoning           
(double fee)
Violations: After the                                    Plus $2.00 per 1,000
Fact Permit to Build   $70.00            Zoning          (cap @ 600)
(double fee)
Non-Compliance with    $400.00           Zoning          Plus administrative
Issued Permit                                            costs
Zoning Permit          $35.00            Zoning          Plus $1.00/thousand
                                                         (cap @ $1,000)
2-Hour Parking         $25.00            Ordinance Fine   
Violation
Animal Run at Large    $50.00            Ordinance Fine   
Animal Run at Large-
2nd Offense w/in 12    $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
Months
Animal Run at Large-
3rd Offense w/in 12    $150.00           Ordinance Fine   
Months
Animal Without License $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
1st Offense
Animal Without License $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
2nd Offense
Animal Without License $150.00           Ordinance Fine   
3rd Offense
Kennel Without License
1st Offense            $150.00           Ordinance Fine   
3-5 dogs
Kennel Without License
2nd Offense            $175.00           Ordinance Fine   
3-5 dogs
Kennel Without License
3rd Offense            $200.00           Ordinance Fine   
3-5 dogs
Kennel Without License
1st Offense            $250.00           Ordinance Fine   
6-12 dogs
Kennel Without License
2nd Offense            $275.00           Ordinance Fine   
6-12 dogs
Kennel Without License
3rd Offense            $300.00           Ordinance Fine   
6-12 dogs
Barking Dog            $50.00            Ordinance Fine   
Barking Dog-2nd        $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
Offense w/in 12 Months
Barking Dog-3rd        $150.00           Ordinance Fine   
Offense w/in 12 Months
Bicycles               $25.00            Ordinance Fine   
Blowing Snow in Street $25.00            Ordinance Fine   
Bomb Threat            $150.00           Ordinance Fine   
Burn Site Violation    $100.00           Ordinance Fine  Up to $100.00
Curfew                 $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Disorderly Conduct     $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
Dog Run at Large       $50.00            Ordinance Fine   
Dog Run at Large-2nd   $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
Offense w/in 12 months
Dog Run at Large-3rd   $150.00           Ordinance Fine   
Offense w/in 12 Months
Exhibition Driving     $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
False Fire Alarms      $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
Fireworks              $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
Golf/All Terrain       $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Vehicle
Graffiti               $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Graffiti-2nd Offense   $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
w/in 12 Months
Handicapped Parking    $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
Junk or Inoperable     $5.00             Ordinance Fine   
Vehicles
Junk or Inoperable
Vehicles-2nd Offense   $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
w/in 12 Months
Littering              $5.00             Ordinance Fine   
Loud Music (50 Feet)   $5.00             Ordinance Fine   
Loud Music (50 Feet)-
2nd Offense w/in 12    $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
Months
Loud Parties           $5.00             Ordinance Fine   
Loud Parties-2nd       $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
Offense w/in 12 Months
Mis-Use of Burn Site   $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
Nuisances Affecting    $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Health
Nuisances Affecting
Health-2nd Offense w/  $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
in 12 Months
Nuisances Affecting    $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Peace and Safety
Nuisances Affecting
Peace and Safety-2nd   $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
Offense w/in 12 Months
Obstruct Sidewalk (24
Hours to Remove        $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Debris)
Open Burning           $25.00            Ordinance Fine   
Open Burning-2nd       $50.00            Ordinance Fine   
Offense w/in 12 Months
Parking (any)          $50.00            Ordinance Fine   
Possession of Drug     $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Paraphernalia
Possession of
Marijuana in a Motor   $150.00           Ordinance Fine   
Vehicle
Possession of Small    $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Amount of Marijuana
Possession of Tobacco  $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
(under 18)
Prohibited Behavior in $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Campground
Public Consumption     $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Public Nuisance        $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Public Nuisance-2nd    $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
Offense w/in 12 Months
Public Urination       $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Remove Animal Feces    $25.00            Ordinance Fine   
Remove Animal Feces-
2nd Offense w/in 12    $50.00            Ordinance Fine   
Months
Skateboards, Scooters, $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Skates (all)
Snowmobile Violation   $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Throw Snowballs at     $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Vehicle/Building
U - Turns              $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Unlawful Noises        $75.00            Ordinance Fine   
Unlawful Noises-2nd    $100.00           Ordinance Fine   
Offense w/in 12 Months
Violation of any                                         Based on Zoning Comm
portion of the Zoning  Up to $100.00/day Ordinance Fine  Recommendation
or Land Use Code
Copy of Accident       $5.00             Police Fee       
Reports
Vehicle Door Unlock    $20.00            Police Fee       
Funeral Escort         $25.00            Police Fee       
Impound Vehicles/      $10.00            Police Fee      Per day
Equipment, etc.
Parking Violation      $200.00           Police Fee      Must be paid prior to
Towing/Boot Fee                                          vehicle release
*Includes employee to run equipment
**Plus current federal milage rate
The following Admin Fines are set by M.S. § 169         State Statute
                                                         Reference #
Speed under 10 mph in
excess of the lawful   $60.00            Admin Fine      169.14
speed limit
Failure to obey stop   $60.00            Admin Fine      169.30
or yield signs
Hitching a sled,
bicycle or other       $60.00            Admin Fine      169.46
similar device onto
any motor vehicle
Motor vehicle safety   $60.00            Admin Fine      169.467- 169.469
Unsafe equipment       $60.00            Admin Fine      169.47
No television or
headphones while       $60.00            Admin Fine      169.471
driving
Use of wireless        $60.00            Admin Fine      169.475
communication device
The following Admin Fines are set by M.S. § 169         State Statute
                                                         Reference #
Vehicle lighting       $60.00            Admin Fine      169.48
Headlamps              $60.00            Admin Fine      169.49
Rear lamps             $60.00            Admin Fine      169.50
Clearance and marker   $60.00            Admin Fine      169.51
lamps
Projecting load; light $60.00            Admin Fine      169.52
or flag
Slow-moving vehicle,   $60.00            Admin Fine      169.522
sign required
Lights for parked      $60.00            Admin Fine      169.53
vehicles
Lighting exemption for
law enforcement;       $60.00            Admin Fine      169.541
standards
Lights on all vehicles $60.00            Admin Fine      169.55
Auxiliary lights       $60.00            Admin Fine      169.56
Vehicle signals        $60.00            Admin Fine      169.57
Identification lamps   $60.00            Admin Fine      169.58
Warning lights         $60.00            Admin Fine      169.59
Distribution of light  $60.00            Admin Fine      169.60
Composite beam         $60.00            Admin Fine      169.61
Certain lights
permitted on old motor $60.00            Admin Fine      169.62
vehicles
The following Admin Fines are set by M.S. § 169         State Statute
                                                         Reference #
Number of lamps        $60.00            Admin Fine      169.63
Prohibited lights;     $60.00            Admin Fine      169.64
exceptions
Specifications for
lighting and other     $60.00            Admin Fine      169.65
devices
Hearing on             $60.00            Admin Fine      169.66
specifications
Brakes                 $60.00            Admin Fine      169.67
Horn, siren            $60.00            Admin Fine      169.68
Muffler                $60.00            Admin Fine      169.69
Motor vehicle noise    $60.00            Admin Fine      169.693
limits
Rear view mirror       $60.00            Admin Fine      169.70
Windshield             $60.00            Admin Fine      169.71
Tire surface, metal    $60.00            Admin Fine      169.72
studs
Unsafe tires,          $60.00            Admin Fine      169.721
definitions
Rules for tire safety  $60.00            Admin Fine      169.722
Tires considered       $60.00            Admin Fine      169.723
unsafe
Prohibition; operating
automobile with unsafe $60.00            Admin Fine      169.724
tires
Tire safety            $60.00            Admin Fine      169.725
enforcement
Automobile sale
prohibited unless      $60.00            Admin Fine      169.726
tires are safe
The following Admin Fines are set by M.S. § 169         State Statute
                                                         Reference #
Unsafe tires;          $60.00            Admin Fine      169.727
misdemeanor
Bumper, safeguards     $60.00            Admin Fine      169.73
Wheel flaps on truck   $60.00            Admin Fine      169.733
and trailer
Automobile fenders     $60.00            Admin Fine      169.734
Safety glass           $60.00            Admin Fine      169.74
Bug deflector          $60.00            Admin Fine      169.743
Flares, flags or       $60.00            Admin Fine      169.75
reflectors required
 
(Ord. 310, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 318, passed 11-5-2007; Am. Ord. 328,
passed 12-21-2009; Am. Ord. 331, passed 12-20-2010; Am. Ord. 334, passed 5-4-
2015; Am. Ord. 343, passed 2-19-2020)
CHAPTER 34:  FINANCES
Section
   
34.01   Emergency protection fire services; charge for fire service
§ 34.01   EMERGENCY PROTECTION FIRE SERVICES; CHARGE FOR FIRE SERVICES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.  This section is adopted for the purpose of
authorizing the City of Slayton to charge for fire service as authorized by
M.S. §§ 366.011, 366.012, and 415.01, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT means a contract between the city and a town or
other city for the city to provide fire service.
      FIRE SERVICE means any deployment of fire fighting personnel and/or
equipment to extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort
to protect equipment, life, or property in an area threatened by fire, It also
includes the deployment of fire fighting personnel and/or equipment to provide
fire suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire
and rescue as may occasionally occur.
      FIRE SERVICE CHARGE means the charge imposed by the city for receiving
fire service.
      MOTOR VEHICLE means any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes SEMI TRAILERS. It dots
not include snowmobiles, manufactured homes, all terrain vehicles, or park
trailers.
      MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT means an agreement between the city and a town or
other city for the city's fire department to provide assistance to the fire
department of a town or other city.
   (C)   Parties affected.
      (1)   Owners of property within the city who receive fire service.
      (2)   Anyone who receives tire service as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire within the city.
      (3)   Owners of property in towns or cities to which the city provides
fire service pursuant to a fire protection contract.
   (D)   Rates.  The fees used shall be established from time to time by City
Council ordinance.
   (E)   Billing and collection.
      (1)   Parties requesting and receiving fire services may be billed
directly by the city. Additionally, if the party receiving fire services did
not request services but a fire or other situation exists which, at the
discretion of the fire department personnel in charge requires fire service,
the party will be charged and billed. All parties will be billed whether or not
the fire service is covered by insurance. Any billable amount of the fire
charge not covered by a party's insurance remains a debt of the party receiving
the fire service.
      (2)   Parties billed for fire service will have 30 days to pay. If the
fire service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent
and the city will send a notice of delinquency.
      (3)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after this
notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and reasonable
legal means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving fire
service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
      (4)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the
notice of delinquency is sent, the City Council may also, on or before October
15 of each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the county auditor
in which the recipient of the services owns real property for collection with
property taxes. The county auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all
charges collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner
notice of its intent to certify the unpaid fire service charge by September 15.
      (5)   False alarms or won't be billed as a fire call.
   (F)   Mutual aid agreement.  When the city fire department provides fire
service to another fire department pursuant to a mutual aid agreement, the
billing will be determined by the mutual aid agreement.
   (G)   Application of collections to budget.  All collected fire charges will
be city funds and used to offset the expenses of the city fire department in
providing fire services.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-21-2007)
CHAPTER 35:  CITY POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Criminal history background check for certain applicants for employment
§ 35.01  CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECK FOR CERTAIN APPLICANTS FOR
EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Established.  A criminal history background check for certain persons
applying for employment with the city shall be established.
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   The Slayton Police Department, through the Muarray County Sheriff’s
Department, is authorized to complete a criminal history background
investigation on certain applicants for employment with the city. This section
only applies to applicants who are finalists for paid positions with the city.
The paid positions can be either full-time paid positions or part-time paid
positions. Before any investigation is undertaken by the Police Department, the
applicant must authorize the Police Department in writing to undertake the
investigation and to release any information gathered during the investigation
and to release any information gathered during the investigation as provided in
division (B)(3) below. The written consent must fully comply with the
provisions of M.S. Ch. 13, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding
the collection, maintenance and use of the information.
      (2)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation, the
Police Department shall coordinate the investigation with the Murray County
Sheriff’s Department and may access data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of
Criminal Apprehension’s Computerized Criminal History information system in
accordance with the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension policy. The Police
Department is also authorized to access any other automated and non-automated
sources to conduct criminal history background investigations.
      (3)   Any data that is accessed and acquired by the Police Department
shall be maintained at the Police Department under the care and custody of the
Chief of Police or his or her designee. A summary of the results of the
criminal history background investigation may be released by the Police
Department and to the City Clerk/Administrator or to his or her designee. The
City Clerk/Administrator or his or her designee shall determine if the
information from the criminal history background investigation should be
released further to the City Council or other city staff involved in the hiring
process.
      (4)   The city will not reject an applicant for employment on the basis
of an applicant’s prior criminal conviction unless the crime is directly
related to the position of employment sought (using the criteria set forth in
M.S. § 364.03, Subdivision 2, as it may be amended from time to time) and the
conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor with jail
sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request for employment due
partially or solely on the applicant’s prior conviction of a crime, the City
Clerk/Administrator or his or her designee shall notify the applicant in
writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
         (b)   The applicant compliant and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment; and
         (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
   (C)   Violation a misdemeanor.  Any person who violates this section,
subdivision, paragraph or provision of this section, when he or she performs an
act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or fails to act when the failure
is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished as for a misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific
provisions hereof.
(Ord. 326, passed 11-16-2009)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
   
51.   WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50:  SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
Separation, Collection and Disposal
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Mandatory collection of recyclables and garbage
   
50.03   Littering
   
50.04   Minimum standards
Burning Garbage
   
50.15   Purpose
   
50.16   Standards
SEPARATION, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 50.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE.  Includes household chemicals that have the
potential to pollute the environment. The characteristics of the substances
will be considered HAZARDOUS if 1 or more of the following could occur: become
acidic or caustic; become toxic, long or short term, from exposure; produce or
potential to produce toxic leachate; potentially explosive or reactive;
potential to initiate fires or catch fire.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE.  Waste that is generated by business or industry.
   LITTERING.  The placing of refuse, debris, waste or similar material,
hereafter referred to as litter materials, on properties, roadways and rights-
of-way other than that owned by the owner or carrier of the litter, either by
deliberate act or by being dropped or blown from a vehicle while being
transported due to failure to take proper safeguards to prevent the same.
   PUTRESCIBLE MATERIAL OR GARBAGE.  Solid waste which is capable of becoming
rotten or which may reach a foul state of decay or decomposition.
   RECYCLABLES.  Those materials named by resolution and accepted by the
recycling collection service to be separated from the solid waste stream.
   RECYCLING COLLECTION SERVICE.  Any commercial business or other entity
established to collect, transport, process, store, redeem or dispose of
recyclables and who is Murray County licensed and contracted by the City of
Slayton.
   REFUSE.  Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, including, but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue,
street cleanings, market and industrial solid wastes, and sewage treatment
wastes which are in a dry form.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.  All occupied single and double-family dwellings,
mobile homes and mobile home parks.
   SOLID WASTE.  Garbage, refuse and other discarded solid materials, including
solid waste materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural
operations, residential uses and community activities, but does not include
earthen fill, boulders, rock and other materials normally handled in
construction operations, animal waste used as fertilizer, any permitted
material disposed of as soil amendment, solids or dissolved material in
domestic sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as
silt, wastewater effluent, dissolved materials, suspended solids in irrigation,
return flows, or other water pollutants.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SERVICE.  The collection and transporting of solid
waste generated in Slayton by a Murray County licensed hauling service
contracted by the city.
   TOXIC OR HAZARDOUS WASTES.  Substances, whether in liquid, gaseous or solid
form, which when collected, stored, transported or disposed of, may be acutely
toxic to humans, or other animals, or plant life, or be directly damaging to
property including, but not limited to, pesticides, acids, caustics,
pathological wastes, radioactive materials, flammable or explosive materials,
and similar noxious substances.
   WHITE GOODS.  Include household items such as stoves, refrigerators,
washers, dryers, hot water heaters, furnaces, air conditioners, dishwashers,
microwave ovens, television sets and freezers.
   YARD WASTE.  Includes leaves, trees (branches, twigs, stumps, roots, trunks)
garden waste and grass clippings.
(Prior Code, § 11.101)
§ 50.02   MANDATORY COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLES AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   All recyclable material shall be separated from other garbage and
refuse and handled in the manner described in a Council resolution regulating
mandatory recycling.
   (B)   All non-recyclable material (i.e. mixed municipal solid waste) shall
be grouped together and placed in 1 or more containers provided by each
residential unit for mandatory collection by a Murray County permitted and
licensed solid waste collection service who has been contracted by the City of
Slayton. Nonrecyclable material shall be distinguished as being identical to
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency’s definition of solid waste refuse,
putrescibles and garbage.
   (E)   The solid waste collection service contracted by the City of Slayton
will be responsible for the collection of solid waste and will transport the
waste to the Murray County Solid Waste Disposal Facility or to another
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency permitted disposal site as directed by the
Murray County Board of Commissioners through resolution.
   (F)   The recycling material collection service contracted by the City of
Slayton will be responsible for the collection and disposal of the recyclable
material at the Murray County Recycling Center.
   (G)   Mixed municipal solid waste excludes tires, oil, batteries, recyclable
materials, white goods, yard waste, household hazardous waste, infectious
waste, hazardous waste and industrial waste, as defined by Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency (MPCA). It shall be illegal for any person to put the above
items in containers used for collection of mixed municipal solid waste.
   (H)   Materials ownership: all recyclable materials and solid waste placed
for collection shall be owned by, and be the responsibility of, the occupants
of the residential properties (residents) until the contractor collects them.
The recyclable materials become the property and responsibility of the
contractor upon the contractor’s acceptance and collection of the items. Theft
of this property will be considered a misdemeanor.
   (I)   The City of Slayton shall have the continuing power to designate a
party or parties responsible for enforcement of this chapter by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 11.102) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.03   LITTERING.
   In order to promote public safety, health, peace and welfare by regulating
the hauling and transportation of garbage and other waste material, the City
Council of the City of Slayton, Minnesota, hereby declares that:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to litter within the city limits of
Slayton and vehicles used to transport shall be loaded and moved in a manner so
that the litter will not fall, leak or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to
prevent the blowing of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall
be picked up immediately by the transporter and returned to the vehicle and/or
container and the area properly cleaned; and
   (B)   All vehicles and containers used for the collection and transportation
of toxic or hazardous wastes shall be durable, enclosed and leak proof and
shall be constructed, loaded, moved and unloaded in a safe manner and in
compliance with the applicable regulations of federal, state and local
governments and their regulatory agencies.
(Prior Code, § 11.103) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.04   MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter are either
more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any
other provision of this chapter or any other applicable law, ordinance, rule or
regulation, the provision that establishes the higher standards for the
promotion and protection of the public health, safety and general welfare shall
prevail.
(Prior Code, § 11.104)
BURNING GARBAGE
§ 50.15   PURPOSE.
   That it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company or corporation to
burn rubbish of any kind, including boxes, papers, leaves and the like, within
the heretofore established City of Slayton.
(Prior Code, § 11.201) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.16   STANDARDS.
   That material heretofore defined as garbage, shall not be burned either in
the open or in incinerators in the city, but it must be hauled to the site
designated at a waste disposal facility, as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 11.202)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
Sewers and Street Excavations
   
51.01   City Council to control
   
51.02   Plans to be approved
   
51.03   Prerequisites to issuance of permits
   
51.04   Sewer permits
   
51.05   Completion and connection with public sewer
   
51.06   Construction requirements
   
51.07   Separate connections
   
51.08   Obstruction prohibited
   
51.09   Steam exhaust
   
51.10   Rain spouts
   
51.11   Inflammable liquids
   
51.12   Grease
   
51.13   Slops and industrial wastes
   
51.14   Inspection and repairs
   
51.15   Street excavations
Metered Water Supplies; Discharges Prohibited
   
51.30   Water to be metered
   
51.31   Meters to be installed, read and repaired by city
   
51.32   Damaging meters prohibited
   
51.33   Discharges prohibited
Comprehensive System for Administering Water and Sewer Rates
   
51.45   Definitions
   
51.46   Accounts
   
51.47   Billing
   
51.48   Users outside city limits and non-metered users
   
51.49   Usage
   
51.50   Water and sewer hookup fee
   
51.51   Shut-off and re-connection fees
   
51.52   Utility rate schedule
   
51.53   Delinquent accounts
SEWER AND STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 51.01   CITY COUNCIL TO CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have control of the drainage and sewer system, and of
all drains and sewers now or hereafter built or authorized by the municipality,
and the building, repair and maintenance thereof, and connections therewith.
(Prior Code, § 15.101)
§ 51.02   PLANS TO BE APPROVED.
   No drain shall be built, repaired, extended or connected with any public
sewer or drain unless and until all of the provisions of this chapter are
complied with and a permit for the building, repair or extension, and
connection has been issued as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 15.102) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.03   PREREQUISITES TO ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   No drain shall be built, repaired, extended or connected with the
public sewer, except by a person duly licensed, in accordance with the code of
the city; nor shall a permit be issued or approved except when granted to the
person.
   (B)   No drain shall be built, repaired, extended or connected with the
public sewer nor shall a permit be issued or approved except when granted to
the person.
   (C)   No drain shall be built, repaired, extended or connected with the
public sewer nor shall a permit for any like work be issued or approved unless
and until all assessments for sewer construction, or the installments thereof
as shall be due at the time the connection is made, against the property to be
drained, shall be paid.
(Prior Code, § 15.103) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.04   SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   All applications for sewer permits shall be made to the City Clerk/
Administrator by the person employed to do the work.
   (B)   The applicant shall, before beginning work upon the sewer to be
constructed, repaired or extended, deposit with the City Clerk/Administrator a
plan thereof, which shall show the whole course of the drain from its
connection with the sewer to its terminus within the house, with the location
of all branches, traps and fixtures connected therewith.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit drawings of the sewer proposed to be
constructed.
   (D)   If the proposed sewer, as shown in the drawings, complies with the
provisions as determined by the Public Works Director and other municipal
chapters, it shall authorize the granting of the permit.
   (E)   The drawings shall be filed as a permanent record in the office of the
Clerk/Administrator.
   (F)   The form for application is available at Slayton City Hall.
   (G)   After the application has been approved by the Council, and the
applicant has paid to the City Clerk/Administrator a fee as set out in §
33.15, the Clerk/Administrator shall grant the permit by affixing his or her
signature on the blank provided for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 15.104)
§ 51.05   COMPLETION AND CONNECTION WITH PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   Thereupon the person to whom the permit was granted may proceed with
the construction of the sewer in accordance therewith. He or she shall notify
the City Clerk/Administrator of the progress of the work at stages in the
course of the construction as the City Clerk/Administrator may direct; and in
particular shall notify the City Clerk/Administrator when the construction of
the sewer is complete and ready for connection with the public sewer, but
before a connection is made; and if the sewer is satisfactory to the City
Council in all respects and complies with all the requirements of the municipal
plumbing code and other chapters of the city, he or she shall affix his or her
signature to the sewer connection permit below the sewer construction permit;
and thereafter, but not before the sewer may be connected with the public
sewer.
   (B)   In the case of repair or extension of existing sewers or any work not
requiring any tapping of or connection with the public sewer, the work may be
completed, after the granting of the sewer construction permit, without the
granting of the sewer connection permit; but the City Council shall inspect the
work after it is completed and shall require that the work be done
satisfactorily and in compliance with the law before the excavations are fill
in.
(Prior Code, § 15.105)
§ 51.06   CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All connections with the public sewers shall be made with iron or
vitrified stoneware pipe having an internal diameter of 6 inches.
   (B)   No sewer pipe connecting with any public sewer shall have a fall of
less than 2/10 inch to the foot.
   (C)   All pipes shall be inspected by the City Council before the same is
laid and be subject to its approval.
   (D)   If any connection has been laid from a public sewer to the street
line, the pipe shall in no instance be covered until the same has been duly
inspected by the City Council and approved.
   (E)   The requirements of this chapter regulating excavations in public
streets are to be strictly compiled with in excavating for sewers.
(Prior Code, § 15.106) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.07   SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   Every building shall be separately and independently connected with the
public sewer, and in no instance, with the exception of a single dwelling
house, shall an area greater than 100 feet frontage be drained through 1
connection.
(Prior Code, § 15.107) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.08   OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No refuse or solids of any sort obstructive to the flow of waste water shall
be placed, thrown or allowed to enter any public sewer, or allowed to remain on
or in any trap or catch basin so as to obstruct the sewer; and no person shall
injure or break or remove any portion of any catch basin, covering flag, gully
grating, flush tank or manhole, or any part of any sewer, nor do any act
obstructing or in any way interfering with the use of any sewer or the flow of
waste water through any sewer.
(Prior Code, § 15.108) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.09   STEAM EXHAUST.
   No steam exhaust or blow off shall be connected with any soil or waste pipe
or drain which communicates with a public sewer.
(Prior Code, § 15.109) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.10   RAIN SPOUTS.
   No rain spout or any other form of surface drainage shall connect with or
enter any public sewer in any municipality.
(Prior Code, § 15.110) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.11   INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   No waste from dyeing, clothes cleaning or other establishments using
naphtha, gasoline or other inflammable liquids, shall enter into any public
sewer.
(Prior Code, § 15.111) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.12   GREASE.
   A grease trap and grated slop basin shall be constructed under the sink of
every laundry, hotel, eating house, restaurant or other public cooking
establishment.
(Prior Code, § 15.112) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.13   SLOPS AND INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   All refuse from butcher shops, rendering establishments, packinghouses
and other industrial establishments must be intercepted by some form of catch
basin or grated slop basin and not allowed to enter the sewer.
   (B)   No refuse, either liquid or solid, of a character, quality or nature
that will unreasonably interfere with the ordinary treatment processes of any
sewage treatment plant now or thereafter operated by the municipality shall be
discharged into any public sewer or drain of this municipality.
(Prior Code, § 15.113) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.14   INSPECTION AND REPAIRS.
   (A)   The City Council or any member of the Board of Health, or any
representative of either of them, shall have the right to enter upon any
premises or into any building in the municipality, at all reasonable hours, to
inspect the sewer and drains and traps and fixtures connected therewith.
   (B)   If it shall be found from inspection or otherwise that the provisions
of law are not being complied with in any respect or that any part of the
drainage system is in need of cleaning out or repairs, the representative of
the City Council, or of the Board of Health, shall serve a notice at once, or
as soon as may be, upon the owner, and upon the occupant, and upon the person
in charge of the premises specifying the work necessary to be done to make the
sewer system comply with the law, or to put it in good workable condition.
   (C)   The notice shall also specify a time that is reasonable considering
the amount of work to be done, and the nature of the emergency, within which
the defects must be remedied.
   (D)   It shall thereupon become the duty of every person served with the
notice to comply therewith; and if it is not complied with, the municipality
may cause the work to be done at the expense of any person so served.
(Prior Code, § 15.114) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.15   STREET EXCAVATION.
   (A)   No person shall make any excavation in any street, sidewalk or public
ground without first having secured a permit therefor from the Clerk/
Administrator.
   (B)   The fee for the permit shall be as set out in §
33.15, but when a fee is paid for a sewer construction permit or a permit to
connect with the water supply, the excavation permit for the necessary digging
incidental to the installation of the sewer or water pipes shall be issued
without any additional fee.
   (C)   Every applicant must sign an agreement in substantially the following
terms. In consideration of the granting of the excavation permit this day
applied for, the undersigned agrees:
      (1)   To do the work as directed by the City Council so as to occasion
the least possible inconvenience to the public, and to provide for the passage
of water along the gutters;
      (2)   To leave at least 1/2 of the street clear for the passage of
vehicles, and to provide safe bridgeways on sidewalks for foot passengers;
      (3)   To guard any open excavation with substantial railings constructed
and placed so as to bar all entrance to the excavations, and at night to show
the limits of the railings and excavations by red lights; and also to mark the
limits of piles of material by red lights;
      (4)   To refill the excavations as soon as is reasonably possible, and
replace paving, sidewalks and all appurtenances in at least as good condition
as before the excavation; in refilling, to lay the earth in layers not over 6
inches deep, and to puddle each layer thoroughly. If, within 1 year after the
refilling, the City Council shall find any defects caused by improper
excavation or improper refilling, to remedy the defects on reasonable notice.
If the person doing the excavation work shall fail to remedy any defect found
therein within a year after its completion, upon notice from the City Council,
the municipality may cause the work to be done at his or her expense;
      (5)   To remove at once all rubbish and surplus earth; and
      (6)   To indemnify and hold the municipality harmless from all damages or
claims arising out of the excavation work or accidents caused or claimed by the
injured party to have been caused by the excavation or by the failure to do the
work or guard it properly.
(Prior Code, § 15.115)
   (D)   The contractor is required to have a certificate of insurance.
Penalty, see § 10.99
METERED WATER SUPPLIES; DISCHARGES PROHIBITED
§ 51.30   WATER TO BE METERED.
   No water shall be furnished to any residential customer from the
municipality water plant unless that same is measured by a meter installed by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 15.201) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.31   METERS TO BE INSTALLED, READ AND REPAIRED BY CITY.
   (A)   Every property owner applying for or receiving service from the
municipal water plant shall provide a warm, safe place to keep the meter and
shall permit any duly authorized employee of the city to enter upon the
premises at any reasonable hour to install, read, repair or inspect any water
meter.
   (B)   The customer is prohibited from obstructing the water meter (located
on the inside of the premises) and/or the water meter electronic touch pad
(located on the outside of the premises) so as to prohibit the installing,
reading, repairing or inspecting of either apparatus. Obstruction shall also
include any animal that prohibits a city employee from accessing either
apparatus.
   (C)   In the event the water and/or water meter electronic touch pad
persistently cannot be installed, read, repaired or inspected due to an
obstruction, which includes animals, the city may charge a non- refundable fee
as set out in §
33.15, plus an estimated water bill based on the customer’s history of use, for
each month that the water meter and/or water meter electronic touch pad cannot
be accessed.
(Prior Code, § 15.202)  (Am. Ord. 322, passed 6-1-2009; Am. Ord. 332, passed 2-
7-2011) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.32   DAMAGING METERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall damage or knowingly or negligently permit damage to be
done to a water meter on his or her premises or elsewhere.
   (B)   Any person damaging any meter or knowingly or negligently permitting
the same to be damaged shall pay all costs of making the required repairs to
the meters upon demand therefor by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 15.203) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.33   DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
groundwater, roof runoff, yard drainage, yard fountain, pond overflow or any
substance other than sanitary sewage into the sanitary collection system,
except as hereinafter permitted in this section by division (F) below.
   (A)   No roof runoff, sump pump, swimming pool discharge or surface water
drainage shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system and no building shall
hereafter be constructed nor shall any existing buildings be hereafter altered
in a manner so that the roof drainage or any other source of discharge or
drainage other than sanitary sewer shall connect with the sanitary system
inside or outside the building.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation having a roof, sump pump, swimming
pool discharge, cistern overflow pipe or surface drain now connected and/or
discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall disconnect and/or remove same
prior to November 1, 2010. Any disconnects or openings in the sanitary sewer
shall be closed or repaired in an effective, workman-like manner as described
in division (C) below.
   (C)   All sump pumps shall have a discharge pipe installed to the outside
wall of the building with a 1-inch inside minimum diameter. The pipe attachment
must be a permanent fitting such as PVC pipe outside of the foundation wall.
Water must be directed onto resident’s property or the city’s curb and gutter.
   (D)   (1)   Every person owning improved real estate that discharges into
the city’s sanitary sewer system shall allow City of Slayton employees to
inspect the buildings to confirm that there is no sump pump or other prohibited
discharge into the sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Any persons refusing to allow their property to be inspected shall
immediately become subject to the surcharge hereinafter provided for.
      (3)   Any property found to violate this section shall make the necessary
changes to comply with this section and the changes shall be verified by City
of Slayton employees.
   (E)   A surcharge as set out in §
33.15 is hereby imposed and shall be added to every sewer billing mailed on and
after November 1, 2010 to property owners who are not in compliance with this
section.  The surcharge shall be added every month, until the property is in
compliance. Owners are responsible to notify City Hall at a time they feel
compliance is met and make arrangements for city employees to inspect. The
imposition of a surcharge shall in no way limit the right of the City of
Slayton to seek an injunction in District Court ordering the property owner to
disconnect the non-conforming connection to the sanitary sewer system or from
pursuing any other legal remedies available.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter to the contrary
applications may be made at City Hall for a permit allowing a sump pump to be
connected to and discharged into the sanitary sewer system between the dates of
November 1 and the following March 31 for any winter season.
      (1)   If the permit is granted the applicant shall be required, as a
condition of the permit, to notify City Hall on or before the March 31
expiration date of the permit that the sump pump has been disconnected from the
sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Failure by an applicant to whom a permit has been issued to notify
City Hall by the March 31 expiration date of the permit that the sump pump on
the property has been disconnected from the sanitary sewer system will result
in the applicant being in noncompliance with this section and subject to the
surcharge in division (D) above and other legal remedies available to enforce
the provisions of this section.
   (G)   Upon verified compliance with this section the city reserves the right
to inspect property annually to verify compliance herewith.
(Prior Code, § 15.301)  (Am. Ord. 321, passed 2-18-2009) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
COMPREHENSIVE SYSTEM FOR ADMINISTERING WATER AND SEWER RATES
§ 51.45   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOUNT.  A record of utility services used by each property and the
periodic costs for those utility services.
   CITY.  The City of Slayton, County of Murray, State of Minnesota.
   CITY UTILITY SYSTEM.  Facilities used for providing public utility service
owned or operated by city or agency thereof, including sewer, storm sewer and
water service.
   UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE.  A schedule of all utility rates and charges set by
ordinance of the city. Late payment penalties fees. A schedule of late payment
penalties set by ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 305, passed 4-18-2005)
§ 51.46   ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who personally,
or by his or her authorized agent, applied for the service.
   (B)   The owner shall be liable for water and sewer services and penalties
supplied to the property, whether he or she is occupying the property or not,
and any unpaid charges shall be a lien upon the property.
(Ord. 305, passed 4-18-2005)
§ 51.47   BILLING.
   (A)   Water and sewer charges shall be billed on 1 bill as applicable to
each account. All charges for water and sewer shall be due upon receipt and
considered delinquent after the fifteenth day of the month in which it is
billed.
   (B)   All bills shall contain the title, address and telephone number of the
official in charge of billing; the title, address and phone number shall be
clearly visible and easily readable. Bills shall be mailed to the customers on
the first day of each month or in the case of a weekend or holiday the next
regular business day.
   (C)   Bills shall specify the water consumed and the sewer charges in
accordance with the current fee schedule and delinquent charges that are set by
ordinance and adopted by the City Council.
   (D)   A surcharge fee shall be added to each account, regardless of
occupancy, to be used exclusively for the capital expenditures necessary to
sustain the city utility system. These monies will be kept in a separate
account and used only when authorized by the City Council.
   (E)   All accounts shall be billed a sewer rate, regardless of occupancy,
set by ordinance and adopted by the City Council.
   (F)   Apartments that are not metered separately shall be charged a
surcharge fee per unit regardless of occupancy. Each unit will be charged a
flat fee for sewer per month regardless of occupancy. The surcharge fee and
sewer fee will be set by ordinance and adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 305, passed 4-18-2005)
§ 51.48   USERS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS AND NON-METERED USERS.
   (A)   Water and sewer rates for current users outside the corporate limits
of the City of Slayton and accounts that have no meters shall be triple. Non-
metered hydrant use shall be triple.
   (B)   Any new account requesting water or sewer service outside city limits
will not be granted until such time as the property is annexed.
(Ord. 305, passed 4-18-2005)
§ 51.49   USAGE.
   Usage in any part of a month shall be charged as a full month in computing
partial water and sewer bill for a user.
(Ord. 305, passed 4-18-2005)
§ 51.50   WATER AND SEWER HOOKUP FEE.
   (A)   An initial water hookup fee shall be set by ordinance and adopted by
City Council for new connections into the city water systems.
   (B)   Any cost including, but not limited to, material and/or labor that
exceed the hookup fee will be added to the hookup fee for new connections or
connections that require updating. These fees are for a standard 5/8-inch
meter; any other meter would have additional costs.
   (C)   An initial sewer hookup fee shall be set by ordinance and adopted by
City Council and charged for new connections into the city sewer systems.
(Ord. 305, passed 4-18-2005)
§ 51.51   SHUT-OFF AND RE-CONNECTION FEES.
   A fee shall be set by ordinance and adopted by City Council and charged by
the City of Slayton for shutting off and reconnecting a currently existing
connection into the city utility system.
(Ord. 305, passed 4-18-2005)
§ 51.52   UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The utility rate schedule shall be adopted by ordinance of the City
Council.
   (B)   The late payment penalty fee shall be adopted by ordinance of the City
Council.
(Ord. 305, passed 4-18-2005)
§ 51.53   DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Penalties.
      (1)   A late payment penalty shall be assessed on all accounts if payment
is not received by the due date on the bill.
      (2)   An additional late payment penalty shall be assessed on all
accounts if payment is not received within 30 days of the due date.
      (3)   Penalties are specified with the current fee schedule charges that
are set by ordinance and adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   Shut-off for non-payment. Water shall not be shut-off until notice and
an opportunity for a hearing before the City Council or an employee designated
by the City Council have been provided to the occupant and owner of the
premises involved.
      (1)   If any payment is not paid by the due date listed on the bill, a
second bill will be mailed by first class mail and shall state that if payment
is not made within 10 days of the mailing of the second bill, water service to
the premises will be shut off for non-payment.
      (2)   The second bill and shut off notice shall contain the title,
address and telephone number of the official in charge of the billing; the
title, address and phone number shall be clearly visible and easily readable.
      (3)   The notice shall also state that any occupant or owner has the
right to a hearing before the water is shut off. The owner or occupant may be
represented in person and by counsel or any other person of his or her
choosing. The owner or occupant may present orally or in writing his or her
complaint to the city official in charge of utility billing. This official
shall be authorized to order continuation of the customer's service and shall
have the authority to adjust the customer's bill or enter into a mutually
agreeable payment plan. If a mutually agreeable solution cannot be agreed upon,
the matter will come before the City Council.
      (4)   If an occupant or owner requests a hearing, the water shall not be
shut off until the hearing process is complete.
      (5)   If a customer fails to pay and fails to request a hearing under
this part, service will be shut off at the time specified in the notice but not
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   Certification for collection with taxes. Accounts which are delinquent
as of September 1 in each year will be notified by letter as follows:
      (1)   Unpaid charges on water and sewer accounts shall not be certified
to the County Auditor until notice and an opportunity for a hearing have been
provided to the owner of the premises involved. The notice shall be sent by
first class mail and shall state that if payment is not made before the date
for certification, the entire amount unpaid plus penalties will be certified to
the County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected. The notice
shall also state that the occupant may, before the certification date, attend a
hearing on the matter to object to certification of unpaid utility charges;
      (2)   A hearing shall be held on the matter by the City Council. Property
owners with unpaid utility charges shall have the opportunity to object to the
certification of unpaid charges to be collected as taxes are collected. If,
after the hearing, the City Council finds that the amounts claimed as
delinquent are actually due and unpaid and that there is no legal reason why
the unpaid charges should not be certified for collection with taxes in
accordance with this subchapter the city may certify the unpaid charges to the
County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected;
      (3)   For each certification sustained, the property owner shall have the
following options after the hearing:
         (a)   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll, but
without additional interest after the hearing, within 10 days of the hearing
date;
         (b)   To pay the certified delinquent amount after the hearing date,
but before the county certification deadline, with interest at the rate set in
the adopted rate schedule, accrued beginning on the eleventh day following the
hearing date through the date of payment; or
         (c)   To pay the certified charges as billed to them by Murray County
on their property tax statement with a collection term of 1 year.
      (4)   Fifteen days after the hearing, the certified roll, minus any
payments, shall be delivered to Murray County.
(Am. Ord. 311, passed 12-19-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   TRAFFIC; VEHICLE OPERATION
   
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
72.   MUNICIPAL AIRPORT; AERIAL APPLICATION
   
73.   SNOWMOBILES
   
74.   GOLF CARTS AND ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES
   
75.   BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
   
76.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
77.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC; VEHICLE OPERATION
Section
General Regulations
   
70.01   State Act adopted by reference
   
70.02   Restriction on turns
   
70.03   Through streets; one-way streets
   
70.04   Truck restrictions
   
70.05   Seasonal weight restrictions
   
70.06   Careless and/or exhibition driving
   
70.07   Terms used
U-Turns
   
70.20   Permitted
   
70.21   Identification
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01   STATE ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Minnesota Statutes Ch. 169, as amended from time to time, known as the
Highway Traffic Regulation Act, is adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating
the use of streets and is incorporated and made a part of this chapter as
completely as if set out in full in this chapter.
   (B)   The penalty for violations of the provisions of state statutes adopted
by reference in this chapter shall be identical with the penalties provided for
in the statutes for the same offense.
(Prior Code, § 14.101)
§ 70.02   RESTRICTION ON TURNS.
   (A)   The City Council by resolution may, whenever necessary to preserve a
free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents, designate any intersection as one
where the turning of vehicles to the left or to the right, or both, is to be
restricted at all times or during specified hours.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall mark by appropriate signs any
intersection so designated.
   (C)   No intersection on a trunk highway shall be so designated until the
consent of the Commissioner of Transportation to that designation is first
obtained.
   (D)   No person shall turn a vehicle at any like intersection contrary to
the directions on the signs.
(Prior Code, § 14.102)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03   THROUGH STREETS; ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Council by resolution may designate any street or portion of
street as a through highway or a 1-way roadway where necessary to preserve the
free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall post appropriate signs at the entrance
to that street.
   (C)   No trunk highway shall be so designated unless the consent of the
Commissioner of Transportation to that designation is first secured.
(Prior Code, § 14.103)
§ 70.04   TRUCK RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council by resolution may designate streets on which travel
by commercial vehicles in excess of 10,000 pounds gross weight is prohibited.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall erect appropriate signs on like
streets.
   (C)   No person shall operate a commercial vehicle on the posted streets in
violation of the restrictions stated.
(Prior Code, § 14.105)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05   SEASONAL WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Public Works Director may prohibit the operation of vehicles upon
any street under his or her jurisdiction or impose weight restrictions on
vehicles to be operated on a street whenever the street by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic conditions, will be seriously
damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles on the street is prohibited or
the permissible weights thereof reduced.
   (B)   He or she shall erect and maintain signs plainly indicating the
prohibition or restriction at each end of that portion of the street affected.
No person shall operate a vehicle on a posted street in violation of the
prohibition or restriction.
(Prior Code, § 14.106)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06   CARELESS AND/OR EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   (A)   Careless driving. No person shall operate or halt any vehicle upon a
highway carelessly or heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others
in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property.
   (B)   Exhibition driving. No person shall operate any vehicle in a manner so
as to create or cause unnecessary engine noise, tire squealing, skid or slide
upon acceleration or stopping, or in a manner so as to simulate a race or
temporary race, or to cause the vehicle to unnecessarily sway or turn abruptly,
or to impede traffic.
(Prior Code, § 14.201)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07   TERMS USED.
   For the purpose of §
70.06 above, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET.  Any street, avenue, place, drive or any other public way in the
City of Slayton.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 14.202)
U-TURNS
§ 70.20   PERMITTED.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate an intersection or a
portion of a street or avenue as an area where U-turns will be permitted either
at all times or during specified hours.
   (B)   Appropriate signs will be posted by the City of Slayton at the
intersection or portion of the street or avenue designated, as an area where U-
turns will be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 14.1001)
§ 70.21   IDENTIFICATION.
   Appropriate warning signs shall be erected at intersections where U-turns
are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 14.1003)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   The city hereby authorizes the issuance of administrative citations
for traffic offenses designated at M.S. § 169.999, Subdivision 1(b)(1), (2) and
(3), as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   The city hereby sets the fine for committing an administrative traffic
violation designated by M.S. § 169.999, as it may be amended from time to time,
and this section at the amount designated by M.S. § 169.999, Subdivision 5, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   The city hereby directs that only licensed city peace officers may
issue administrative traffic citations authorized by this section.
   (D)   The city hereby directs that no city peace officer may issue an
administrative traffic citation in violation of M.S. § 169.999, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   The city hereby directs that no administrative traffic citation
authorized by this section may be issued to a holder of a commercial driver’s
license or the driver of a commercial vehicle in which the administrative
violation was committed.
   (F)   The city hereby directs the appointment of a neutral third party to
hear and rule on challenges to administrative traffic citations authorized by
this section. Such appointment may be renewed annually at the first meeting of
the year as all other Council appointments, or move immediately as the Council
directs, in its sole, reasonable discretion.
   (G)   The city hereby adopts the uniform administrative traffic citation
form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (H)   The city hereby authorizes city staff to create materials as necessary
to supplement the uniform administrative traffic citation to provide recipients
of an administrative traffic citation with information related, but not limited
to, the recipient’s right to challenge the citation, the city’s process for
handling challenges to administrative traffic citations, the location, dates
and times designated to hear traffic citation challenges, the process for
paying a traffic citation and the effect of an administrative traffic citation
on a recipient’s driving record.
   (I)   City staff is hereby directed to inform the Commissioner of Public
Safety of the passage of this section.
   (J)   City staff is hereby directed to separately account for administrative
traffic citations authorized by this section in city financial reports,
summaries and audits in keeping with common accounting practices and standards.
   (K)   City staff is hereby directed to designate a special fund for the
portion of administrative traffic fines that must be spent on law enforcement
purposes, in keeping with common accounting practice and standards, and to
report annually, or as otherwise directed by Council, to the City Council on
the fund.
(Res. 12-21-09, passed 12-21-2009)
CHAPTER 71:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
71.01   Presumption
   
71.02   Restrictions
   
71.03   Violation
Parking During Emergencies
   
71.15   Emergency
   
71.16   Parking during an emergency
   
71.17   Liability
   
71.18   Unlawful
Street Cleaning
   
71.30   Definitions
   
71.31   Need for cleaning
   
71.32   Duration
   
71.33   Notice
   
71.34   Liability
   
71.35   Unlawful
Truck-Tractors and Semi-Trailers in Residential Districts
   
71.50   Policy purpose
   
71.51   Definitions
   
71.52   Semi-trailers prohibited
   
71.53   Parking of truck-tractors prohibited
   
71.54   Exceptions
Snow Emergencies
   
71.60   Definitions
   
71.61   Rules and regulations
   
71.62   Unlawful acts
   
71.63   Parking vehicles to facilitate snow removal
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Truck restrictions, see §
70.04
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 71.01   PRESUMPTION.
   As to any vehicle parked in violation of this chapter, when the driver
thereof is not present, it shall be presumed that the owner parked the same, or
that the driver was acting as the agent of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 14.301)
§ 71.02   RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the specific directions
of a police officer or traffic control sign in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 10 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station;
      (9)   Along side or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (10)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (11)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street; or
      (12)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by that person into any
prohibited area or away from a curb a distance that is unlawful.
   (C)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle on a street when directed or
ordered to proceed by any police officer invested by law with authority to
direct, control or regulate traffic.
   (D)   Upon street and roadways not having a curb each vehicle stopped or
parked shall be stopped or parked parallel with and to the right of the paved
or improved or main traveled part of the street or roadway.
   (E)   Upon 1-way streets and roadways each vehicle stopped or parked shall
be stopped or parked parallel with the left hand curb with the left hand wheels
adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left hand curb of the 1-way roadway or
street, unless otherwise restricted by ordinance.
   (F)   No person in charge of any vehicle shall park or permit the vehicle to
stand upon any roadway or street for more than 24 consecutive hours.
   (G)   No person in charge of any truck or pickup with a box shall park or
permit the vehicle to be parked on Broadway Avenue in the area north of Twenty-
Eighth Street and south of Front Street at any time.
   (H)   No person in charge of any vehicle shall park or permit the vehicle to
stand upon any city free-parking lot for more than 24 consecutive hours.
   (I)   No person in charge of any truck-tractor or semi-trailer shall park or
permit the vehicle to stand upon any city free-parking lot at any time.
   (J)   The City Council may, by appropriate action taken at any regular or
special meeting, designate certain parking spaces and certain streets and
alleys or portions thereof within congested business areas as 5-minute, 10-
minute, 15-minute, 30-minute or 1-hour limited parking zones and shall mark by
appropriate signs any zones so established. The zones shall be established in
congested business areas wherever necessary for the convenience of the public
or to minimize traffic hazards and to preserve a free flow of traffic. No
person shall park a vehicle in any like limited parking zone between the hours
of 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. of any weekday, Monday through Saturday, for a
longer period than is specified in the signs posted at the zones.
   (K)   The City Council may by appropriate action taken at any regular or
special meeting reserve certain parking spaces or parking areas on streets or
portions thereof in congested business areas for pickups with boxes and shall
mark by appropriate signs any parking spaces or parking areas so reserved.
   (L)   Any police officer may remove a vehicle from a street to a garage or
other place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended and constitutes an
obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal or street improvement or
maintenance operations. The vehicle shall not be released until the fees for
towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine imposed for violation of
the code.
(Prior Code, § 14.302) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.03   VIOLATION.
   (A)   When any police officer finds a vehicle parked or standing upon a
street or avenue in violation of this chapter, the officer is hereby authorized
to require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same
to a position in compliance herewith.
   (B)   When any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any street in
violation of any parking regulation, the officer is hereby authorized to
provide for the removal of the vehicle and remove the same to a convenient
garage or other facility or place of safety; provided, that if any charge shall
be placed against the vehicle for removal or storage thereof by anyone called
upon to assist therewith the same shall be paid prior to removal from the place
of storage or safe-keeping in addition to any other penalties imposed for
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.303)
PARKING DURING EMERGENCIES
§ 71.15   EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever, in the opinion of the Public Works Director or the City
Council of Slayton, an emergency exists in the city, or in a section or
sections thereof, which create or are likely to create hazardous road
conditions impeding, or likely to impede, the free movement of fire, health,
police, emergency or other vehicular traffic, or the safety and welfare of the
community, the Public Works Director may declare an emergency to exist for a
period of up to and including 72 hours, but the emergency may be sooner
terminated if conditions permit.
   (B)   If the Public Works Director is absent from the city or is unable to
act, the emergency may be declared by the other the other authorized person(s).
   (C)   Notice of the emergency shall be given by the posting of appropriate
signs in a conspicuous place at each street and avenue included in the
emergency declaration.
   (D)   There shall be an interval of at least 6 hours between the time that
signs are first posted and the commencement of the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 14.203) (Am. Ord. 342, passed 1-22-2020)
§ 71.16   PARKING DURING AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   During a period of emergency, no vehicle shall be parked or left
standing on any portion of the posted streets from 2:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.
   (B)   Parking may be resumed on individual streets as soon as the snow has
been removed and/or all other necessary work has been completed on these
individual streets, except as may be otherwise restricted by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 14.204) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.17   LIABILITY.
   The City of Slayton shall not be responsible for any damage to the vehicles
removed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.205)
§ 71.18   UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person or corporation to cause, allow,
suffer or permit any vehicle operated by or registered in the name of that
person, firm or corporation to be parked contrary to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.206) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
STREET CLEANING
§ 71.30   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   STREET.  Any street, avenue, place, drive or any other public way in the
City of Slayton.
(Prior Code, § 14.401)
§ 71.31   NEED FOR CLEANING.
   (A)   Whenever, in the opinion of the Public Works Director of the City
Council of Slayton, the need for cleaning of streets exists in the city, or in
a section or sections thereof, because of accumulated dirt, dust, grime or
other debris, the Public Works Director may order that the streets be cleaned
by the Street Department employees of the City of Slayton.
   (B)   If the Public Works Director is absent from the city or is unable to
act, the street cleaning may be ordered by the Public Works Coordinator.
   (C)   Notice of the street cleaning shall be given by the posting of
appropriate signs in a conspicuous place at each street and avenue included in
the street cleaning. There shall be an interval of at least 6 hours between the
time that signs are first posted and the commencement of the street cleaning.
(Prior Code, § 14.402)
§ 71.32   DURATION.
   (A)   During a period of street cleaning, no vehicle shall be parked or left
standing on any portion of the posted streets during the time periods
designated on the posted signs.
   (B)   Parking may be resumed on individual streets as soon as the street
cleaning has been finished and/or all other necessary work has been completed
on these individual streets, except as may be otherwise restricted by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 14.403) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.33   NOTICE.
   (A)   Any vehicle which shall be left parked or standing in violation of
this chapter may be summarily removed without notice to the owner or operator
by officers of the Police Department of the City of Slayton, or persons
employed or designated by them, and stored in any appropriate place.
   (B)   All necessary costs and expenses of towing, removing and storage of
the vehicles shall be first paid to the Police Department or persons employed
or designated by them to receive same before release of the vehicles to the
persons claiming them shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 14.404)
§ 71.34   LIABILITY.
   The City of Slayton shall not be responsible for any damage to the vehicles
removed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.405)
§ 71.35   UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person or corporation to cause, allow,
suffer or permit any vehicle operated by or registered in the name of the
person, firm or corporation to be parked contrary to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.406) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
TRUCK-TRACTORS AND SEMI-TRAILERS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 71.50   POLICY PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the parking of certain
commercial vehicles in residential districts to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the City of Slayton, and to preserve the residential
character of the areas zoned as R-1 and R-2 Residential Districts.
(Ord. 294, passed 1-22-2002)
§ 71.51   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SEMI-TRAILER.  As defined in M.S. Chapter 168.011 Subdivision 14, as it may
be amended from time to time, as follows: a vehicle of the trailer type so
designed and used in conjunction with a truck-tractor that a considerable part
of its own weight or that of its load rests upon and is carried by the truck-
tractor and shall include a trailer drawn by a truck-tractor semi-trailer
combination.
   TRUCK-TRACTOR.  As defined in M.S. Chapter 168.011 Subdivision 12, as it may
be amended from time to time, as follows:
      (1)   A motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other
vehicles and not constructed to carry a load other than a part of the weight of
the vehicle and load drawn; and
      (2)   A motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other
vehicles used exclusively for transporting motor vehicles and capable of
carrying motor vehicles on its own structure.
(Ord. 294, passed 1-22-2002)
§ 71.52   SEMI-TRAILERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, business or other entity to park a
semi-trailer on public or private property within R-1 and R-2 Residential
Districts except as permitted under §
71.54 below.
(Ord. 294, passed 1-22-2002) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.53   PARKING OF TRUCK-TRACTORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, business or other entity to park
a truck-tractor on public property within R-1 and R-2 Residential Districts or
on private property within R-1 and R-2 Residential Districts which is not owned
or rented by the operator and/or owner of the truck-tractor, except as
permitted under §
71.54 below.
   (B)   Truck-tractors may be parked on private property owned or rented by
the operator and/or owner of the truck-trailer within R-1 and R-2 Residential
Districts so long as no part of the truck-tractor protrudes onto the boulevard
and the truck-tractor is parked only on the private property owned or rented by
the operator and/or owner.
(Ord. 294, passed 1-22-2002) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.54   EXCEPTIONS.
   Truck-tractors and/or semi-trailers which are actively engaged in loading,
unloading or providing a service; truck-tractors and or semi-trailers
associated with public or private construction and parked within 500 feet of
the construction location; and the parking of truck-tractors and/or semi-
trailers on private property which is primarily used for commercial or
industrial purposes and is a permitted pre-existing non-conforming use in the
R-1 and R-2 Residential District.
(Ord. 294, passed 1-22-2002)
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 71.60  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SNOW EMERGENCY. A condition created on city streets because of the presence
of snow, freezing rain, sleet, ice or snow drifts thereon, or other natural
phenomenon which create or are likely to create hazardous road conditions or
impede or likely to impede the free movement of fire, health, police, emergency
or other vehicular traffic when the same have been duly declared by the Mayor,
City Administrator, Public Works Director, or Chief of Police.
   SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES. The City Council may from time to time designate by
resolution certain SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES upon which no parking shall be
permitted during a snow emergency as set forth elsewhere herein. Upon
designation of SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES by the Council, a public notice shall be
published in the official newspaper identifying the routes. The notice shall be
posted in City Hall, 2424 26th Street, Slayton, Minnesota.
   STREET. Includes all streets, avenues, alleys or other public ways in the
city.
   VEHICLE. Includes all motor vehicles, trailers of all kinds and contrivances
of any kind being moved on wheels.
(Ord. 342, passed 1-22-2020)
§ 71.61  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Rules and regulations relating to snow removal shall be in accordance with
the uniform policy promulgated by the city. The regulations shall be posted in
the office of the City Administrator and further notice may otherwise be given
as the Council may direct.
(Ord. 342, passed 1-22-2020)
§ 71.62  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   During a snow emergency, it is unlawful to park or leave standing any
vehicle upon any street until the street is plowed from curb to curb (from edge
to edge on alleys) and is completely cleared of snow.
(Ord. 342, passed 1-22-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.63  PARKING VEHICLES TO FACILITATE SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked upon any street, alley, or right-of-way
outside of the designated parking lanes so as to block the removal of snow from
any street, ally, or right-of-way.
   (B)   On the day of a declared snow emergency, parking of vehicles will not
be allowed upon any street including designated parking lanes between the hours
of 12:01 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. or until the street is plowed from curb to curb
(from edge to edge on alleys) and is completely cleared of snow.
   (C)   Residents may apply for a "Snow Emergency Variance Permit". The City
Council recognizes that there are properties within the city that are without
any off-street parking where they would relocate their vehicle during a
declared emergency. Permittees will move their vehicle from one side of the
street to the other following the removal of snow from one side of the street.
Permittees who do not comply with relocating their vehicle shall be in
violation of this subsection and will be subject to penalties as described in §
71.99.
      (1)   A committee comprised of the Public Works Director, Chief of
Police, and City Clerk/Administrator shall have the sole authority to issue
variance permits. Decisions made by the committee are final and may not be
appealed to the City Council.
      (2)   There will be no cost associated with this permit application.
(Ord. 342, passed 1-22-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person who violates a section, division, paragraph or provision
of this chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prescribed or declared
unlawful and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows.
      (1)   If a specific section, division, or paragraph makes violation of
its provisions a misdemeanor, the violator shall be punished for a misdemeanor;
if a violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person property, the violator shall be
punished as for a misdemeanor when he or she is convicted of violation of this
chapter. Exclusive of violations relating to the standing or parking of an
unattended vehicle, violations of this chapter for the third time or more
within the immediately preceding 12-month period shall be punished as a
misdemeanor.
      (2)   As to any violation not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of §
71.99(A)(1), the violator shall be punished as for a petty misdemeanor.
   (B)   Violation of §§
71.60 through
71.63 shall be a petty misdemeanor and shall be grounds for any police officer
to order the removal of a vehicle as authorized by §
71.03. Beginning at 12:01 a.m. on the day of the declared snow emergency,
vehicles in violation of §§
71.60 through
71.63 may be ticketed and towed at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 342, passed 1-22-2020)
CHAPTER 72:  MUNICIPAL AIRPORT; AERIAL APPLICATION
Section
Airport
   
72.01   Purposes
   
72.02   Use
   
72.03   Permit
   
72.04   Rules; promulgation
   
72.05   Enforcement
   
72.06   Reports
   
72.07   Definition
   
72.08   Governmental functions
Aerial Application
   
72.20   Requirements
AIRPORT
§ 72.01   PURPOSES.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public welfare, serve public
interest, convenience and necessity, promote air navigation in and through this
state, increase air commerce and promote efficient, safe and economic handling
of commerce and to thus develop rules and regulations to provide for the use of
Slayton Airport, its facilities and services.
(Prior Code, § 14.501)
§ 72.02   USE.
   (A)   Private use of the Municipal Airport by the public is authorized and
encouraged so long as that use is not in conflict with the public interest.
Private use shall not require a permit.
   (B)   The use of the airport by business and business persons when the use
is not indispensably related to an aeronautical industry shall be deemed a
private use.
   (C)   Business use of the Municipal Airport for aeronautical purpose is
authorized and encouraged, but only by the holder of a City of Slayton permit
and Minnesota Department of Transportation license.
   (D)   Business use for aeronautical purposes means the use of the airport
facilities in a way so that the airport is indispensable to the users usual and
customary business operations, such as, but not necessarily limited to:
      (1)   Flight instructions;
      (2)   Aircraft sales;
      (3)   Airframe and/or power plant repair;
      (4)   Aircraft rental;
      (5)   Aircraft fuel; and
      (6)   All dispensing service, air taxi service, aerial application,
flying clubs and air freight service.
(Prior Code, § 14.502)
§ 72.03   PERMIT.
   The City Clerk/Administrator is hereby authorized to issue permits for the
business use of the Slayton Municipal Airport when the intended use conforms to
certain standards hereafter adopted by the City Council; the airport manager
shall prepare suitable forms for applications, the annual fee for permits shall
be as set out in §
33.15 for a single phase operation and as set out in §
33.15 for multiple phase operations, all permits shall be for a period of 1
year, shall not be transferable or refundable, a permit shall be canceled if
the permittee fails to conform to the standards.
(Prior Code, § 14.503)
§ 72.04   RULES; PROMULGATION.
   (A)   The Slayton City Council, pursuant to this chapter, is hereby
authorized and directed to develop minimum standards and other rules and
regulations for the use of the Slayton Municipal Airport, which minimum
standards and rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with safety, nor
with the rules and regulations of any federal or state agency having
jurisdiction with respect thereto, nor inconsistent with the procedures
prescribed or approved from time to time by the Department of Transportation,
Division of Aeronautics, or any other governmental authority having
jurisdiction over flight operations at the airport.
   (B)   These standards and rules and regulations shall include mandatory
lease clauses, minimum standards for the conduct of the type of business
specifically mentioned herein, minimum insurance requirements and any other
pertinent regulation deemed essential to the proper operation of the airport.
The City Council shall have the right, from time to time, to issue further
standards and rules and regulations which are reasonably required for the
prudent and efficient operation of the airport.
(Prior Code, § 14.504)
§ 72.05   ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Administrator shall have the control, subject to the order and
direction of the City Council over the Slayton Airport, and it shall be the
duty of the City Administrator to see that the provisions of this chapter are
enforced through proper channels.
(Prior Code, § 14.505)
§ 72.06   REPORTS.
   (A)   Each licensee shall be responsible for reporting all accidents which
occur while aircrafts are being operated in connection with his or her
operation and involving an accident which results in serious injury or death,
an accident which occurs as a result of the violation of any of the rules and
regulations of the Slayton City Council, the Department of Transportation
Division of Aeronautics, Federal Aviation Commission, or accidents which result
in damage to an aircraft in the amount exceeding $300.
   (B)   Any accident involving the handling of hazardous materials will be
reported to the City Clerk/Administrator immediately, and pursuant to Pub. Law
92-500, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., a report will be submitted to
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
(Prior Code, § 14.506)
§ 72.07   DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSONS.  Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee or similar
representative
(Prior Code, § 14.507)
§ 72.08   GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTIONS.
   Nothing contained herein shall impair the right of the city in the exercise
of its governmental functions to require the payment of licensing fees,
inspection fees or the procurement of necessary permits or licenses.
(Prior Code, § 14.508)
AERIAL APPLICATION
§ 72.20   REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Certificate. Hold a commercial aircraft operators certificate issued
by the Federal Aeronautics Administration and comply with Federal Aviation
Regulations and Department of Agriculture Regulations.
   (B)   Compliance. Comply with all rules and regulations of the Department of
Transportation, Division of Aeronautics, State of Minnesota including but not
limited to 14 MCAR 1.3024 and applicable rules and regulations of Department of
Agriculture, State of Minnesota including but not limited to 3 MCAR Chapter 16
AGR 348-367.
   (C)   Land. Leasehold shall contain adequate footage to provide hanger and
storage space.
   (D)   Personnel. At least 1 person holding current FAA commercial
certificate, properly rated for the aircraft to be used and meeting the
requirements of FAA Regulations and applicable regulations of the state and
additional persons as needed to assist in loading and servicing of the aircraft
and additional properly rated pilots as shall be necessary.
   (E)   Aircraft.
      (1)   At least 1 aircraft that will be airworthy, meeting all of the
applicable requirements of FAA regulations and applicable regulations of the
state.
      (2)   This aircraft shall be owned or leased by agreement in writing and
based on the lessee’s leasehold.
   (F)   Facilities.
      (1)   An approved, segregated chemical or hazardous material storage area
protected from public access shall be required.
      (2)   A plan, satisfactory to the City Council for the disposal of all
waste products and like tank trucks for handling of liquid spray and mixed
liquids as shall be necessary and adequate ground equipment as is necessary for
the handling and loading of dusting materials shall be approved by the Council.
   (G)   Insurance coverage:
      (1)   Aircraft liability; bodily injury: 300,000 each person; 300,000
each accident;
      (2)   Property damage: 300,000 each accident;
      (3)   Comprehensive public liability and property damage:
         (a)   Bodily injury: 300,000 each person; 300,000 each accident; and
         (b)   Property damage: 300,000 each accident.
(Prior Code, § 14.601)
CHAPTER 73:  SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Unlawful
   
73.03   Crossing streets and highways
   
73.04   City traffic regulations apply
   
73.05   Intersections
   
73.06   Persons under age
   
73.07   Restrictions
   
73.08   Required equipment
   
73.09   Locking snowmobile
   
73.10   Emergencies
   
73.11   Animals and snowmobiles
   
73.12   Signal from officer to stop
§ 73.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATE.  To ride upon and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR.  Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER.  A person, other than a lien holder having the property in or title
to snowmobile entitled to the use or possession hereof.
   PERSON.  Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its
agencies and subdivisions, and any body of persons, whether incorporated or
not.
   SNOWMOBILE.  A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain steered by wheels, skis or runners.
(Prior Code, § 14.701)
§ 73.02   UNLAWFUL.
   Except as herein specifically permitted and authorized, it is unlawful for
any person to operate a snowmobile within the limits of the City of Slayton:
   (A)   On the portion of any right-of-way of any public highway, street,
road, trail or alley used for motor vehicle travel, except the most right hand
lane (except in passing) which is used for vehicle traffic in the same
direction, other than on freeways, interstate, trunk, county state-aid or
county highways.  Snowmobiles may also be operated upon the ditch bottom where
lawfully so posted or the outside bank of trunk, county state-aid and county
highways where highways are so configured within the corporate limits;
   (B)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel;
   (C)   On boulevards within any public right-of-way;
   (D)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of the property; or
   (E)   On any other public place except as may be specifically permitted by
other provisions of the city code.
(Prior Code, § 14.702) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.03   CROSSING STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   A snowmobile may make direct crossing of a street or highway, except an
interstate highway or freeway, provided:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
   (B)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop at every intersection;
   (C)   The driver yields the right of way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
   (D)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made only at
an intersection of a street or highway with another public street or highway;
and
   (E)   If the crossing is made between the hours of 1/2 hour after sunset to
1/2 hour before sunrise or in conditions or reduced visibility, only if both
front and rear lights are on.
(Prior Code, § 14.703)
§ 73.04   CITY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLY.
   City traffic ordinances, and M.S. §§ 84.81 to 84.88, as they may be amended
from time to time, and M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to
time, shall apply to the operation of snowmobiles upon streets and highways,
except for those provisions relating to required equipment, and except those,
which by their nature, have no application.
(Prior Code, § 14.704)
§ 73.05   INTERSECTIONS.
   No snowmobile shall enter any intersection without yielding the right of way
to any vehicles or pedestrians at the intersection or so close to the
intersection as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(Prior Code, § 14.705) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.06   PERSONS UNDER AGE.
   (A)   No person under 14 years of age shall operate on streets or the
roadway surface of highway or make a direct crossing of a trunk, county state-
aid, county highway, city street as the operator of a snowmobile.
   (B)   A person 14 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age, may
operate snowmobiles on streets and highways as permitted under this chapter and
make a direct crossing on those streets and highways only if he or she has in
his or her immediate possession a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued by
the Commissioner, as provided by M.S. § 84.872 (as amended from time to time).
It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile to be
operated contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 14.706) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.07   RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the City of
Slayton:
   (A)   At any place, while under the influence of alcohol or drugs as defined
in M.S. § 84.91, as it may be amended from time to time, which is hereby
incorporated herein by reference;
   (B)   At a rate of speed greater than 10 mph;
   (C)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner or heedlessly
in disregard of the rights of safety of others, or in a manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or
property;
   (D)   During the hours from 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of any day except when
leaving the city or returning by the shortest direct route, not to exceed 2
passes;
   (E)   So as to tow any person or thing in a public street or highway except
through use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile; or
   (F)   Snowmobiles shall also be prohibited on any streets or roads where
travel is prohibited by state law and shall not be operated on any street
adjacent to public skating rink grounds, or dyke and shall also not be operated
in city parks or on streets so designated by Council resolution within this
city.
(Prior Code, § 14.707) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.08   REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile any place within the
City of Slayton unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of the snowmobile to the minimum necessary for operation. No person shall
use a muffler cutout, bypass straight pipe or similar device on a snowmobile;
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any condition of operation;
   (C)   A safety or so-called “deadman” throttle in operating condition. A
SAFETY OR “DEADMAN” THROTTLE is a device which, when pressure is removed from
the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be disengaged from the
driving track;
   (D)   (1)   When operated between the hours of 1/2 after sunset to 1/2 hour
before sunrise or at times of reduced visibility at least 1 clear lamp attached
to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions.
      (2)   The head lamp rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming
snowmobile operator. It shall also be equipped with at least 1 red tail lamp
having a minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light
plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours of
darkness under normal atmospheric conditions; and
   (E)   Reflective material at least 16 square inches on each side, forward of
the handlebars, so as to reflect light at a 90-degree angle.
(Prior Code, § 14.708) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.09   LOCKING SNOWMOBILE.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile on a public place shall lock the ignitions
remove the key and take the same with him or her.
(Prior Code, § 14.709) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.10   EMERGENCIES.
   Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this chapter, a snowmobile may be
operated on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time
when, and at locations where, snow upon the roadway renders travel by
automobile impractical.
(Prior Code, § 14.710)
§ 73.11   ANIMALS AND SNOWMOBILES.
   It is unlawful to intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal
with a snowmobile.
(Prior Code, § 14.711) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.12   SIGNAL FROM OFFICER TO STOP.
   It is unlawful for a snowmobile operator, after having received a visual or
audible signal from any law enforcement officer to come to a stop, to:
   (A)   Operate a snowmobile in willful or wanton disregard of the signal;
   (B)   Interfere with or endanger the law enforcement officer or any other
person or vehicle; or
   (C)   Increase his or her speed or attempt to flee or elude the officer.
(Prior Code, § 14.712) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 74:  GOLF CARTS AND ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Operation and requirements
   
74.03   Permits required
   
74.04   Restriction of permits
   
74.05   Application forms
   
74.06   Permit period
   
74.07   Permit fee
   
74.08   Revocation of permit
   
74.09   Insurance required
   
74.10   Where operation is permitted
   
74.11   Times of operation
   
74.12   Speed limit
   
74.13   Slow-moving vehicle emblem and flag
   
74.14   Application of traffic laws
   
74.15   Non-application of certain laws
   
74.16   Right to appeal
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE.  Either a Class 1 ATV (under 1,000 pounds) or Class 2
ATV (1,000 to 1,800 pounds).
   DRIVER.  The person driving and having physical control over the motorized
golf cart, all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck and being the licensee.
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.  A self-balancing device with
two non-tandem wheels, designed to transport not more than one person, and
operated by an electric propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of the
device to 15 miles per hour.
   MEDIUM SPEED ELECTRIC VEHICLE.  An electrically powered four-wheeled motor
vehicle, equipped with a roll cage or crushproof body design, that can attain a
maximum speed of 35 miles per hour on a paved level surface, is fully enclosed
and has at least one door for entry, has a wheelbase of  40 inches or greater
and a wheel diameter of 10 inches or greater, and except with respect to
maximum speed, otherwise meets or exceeds regulations in the Code of Federal
Regulations, title 49, section 571.500, and successor requirements.
   MINI-TRUCK.  As defined in M.S. § 169.01, Subdivision 40(a), a motor vehicle
that has four wheels; is propelled by an electric motor with a rated power of
7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion engine with a piston displacement
capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less; has a total dry weight of 900 to
2,200 pounds; contains an enclosed cabin and a seat for the vehicle operator;
commonly resembles a pickup truck or van, including a cargo area or bed located
at the rear of the vehicle; and was not originally manufactured to meet federal
motor vehicle safety standards required of motor vehicles in the Code of
Federal Regulations, title 49, sections 571.101 to 571.404, and successor
requirements.  A MINI-TRUCK does not include: a neighborhood electric vehicle
or a medium speed electric vehicle as defined by §
73.11; or a motor vehicle that meets or exceeds the regulations in the Code of
Federal Regulations, title 49, section 571.500, as it may be amended from time
to time.
   MOTORIZED GOLF CART.  Any passenger conveyance being driven with four wheels
with four low-pressure tires that is limited in engine displacement of less
than 800 cubic centimeters and total dry with less than 800 pounds.
   NEIGHBORHOOD ELECTRIC VEHICLE.  An electrically powered motor vehicle that
has four wheels, and has a speed attainable in one mile of at least 20 miles
per hour, but not more than 25 miles per hour on a paved level surface.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 74.02   OPERATION AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Special vehicles; motorized golf carts, Class 1 and 2 all-terrain
vehicles, and mini-trucks.
      (1)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart, all-terrain vehicle,
or mini-truck on streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public property without
obtaining a permit as provided herein.
      (2)   The number of occupants on the golf cart, all-terrain vehicle, or
mini-truck may not exceed the design occupant load.
   (B)   Mini-truck.  A mini-truck may be operated under permit on designated
roadways if it is equipped with all of the following:
      (1)   At least two headlamps;
      (2)   At least two tail lamps;
      (3)   Front and rear turn-signal lamps;
      (4)   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver’s side of the vehicle;
      (5)   A windshield;
      (6)   A seatbelt for the driver and front passenger;
      (7)   A parking brake.
   (C)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices.  Except as otherwise
provided by law, a person operating an electric personal assistive mobility
device has the rights and responsibilities of a pedestrian.
      (1)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may be operated on a
bicycle path.
      (2)   No person may operate an electric personal assistive mobility
device on a roadway, sidewalk, or bicycle path at a rate of speed that is not
reasonable and prudent under the conditions.  Every person operating an
electric personal assistive mobility device on a roadway, sidewalk, or bicycle
path is responsible for becoming and remaining aware of the actual and
potential hazards then existing on the roadway or sidewalk and must use due
care in operating the device.
      (3)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may be operated on a
roadway only under the following circumstances:
         (a)   While making a direct crossing of a roadway in a marked or
unmarked crosswalk.
         (b)   Where no sidewalk is available.
         (c)   Where a sidewalk is so obstructed as to prevent safe use.
         (d)   When so directed by a traffic control device or by a peace
officer.
         (e)   Temporarily in order to gain access to a motor vehicle.
         (f)   As provided in division (C)(7) below by Council resolution.
      (4)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be operated
at any time on a roadway which has a speed limit of more than 30 miles per hour
except to make a direct crossing of the roadway in a marked crosswalk.
      (5)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be operated
at any time while carrying more than one person.
      (6)   A person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device
on a sidewalk must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians at all times. A person
operating an electric personal assistive mobility device on a bicycle path must
yield the right-of-way to bicycles at all times.
      (7)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be operated
unless the device bears reflectorized material on the front, back, and wheels,
visible at night from 600 feet when illuminated by the lower beams of headlamps
of a motor vehicle.
   (D)   Medium-speed electric vehicles and neighborhood electric vehicles.
      (1)   Operation of neighborhood electric vehicles on city streets is
prohibited except as provided in division (D)(2) below.
      (2)   A neighborhood electric vehicle or a medium-speed electric vehicle
may be operated on public streets and highways only if it meets all equipment
and vehicle safety requirements in Code of Federal Regulations, title 49,
section 571.500, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03   PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart, all-terrain vehicle,
mini-truck, medium-speed electric vehicles or neighborhood electric vehicles on
streets and alleys within the city limits or under the jurisdiction of the City
of Slayton without first obtaining a written permit from the city, except no
permits will be required for council approved city celebrations, parades or
county fair. Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by
the city and shall contain all of the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant.
      (2)   Model name, make, and year and number of the motorized golf cart,
all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck.
      (3)   Current valid driver’s license.
      (4)   Other information as the city may require.
   (B)   No permit shall be granted or renewed unless the following conditions
are met:
      (1)   Motorized golf carts, all-terrain vehicles, and mini-trucks,
medium-speed electric vehicles or neighborhood electric are permitted to
operate only on city streets, not state or federal highways, except to cross at
designated intersections.
      (2)   Motorized golf carts, all-terrain vehicles, and mini-trucks,
electric vehicles and medium-speed electric vehicles shall be equipped with a
rear-view mirror to provide the driver with adequate vision from behind as
required by M.S. § 169.70.
      (3)   Authorized city staff may operate city owned motorized golf carts,
mini-trucks without obtaining a permit within the city on city streets,
sidewalks, trails, rights-of-way, and public property when conducting city
business.   
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04   RESTRICTION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The applicant may be required to submit a certificate signed by a
physician that the applicant is able to safely operate a motorized golf cart or
all-terrain vehicle on the roadways designated.
   (B)   The applicant has not had his or her driver's license revoked as the
result of criminal proceedings.
   (C)   The vehicle to be permitted must pass a safety inspection to assure
that all the requirements in this Code have been met and to assure safe
operation.  This inspection must be conducted prior to the approval of the
permit and must be conducted by the Chief of Police or designated Police
Officer.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 74.05   APPLICATION FORMS.
   Applications for a permit to operate a motorized golf cart or 4-wheel all-
terrain vehicle shall be made to the City Clerk/Administrator on forms
furnished by the city.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 74.06   PERMIT PERIOD.
   Permits shall be issued for periods of 1 calendar year commencing on January
1 and ending on December 31 of each year, and may be annually renewed.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; am. Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 74.07   PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   A permit fee, as set out in §
33.15, shall be charged and will be required to be paid when an application for
a permit is submitted to the City Clerk/Administrator.
   (B)   The permit fee will not be prorated if issued after January 1 during
any calendar year.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord, 333, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 74.08   REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any of the provisions of this
section or M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to time, or if
there is evidence that the permit holder cannot safely operate the motorized
golf cart, all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck on the designated roadways.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 74.09   INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with the
provisions of Minnesota Statutes concerning insurance coverage for the
motorized golf carts, all-terrain vehicles, and mini-trucks, electric vehicles
and medium-speed electric vehicles
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 74.10   WHERE OPERATION IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   Permittees will be allowed to operate their motorized golf carts, all-
terrain vehicles, and mini-trucks, electric vehicles and medium-speed electric
vehicles on all streets and alleys within the city limits or under the
jurisdiction of the City of Slayton except:
      (1)   Broadway Avenue from 23rd Street to 28th Street;
      (2)   Any State or US Highway;
      (3)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel;
      (4)   On boulevards within any public right-a-way;
      (5)   In any designated city park or ball field;
      (6)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of the property;
      (7)   On any other public place except as may be specifically permitted
by other provision of the City Code.
   (B)   The operator of a motorized golf carts, all-terrain vehicles, and
mini-trucks, electric vehicles and medium-speed electric vehicles may cross any
street or highway intersecting a designated roadway. 
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 74.11   TIMES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Motorized golf carts, all-terrain vehicles, and mini-trucks, electric
vehicles and medium-speed electric vehicles may only be operated on designated
roadways from sunrise to sunset unless the vehicle is equipped with operational
headlights, taillights, break lights and turn signals. They shall not be
operated in inclement weather or when visibility is impaired by weather, smoke,
fog or other conditions, or at any time when there is insufficient light to
clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; am. Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.12   SPEED LIMIT.
   The maximum speed at which a motorized golf carts, all-terrain vehicles, and
mini-trucks, electric vehicles and medium-speed electric vehicles may be
operated as permitted under the provisions of this chapter is 15 mph.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 74.13   SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM AND FLAG.
   Motorized golf carts, all-terrain vehicles, and mini-trucks, electric
vehicles and medium-speed electric vehicles shall display the slow-moving
vehicle emblem provided for in M.S. § 169.045, as it may be amended from time
to time, as well as an extended fluorescent colored flag that is mounted in
such a manner as to increase the vehicle’s visibility when operated on
designated roadways.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord 333, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 74.14   APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person operating a motorized golf carts, all-terrain vehicles, and
mini-trucks, electric vehicles and medium-speed electric vehicles under permit
on designated roadways has all the rights and duties applicable to the driver
of any other vehicle under the provisions of M.S. Chaper169, as it may be
amended from time to time, except when these provisions cannot reasonably be
applied to motorized golf carts or mini-trucks and except as otherwise
specifically provided in M.S. § 169.045, subdivision (7), as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 74.15   NON-APPLICATION OF CERTAIN LAWS.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to time,
relating to equipment on vehicles, except for the requirements of M.S. §
169.70, as it may be amended from time to time, are not applicable to motorized
golf carts or 4-wheel all terrain vehicles operated under permits issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 74.16   RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   If an application for a permit is denied by the City Clerk/
Administrator and/or the Chief of Police the party applying for the permit
shall have the right to appeal the denial to the City Council by filing a
written request for a hearing before the City Council at the Clerk/
Administrator’s office within 5 days after the party’s application for a permit
has been denied.
   (B)   The hearing before the City Council will be held in the City Council
chambers within 20 days after the written appeal has been filed and the
appealing party shall receive at least 7-days’ notice of the date and time of
the hearing.  The decision the City Council makes by majority vote after the
hearing has been held will be final and will be made immediately following the
hearing.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 74.99  PENALTY
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this section
shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall be subject to the penalties as
set forth in §
10.99 of this Code.
(Ord. 333, passed 7-6-2011)
CHAPTER 75:  BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
75.01   Definition
   
75.02   Rules for operation
   
75.03   Equipment
   
75.04   Earphones and headphones prohibited
Skateboards, Scooters, Roller Skates and the Like
   
75.15   Definitions
   
75.16   Restrictions on use
   
75.17   Prohibited acts
   
75.18   Bicycle rules of the road
   
75.19   Impoundment
Cross-references:
   Gold carts and all terrain vehicles, see
Ch. 74
   Snowmobiles, see
Ch. 73
   Traffic; vehicle operation, see
Ch. 70
BICYCLES
§ 75.01   DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE.  Any device propelled by human power, upon which any person may
ride having 2 tandem wheels, and any device generally recognized as a bicycle
equipped with front or 2 rear tires.
(Prior Code, § 14.901)
§ 75.02   RULES FOR OPERATION.
   The following rules of operation shall be observed at all times:
   (A)   Every person riding a bicycle upon a public roadway shall be granted
all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver
of a vehicle by state law and traffic regulations of this city except as to
those regulations which by their nature have no application;
   (B)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto;
   (C)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at 1 time than the
number for which it is designated and equipped;
   (D)   No person riding upon any bicycle shall attach it or themselves to any
vehicle upon a roadway;
   (E)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a public roadway shall ride as
near to the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction;
   (F)   Persons riding a bicycle upon a public roadway shall not ride more
than 2 abreast, except on paths or roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles;
   (G)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use that path and not use the roadway;
   (H)   Bicycles may be walked on the sidewalk within the business district
and must observe the rights and duties of a pedestrian;
   (I)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk in a
residential district, the person shall yield right of way to any pedestrian,
and shall give audible sign before overtaking any pedestrian; and
   (J)   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or
article which prevents the driver from keeping at least 1 hand on the
handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 14.902) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 75.03   EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector, of a type approved by the
Commissioner of Highways, on the rear, which is visible from a distance of 100
feet when directly in front of lawful beams.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, pavement.
(Prior Code, § 14.903) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 75.04   EARPHONES AND HEADPHONES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No persons while riding a bicycle in a public right-of-way, shall wear
headphones or earphones which may be used in both ears simultaneously for
purposes of receiving or listening to broadcasts or reproductions from radios,
tape decks or other sound producing or transmitting devices.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section the term PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall
include, without limitation, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, footpaths
and parking lots commonly open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 14.904) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
SKATEBOARDS, SCOOTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE
§ 75.15   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ROLLER SKATES or INLINE SKATES.  A shoe with wheels attached or a device
with wheels attached or a device with wheels which is designed to be attached
to a shoe.
   SKATEBOARD or SCOOTER.  A wheeled, self-propelled device designed to
transport a rider in a standing position, which device is not otherwise
attached to a rider’s feet or shoes.
(Prior Code, § 14.1201)
§ 75.16   RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a skateboard, scooter, roller
skates or inline skates within the City of Slayton:
   (A)   On Broadway Avenue from the north curb of Twentieth Street to the
south curb of Twenty-Eighth Street, including sidewalks between the hours of 7:
00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.; or
   (B)   At all times on Maple Avenue from the north curb of Twentieth Street
to the south curb of Thirtieth Street.
(Prior Code, § 14.1202) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 75.17   PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person riding a skateboard, scooter, roller
skates or inline skates within the City of Slayton to:
   (A)   Be pushed, pulled or in any manner be propelled by any motorized
vehicle or by a person on a bicycle; or
   (B)   Ride in a careless, reckless or negligent manner endangering or likely
to endanger the safety of themselves or other persons or likely to cause damage
to property.
(Prior Code, § 14.1203) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 75.18   BICYCLE RULES OF THE ROAD.
   Any person who engages in the use of skateboards, scooters, roller skates or
inline skates on streets within the City of Slayton shall observe and obey the
same rules or the road as required of bicycles under the provisions of M.S. §
169.222 (as amended from time to time).
(Prior Code, § 14.1204)
§ 75.19   IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any police officer who observes a violation of this chapter is hereby
authorized to impound the skateboard, scooter, roller skates or inline skates
and to hold the same at the Police Department of the City of Slayton.
   (B)   The skateboard, scooter, roller skates or inline skates shall be
immediately released to a custodial parent or legal guardian of any operator
under the age of 18 years, and shall be released to any operator 18 years of
age or over following the expiration of a 24-hour impoundment period.
(Prior Code, § 14.1205)
CHAPTER 76:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits in school zones
   
II.   U-turns prohibited
SCHEDULE I.   SPEED LIMITS IN SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   School speed limit zones are established on the following streets.
   (B)   Upon erection of appropriate signs designating the beginning and
ending of the speed limit zones, no person shall drive a vehicle within the
zones designated by this section in excess of 15 mph when children are present,
going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours or during school
recess periods.
 
Street               Location
King Avenue          Between Twenty-Ninth and Twenty-Eighth Streets
Twenty-Sixth Street  From Ironwood Avenue west
Twenty-Eighth Street Between Broadway Avenue and King Avenue
Twenty-Ninth Street  Between King and Broadway
 
(Prior Code, § 14.104) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
SCHEDULE II.   U-TURNS PROHIBITED.
Street Avenue
Street                Avenue
Twentieth Street      Broadway Avenue
Twenty-First Street   Broadway Avenue
Twenty-Second Street  Broadway Avenue
Twenty-Third Street   Broadway Avenue
Twenty-Fourth Street  Broadway Avenue
Twenty-Fifth Street   Broadway Avenue
Twenty-Sixth Street   Broadway Avenue
Twenty-Seventh Street Broadway Avenue
 
   No vehicle shall be turned around by making a U-turn at the intersections or
between the intersections of the above streets and avenues in the City of
Slayton, Minnesota.
(Prior Code, § 14.1002)
CHAPTER 77:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Diagonal to curb
   
II.   Parallel to curb
SCHEDULE I.   DIAGONAL TO CURB.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked on the following  shall be parked
diagonally within the lines painted on the surface of Broadway Avenue, and the
right front wheel of the vehicle shall be within 12 inches of the curb.
 
Side      Street          Location
East side Broadway Avenue -
West side Broadway Avenue North of Twenty-Eighth Street and south of Front
                          Street
 
   (B)   Every vehicle stopped or parked in the center parking area of Broadway
Avenue in the area north of Twenty-Eighth Street and south of Front Street
shall be parked diagonally within the lines painted on the surface of Broadway
Avenue.
(Prior Code, § 14.302(4))
   (C)   When any police officer finds a vehicle parked or standing upon a
street or avenue in violation of this schedule, that officer is hereby
authorized to require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to
move the same to a position in compliance herewith.  When any police officer
finds a vehicle unattended upon any street in violation of any parking
regulation, the officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of the
vehicle and remove the same to a convenient garage or other facility or place
of safety; provided, that if any charge shall be placed against the vehicle for
removal or storage thereof by anyone called upon to assist therewith the same
shall be paid prior to removal from the place of storage or safe-keeping in
addition to any other penalties imposed for violation of the provisions of this
schedule.
(Prior Code, § 14.303) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
SCHEDULE II.   PARALLEL TO CURB.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a 2-way roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and within 12 inches of the right hand curb, except in
the below.
(Prior Code, § 14.302(5))
 
Area  Street
North Twenty-Eighth Street
South Front Street on Broadway Avenue
 
   (B)   When any police officer finds a vehicle parked or standing upon a
street or avenue in violation of this schedule, that officer is hereby
authorized to require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to
move the same to a position in compliance herewith.  When any police officer
finds a vehicle unattended upon any street in violation of any parking
regulation, the officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of the
vehicle and remove the same to a convenient garage or other facility or place
of safety; provided, that if any charge shall be placed against the vehicle for
removal or storage thereof by anyone called upon to assist therewith the same
shall be paid prior to removal from the place of storage or safe-keeping in
addition to any other penalties imposed for violation of the provisions of this
schedule.
(Prior Code, § 14.303) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   
92.   SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
   
93.   ENVIRONMENT
   
94.   FAIR HOUSING
   
95.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Dogs and cats
   
90.03   Non-domestic animals
   
90.04   Farm animals
   
90.05   Impounding
   
90.06   Kennels
   
90.07   Nuisances
   
90.08   Seizure of animals
   
90.09   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city
   
90.10   Diseased animals
   
90.11   Dangerous animals
   
90.12   Dangerous animal requirements
   
90.13   Basic care
   
90.14   Breeding moratorium
   
90.15   Enforcing officer
   
90.16   Pound
   
90.17   Interference with officers
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01   DEFINITIONS. 
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL.  Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom. 
Animals shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS.  Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets.  Unless otherwise defined, domestic animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
      (2)    FARM ANIMALS.  Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting.  Unless otherwise defined, farm
animals shall include members of the equine family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese),
swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.  Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of 
people.  Unless otherwise defined, non-domestic animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE.  Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
   CAT.  Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DOG.  Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER.  Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT.  A permit issued by the Animal Control Officer or other
person in charge of the pound for the release of any animal that has been taken
to the pound.  A release permit may be obtained upon payment of a fee to the
City Clerk in accordance with the regular license requirement if the animal is
unlicensed, payment of a release fee, and any maintenance costs incurred in
capturing and impounding the animal.  The release fee shall be as established
in §
33.15, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 90.02   DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited.  It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A
person, who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a
responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and direction of a
responsible person, so as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash,
shall be permitted in streets or on public land unless the city has posted an
area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats Prohibited.”
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   All dogs over the age of six months kept, harbored, or maintained
by their owners in the city, shall be licensed and registered with the city.
Dog licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk upon payment of the license fee
as established by §
33.15, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time. The owner shall
state, at the time application is made for the license and upon forms provided,
his or her name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog
owned or kept by him or her. No license shall be granted for a dog that has not
been vaccinated against distemper and rabies, as evidenced by a certificate by
a veterinarian qualified to practice in the state in which the dog is
vaccinated.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog subject to this section
to pay to the City Clerk the license fee established in the §
33.15 , as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Upon payment of the license fee as established by §
33.15 , as it may be amended from time to time, the Clerk shall issue to the
owner a license certificate and metallic tag for each dog licensed. The tag
shall have stamped on it the year for which it is issued and the number
corresponding with the number on the certificate. Every owner shall be required
to provide each dog with a collar to which the license tag must be affixed, and
shall see that the collar and tag are constantly worn. In case a dog tag is
lost or destroyed, a duplicate shall be issued by the City Clerk.  A charge
shall be made for each duplicate tag in an amount established in §
33.15 , as it may be amended from time to time.  Dog tags shall not be
transferable from one dog to another and no refunds shall be made on any dog
license fee or tag because of death of a dog or the owner's leaving the city
before the expiration of the license period.
      (4)   The licensing provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to
dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the city, nor to dogs
brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog show.  If the
animal owned is a service animal which is capable of being properly identified
as from a recognized school for seeing eye, hearing ear, service or guide
animals, and the owner is a blind or deaf person, or a person with physical or
sensory disabilities, then no license shall be required.
      (5)   The funds received by the City Clerk from all dog licenses and
metallic tags fees as established by §
33.15 , as that ordinance may be amended from time to time, shall first be used
to defray any costs incidental to the enforcement of this chapter; including,
but not restricted to, the costs of licenses, metallic tags, and impounding and
maintenance of the dogs.
   (C)   Cats.  Cats shall be included as controlled by this division  insofar
as running-at-large, pickup, impounding, boarding, licensing and proof of anti-
rabies vaccine is concerned. All other provisions of this section shall also
apply to cats unless otherwise provided. It is unlawful for any household
within city limits to keep and/or care for more than 3 cats, except that a
fresh litter of animals may be kept for a period of 6 months.
   (D)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained, or transported within
the city shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed
veterinarian for:
         (a)   Rabies - with a live modified vaccine; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner's name and address, the animal's name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian's signature. Upon demand made by the City Clerk, the Animal
Control Officer or a police officer, the owner shall present for examination
the required certificate(s) of vaccination for the animal(s). In cases where
certificates are not presented, the owner or keeper of the animal(s) shall have
seven days in which to present the certificate(s) to the City Clerk or officer.
Failure to do so shall be deemed a violation of this section.
(Am. Ord. 339, passed 10-16-2017) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.03   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 
   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for
sale, any non-domestic animal within the city.  Any owner of a non-domestic
animal at the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to
remove the animal from the city after which time the city may impound the
animal as provided for in this section.  An exception shall be made to this
prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.04   FARM ANIMALS. 
   (A)   Farm animals shall only be kept in an agricultural district of the
city, or on a residential lot of at least 10 acres provided that no animal
shelter shall be within 300 feet of an adjoining piece of property. 
   (B)   An exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought
into the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific
research laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
   (C)   An exception shall be made to this section for chickens kept in the
city in accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   No person shall keep more than a total of 5 chickens per recorded
lot in any zoning district outside the agricultural zone. Roosters are not
allowed within city limits;
      (2)   No chicken coop, run or other structure where chickens are kept
shall be maintained closer than 35 feet from any residence, other than the
residence occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such
chickens are kept; and
      (3)   Persons wishing to keep chickens shall submit a keeping of chickens
permit application, which shall be submitted annually to City Hall.
(Am. Ord. 335, passed 6-15-2015)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05   IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large.  Any unlicensed animal running at large is hereby
declared a public nuisance.  Any Animal Control Officer or police officer may
impound any dog or other animal found unlicensed or any animal found running at
large and shall give notice of the impounding to the owner of the dog or other
animal, if known.  The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter
the property of the owner of an animal found running at large or the owner of
an unlicensed animal unless the officer has first obtained the permission of
the owner to do so or has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal.  In case the owner is unknown, the
officer shall post notice at the city office that if the dog or other animal 
is not claimed within the time specified in division (C) of this section, it
will be sold or otherwise disposed of. Except as otherwise provided in this
section, it shall be unlawful to kill, destroy, or otherwise cause injury to
any animal, including dogs and cats running at large.
   (B)   Biting animals.    Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the city pound for a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the
owner.  The animal may be released at the end of the time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. 
However, if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of
notice of need for the confinement by the officer to voluntarily and
immediately confine the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary
hospital of the owner's choosing, not outside of the county in which this city
is located, and provide immediate proof of confinement in the manner as may be
required, the owner may do so.  If, however, the animal has been inoculated
with a live modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination
by a certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner's property.
   (C)   Reclaiming.  All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with
humane treatment and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five
regular business days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under
§
90.11 in which case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or the
times specified in §
90.11, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit as
established by §
33.15, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time;
      (2)    Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee as
established by §
33.15, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time, and valid
certificate of vaccination for rabies and distemper shots is required.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals.  At the expiration of the times established in
division (C) of this section, if the animal has not been reclaimed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the officer appointed to
enforce this section may let any person claim the animal by complying with all
provisions in this section, or the officer may sell the animal to the
University of Minnesota, or cause the animal to be destroyed in a proper and
humane manner and shall properly dispose of the remains thereof. Any money
collected under this section shall be payable to the City Clerk.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.06   KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition of kennel.
      (1)   The keeping of 3 to 12 dogs on the same premises, whether owned by
the same person or not and for whatever purpose, shall constitute a KENNEL;
except that a fresh litter of puppies may be kept for a period of 3 months
before the keeping shall be deemed a KENNEL.
      (2)   In order to maintain a kennel within the city limits, a resident of
the premises must first obtain a permit from the city and pay an annual permit
fee set by ordinance of the city. As a condition of maintaining a kennel, the
city is authorized to biannually inspect the premises to monitor compliance
with this chapter and to keep track of the number and condition of the dogs.
None of the dogs in a kennel can be a dangerous dog as defined under M.S. §
347.50, as it may be amended from time to time, and/or §
90.11, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Kennel as a nuisance.  Because the keeping of more than 12 dogs on the
same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons in the
area by way of smell, noise, hazard and general aesthetic depreciation, the
keeping of more than 12 dogs on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. A violation of this section is deemed a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Removal of dogs constituting a violation.  Upon violation of this
section, the city may remove enough dogs so that the premises are no longer a
kennel. The owner of the dog(s) removed by the city shall be liable for the
costs incurred by the city for removing the dog(s).
   (D)   Location. A kennel may not be located on the front lot (street side)
portion of any property within the city.
   (E)   Kennel fees.  A permit fee, as set out in §
33.15, shall be charged and will be required to be paid when an application for
a kennel license is submitted to the City Clerk/Administrator. All kennel fees
are due January 1 of each year. This fee is in lieu of the separate license
requirement fee for each dog.
(Ord. 320, passed 2-2-2009) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.07   NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking.  It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries.  Habitual barking shall be
defined as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less
than one minute of interruption.  The barking must also be audible off of the
owner's or caretaker's premises.
   (B)   Damage to property.  It shall be unlawful for any person's dog or
other animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the
owner has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter.  The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Warrant required.  The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall
not enter the property of the owner of an animal described in this section
unless the officer has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or
has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided
for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal.
   (E)   Other.  Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment as provided in §
90.05.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.08   SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any police officer or Animal Control Officer may enter upon private property
and seize any animal with the permission of the owner of the property, if that
person is also the owner of the animal, provided that the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Animal Control Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
90.07(A); the criteria for cruelty set out in §
90.13; or the criteria for an at large animal set out in §
90.01;
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one previous
complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that the
animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
animal and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed or
have been ignored;
   (E)   The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter the
property of the owner of an animal described in this section unless the officer
has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or has obtained a
warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal.  If the officer has the permission
of the owner, a property manager, landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized
person to enter the property or has obtained a pass key from a property
manager, landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized person to have that key shall
not be considered unauthorized entry, and a warrant to search for and seize the
animal need not be obtained; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the animal is not possible.
§ 90.09   ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or the Animal Control Officer or
police officer, an animal presents an immediate danger to the health and safety
of any person, or the animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the
animal is in the process of attacking any person, the person or officer may
destroy the animal in a proper and humane manner whether or not the animal is
on the property of its owner.  Otherwise, the person or officer may apprehend
the animal and deliver it to the pound for confinement under §
90.05. If the animal is destroyed, the owner or keeper of the animal destroyed
shall be liable to the city for the cost of maintaining and disposing of the
animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examination. If the animal is found
not to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to
the owner or keeper in accordance with §
90.05(C).
§ 90.10   DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large.  No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the city, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal is not required.
   (B)   Confinement.  Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person, the Animal Control Officer or a police
officer. The officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If
the animal is found to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the
health and safety of the city, the officer shall cause the animal to be
painlessly killed and shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or
keeper of the animal killed under this section shall be liable to the city for
the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any
veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release.  If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.11   DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Attack by an animal.  It shall be unlawful for any person's animal to
inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to an attack
by a dog under the control of an on-duty law enforcement officer or to an
attack upon an uninvited intruder who has entered the owner’s home with
criminal intent.
   (B)   Destruction of dangerous animal.  The Animal Control Officer shall
have the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance
with the terms established by this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  An animal which has:
         (a)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public or
private property;
         (b)   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
         (d)   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  An animal which has:
         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely locked
pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to provide
protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure
in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be 1-1/4-inch or larger steel pipe buried in
the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the
sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      (4)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic
animal as stated in division (C)(2). When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the potentially
dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially
dangerous.
   (E)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
      (1)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (C)
(1).
      (2)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1).
   (F)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
   (G)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner:  The Animal Control
Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain an
order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal from
a court of competent jurisdiction, unless the animal is already in custody or
the owner consents to the seizure and destruction of the animal.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City Clerk’s
office shall be admissible for consideration by the Animal Control Officer
without further foundation. After considering all evidence pertaining to the
temperament of the animal, the City Council shall make an order as it deems
proper. The City Council may order that the Animal Control Officer take the
animal into custody for destruction, if the animal is not currently in custody.
If the animal is ordered into custody for destruction, the owner shall
immediately make the animal available to the Animal Control Officer.  If the
owner does not immediately make the animal available, the Animal Control
Officer shall obtain an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the
destruction of the animal from a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   No person  shall harbor an animal after it has been found by to be
dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (H)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Animal Control Officer is
witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer
may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an
end and prevent further injury to the victim.
   (I)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in
writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner's name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.12   DANGEROUS ANIMAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of an
animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
      (1)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in §
90.11(C)(3);
      (2)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property as specified in M.S. § 347.51 as may be
amended from time to time;
      (3)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
      (4)   If the animal is a dog and is outside the proper enclosure, the dog
must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed
six feet in length) and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of
age or older. The muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the dog from biting
any person or animal, but will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with
its vision or respiration;
      (5)   If the animal is a dog, it must have an easily identifiable,
standardized tag identifying the dog as dangerous affixed to its collar at all
times as specified in M.S. § 347.51 as it may be amended from time to time, and
shall have a microchip implant as provided by M.S. § 347.151, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (6)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Officer shall be
registered with the county in which this city is located within 14 days after
the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof thereof to the
Animal Control Officer.
      (7)   If the animal is a dog, the dog must be licensed and up to date on
rabies vaccination. If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date
with rabies vaccination.
   (B)   Seizure. As authorized by M.S. § 347.54, as it may be amended from
time to time, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any dangerous
animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements within 14 days
after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is dangerous.
Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and petition
upon the city and filing it with the district court.
   (C)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under §
90.12(B),  may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control that each
of the requirements under §
90.12(B), is fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this section within 14
days may be disposed of as provided under §
90.11(F), and the owner is liable to the city for costs incurred in confining
and impounding the animal.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under §
90.11 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by animal control. The
owner may request a hearing as defined in §
90.11(G). If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the Animal Control Officer shall order the animal destroyed
in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of confining
the animal. If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for
which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal under the
provisions of §
90.12(C). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days after
the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the animal may
be disposed of as provided under §
90.11(F) and the owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred
in confining, impounding and disposing of the animal.
§ 90.13   BASIC CARE.
   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating their pet in a humane manner will be subject to the
penalties provided in this section.
§ 90.14   BREEDING MORATORIUM.
   Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in a manner that it cannot come in contact with another dog or
cat except for planned breeding.  Upon capture and failure to reclaim the
animal, every dog or cat shall be neutered or spayed prior to being transferred
to a new owner.
§ 90.15   ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Council is hereby authorized to appoint an animal control officer(s) to
enforce the provisions of this section. In the officer's duty of enforcing the
provisions of this section, he or she may from time to time, with the consent
of the City Council, designate assistants.
§ 90.16   POUND.
   Every year the Council shall designate an official pound to which animals
found in violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe treatment, and if
necessary, for destruction.
§ 90.17   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs, cats or other animals and
convey them to the pound while engaged in that operation.  Nor shall any
unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or
attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance
with this chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder the
officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.99    PENALTY.
   (A)   Separate offenses.  Each day a violation of this chapter is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable under this section.
   (B)   Misdemeanor.  Unless otherwise provided, violation of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99.
   (C)   Petty misdemeanor.  Violations of §§
90.02,
90.04(C),
90.07,
90.13 and
90.14 are petty misdemeanors punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Am. Ord. 335, passed 6-15-2015)
CHAPTER 91:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Volunteer Fire Department
   
91.01   General provisions
   
91.02   Election; appointment
   
91.03   Duties of the Fire Marshal
   
91.04   Duties of the Chief
   
91.05   Records
   
91.06   Practice drills
   
91.07   Assistant Chief
   
91.08   Secretary
   
91.09   Training officers
   
91.10   Firefighter applicants
   
91.11   Compensation
   
91.12   Minimum pay
   
91.13   Present members
   
91.14   Relief association
   
91.15   Interference with Department
Public Use of the Slayton Burn Site
   
91.30   Rules for use
Fire Protection Areas
   
91.45   By contract
   
91.46   Fees
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 91.01   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby continued in this City of Slayton, a Volunteer Fire
Department.
   (B)   This Volunteer Fire Department shall consist of a Chief, a First
Assistant Chief, a Second Assistant Chief, a Fire Marshal, and not less than 20
nor more than 30 firefighters including the Chief and Assistant Chiefs.
(Prior Code, § 8.101)
§ 91.02   ELECTION; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department and the Assistant Chiefs shall be
elected annually by the members of the Department subject to confirmation by
the Council. The Chief of the Department or a member of the Department
appointed by the Chief shall be the Fire Marshal, subject to approval of the
Council by resolution. Each shall hold office for 1 year and until a successor
has been duly elected, except that each may be removed by the Council for cause
and after a public hearing.
   (B)   Application and selection of prospective firefighters shall be by
sponsor, firefighter recommendation or by city legal paper advertisement. Each
applicant must reside within 5 minutes of the fire hall obeying all traffic
laws. Each applicant must pass a physical examination by a doctor appointed by
the Department. The City of Slayton shall pay for the physical.
   (C)   A nominating committee or screening committee will consist of 6
members which shall include the Chief, First and Second Assistant Chiefs and 3
elected regular Department members. This 6-member screening committee shall
interview each prospective member either jointly or individually at its
discretion. The 6-member committee shall vote on the applicant’s
qualifications. Three dissenting votes shall disallow the applicant.
   (D)   Prospective members found eligible for membership by the 6-member
screening committee shall be presented at the regular December meeting. A vote
of 2/3 majority of those present is required for probationary membership.
   (E)   The probationary member shall serve a term of 1 year on this basis
whereupon the probationary member is again votes upon at the succeeding regular
January meeting. The probationary member must again receive a 2/3 majority vote
for regular membership. It shall be noted that each eligible prospective member
shall be voted on separately and each prospective member must receive a 2/
3 majority of the regular members present.
   (F)   A vote shall then be held. The Chief shall not vote except in the case
of a tie vote. In case of a tie, the Chief shall present his or her vote. A
probationary member does not vote, each applicant will be notified as soon as
possible after the election as to whether the applicant’s application for
probationary membership has been accepted or rejected.
   (G)   Probationary firefighters shall attend a regional or state fire school
within the first 5 years of membership. A probationary firefighter shall reside
within 5 minutes of the fire hall obeying all traffic laws and shall miss no
drills or meetings the first year without a valid excuse given to the Chiefs
prior to the drill or meeting.
   (H)   A probationary firefighter is required to serve 5 extra hours of
training the first year and will also be required to attend and complete
Firefighter I course in the county within 3 years.
   (I)   Any new probationary firefighter who has completed the probationary 1-
year period and is passed by a 2/3 majority vote held at the January meeting,
shall receive all of the benefits accorded a regular member
   (J)   Any rejected member forfeits the above benefits.
   (K)   Subject to the foregoing residence requirement regular firefighters
shall continue as members of the Department during good behavior, and may be
removed by the Council only for cause and after public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 8.102)
§ 91.03   DUTIES OF THE FIRE MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Office of Fire Marshal shall be held by the Chief of the
Department or a member of the Department appointed by the Chief, if the Council
approves by resolution.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal shall be charged with the enforcement of all
regulations aimed at fire prevention.
   (C)   The Fire Marshal shall have full authority to inspect all premises and
to cause the removal or abatement of all fire hazards.
(Prior Code, § 8.103)
§ 91.04   DUTIES OF THE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief shall have control over all of the firefighting apparatus
and shall be solely responsible for its care and condition. The Chief shall
make a report, semi-annually, to the Council at its first regular meetings in
March and September, as to the condition of the equipment and needs of the Fire
Department.
   (B)   The Chief may submit additional reports and recommendations at any
meeting of the Council, and shall report each suspension. The Chief shall be
responsible for the proper training and discipline of the members of the Fire
Department, and may suspend any members for refusal or neglect to obey orders
pending final action by the Council on any firefighter’s discharge or
retention,
(Prior Code, § 8.104)
§ 91.05   RECORDS.
   (A)   The Chief shall keep in convenient form a complete record of all
fires.
   (B)   This record shall include the time of the alarm, location of fire,
cause of the fire (if known), type of building, name of owner and tenant,
purpose for which occupied, value of building and contents, members of the
Department responding to the alarm, and other information as may be deemed
advisable or as may be required from time to time by the Council or State Fire
Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 8.105)
§ 91.06   PRACTICE DRILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief to hold a 2 monthly practice drills of at
least 2-hour’s duration for the Fire Department and to give the firefighters
instruction in approved methods of firefighting and fire prevention.
(Prior Code, § 8.106)
§ 91.07   ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   (A)   In the absence of or the disability of the Chief, the First Assistant
Chief shall perform all the functions and exercise all of the authority of the
Chief.
   (B)   In the absence or disability of the Chief and the First Assistant
Chief, the Second Assistant Chief shall perform all the functions and exercise
all of the authority of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 8.107)
§ 91.08   SECRETARY.
   (A)   The Secretary shall keep a record of the minutes of all meetings.
   (B)   The Secretary shall also keep records of all drills and Department
calls for the members and shall include in the minutes the Treasurer’s report
as given by the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8.108)
§ 91.09   TRAINING OFFICERS.
   (A)   It is the duty of the training officer(s) to schedule all drills for
the Department.
   (B)   The training officer(s) shall assign drills to each member and make
sure they carry them out.
   (C)   The training officer(s) will help with any drill if help is needed.
(Prior Code, § 8.109)
§ 91.10   FIREFIGHTER APPLICANTS.
   (A)   Shall be not less than 18.
   (B)   The Council may require that each applicant, before becoming a
probationary firefighter, must satisfy certain minimum requirements of
education and be physically able to do all Fire Department duties, and any
other qualifications which may be specified by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.110)
§ 91.11   COMPENSATION.
   The members and officers of the Fire Department shall receive compensation
as per current City Council agreement.
(Prior Code, § 8.111)
§ 91.12   MINIMUM PAY.
   In computing compensation for fires, 1 hour shall be considered as the
minimum to be paid to any firefighter or officer.
(Prior Code, § 8.112)
§ 91.13   PRESENT MEMBERS.
   Persons who are members of the Fire Department at the time of the adoption
of this chapter shall not be required to serve a probationary period before
receiving firefighter’s rating.
(Prior Code, § 8.113)
§ 91.14   RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   The members and officers of the Fire Department shall organize themselves
into a Firefighter’s Relief Association.
(Prior Code, § 8.114)
§ 91.15   INTERFERENCE WITH DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or make, or cause to be given or
made, an alarm of fire without probable cause, or to neglect or refuse to obey
any reasonable order of the Chief at a fire, or to interfere with the Fire
Department in the discharge of its duties.
(Prior Code, § 8.115) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
PUBLIC USE OF THE SLAYTON BURN SITE
§ 91.30   RULES FOR USE.
   The following rules for use of the City of Slayton burn site shall be
observed and obeyed at all times:
   (A)   Only trees, branches, brush and leaves (without bags) generated by the
cleanup of property within the boundaries of the city or, to a property owner
located outside the boundaries of the city who has applied  and/or obtained a
special permit issued by the City Council, shall be allowed to be deposited in
the burn site, except that concrete resulting from the cleanup of property
within the boundaries of the city will be allowed to be deposited in a
designated area in the burn site if the Public Works Department, at its
discretion, issues a special permit allowing the applying party to do so;
   (B)   Leaves (without bags) shall be permitted to be deposited in the
compost area of the burn site only;
   (C)   Trees, branches and brush shall be permitted to be deposited only in
an area separately marked and designated for the deposit of trees, branches and
brush; and
   (D)   No other garbage, trash, rubbish or refuse of any kind or type shall
be permitted to be deposited in the burn site.
(Prior Code, § 8.201) (Am. Ord. 323, passed 8-17-2009) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
FIRE PROTECTION AREAS
§ 91.45   BY CONTRACT.
   When a political subdivision enters into a contract with the city for fire
protection on property owned, leased or represented by the political
subdivision, and agrees to pay for the services at the rates prescribed, the
Fire Department thereafter shall go outside the city limits to answer fire
calls or alarms from the property or properties, but in no case shall the Fire
Department send apparatus to the property if the Fire Chief or other
individuals in charge of the Fire Department at the time decides that it is
needed for local service, and in no case shall it send more equipment or people
than is anticipated in the agreement.
(Prior Code, § 8.301)
§ 91.46   FEES.
   The rates to be charged for the service shall be those fixed from time to
time by resolution of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.302)
CHAPTER 92:  SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Definitions
   
92.002   Sidewalks
   
92.003   Parking lots
   
92.004   Streets
   
92.005   Weather emergency
   
92.006   Non-emergency snow routes; winter parking
Sidewalk Maintenance
   
92.020   Permits required
   
92.021   Application forms
   
92.022   Fees; installation
   
92.023   Permit expiration
   
92.024   Construction standards
   
92.025   Inspection
   
92.026   Removal of snow, ice, dirt and rubbish
   
92.027   Repair of sidewalks
   
92.028   Assessment
Sidewalk Use
   
92.040   Definitions
   
92.041   Animals
   
92.042   Vehicles or motor vehicles
Sidewalk Use on Broadway Avenue
   
92.055   Use of sidewalks
   
92.056   Display of merchandise
   
92.057   Permits
   
92.058   Receiving or delivering goods
   
92.059   Suspending merchandise
   
92.060   Construction of chapter
   
92.061   Definition
Naming of City Streets
   
92.075   Uniform system
   
92.076   Conforming
   
92.077   Administration
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET.  Any street, avenue, places drive, alley or any other public way in
the City of Slayton.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 12.101)
§ 92.002   SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Snow and or ice remaining on a public sidewalk more than 24 hours
after its deposit thereon is a public nuisance.
   (B)   The owner and the occupant of any property abutting upon any street or
alley within the corporate limits of the city shall clean or cause to be
cleaned the sidewalks so they will be free of snow and ice within 24 hours
after the matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased
falling.
   (C)   The Mayor may order the removal from public sidewalks of snow, ice
remaining 24 hours after it has been deposited thereon and he or she shall
direct the City Clerk/Administrator to keep a record of the cost of the removal
adjacent to each lot or parcel of land, and on or before September 1 of each
year, the City Clerk/Administrator shall list the total unpaid charges for work
performed on sidewalks attributable under this chapter.
   (D)   The Council may then spread the charges against the property
benefitted as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and other applicable statutes, for certification to the
County Auditor and collection the following year along with current taxes.
(Prior Code, § 12.102) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.003   PARKING LOTS.
   Snow will not be piled as to constitute a traffic hazard or cause a water
runoff problem when thawing.
(Prior Code, § 12.103)
§ 92.004   STREETS.
   Depositing snow or ice on any street within the City of Slayton is unlawful
except as authorized by Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 12.104) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.005   WEATHER EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor declares a snow emergency to exist in the City of
Slayton, the streets as designated by Council resolution and marked by signs as
snow emergency routes will be cleared of all parked vehicles until after all
snow has been removed.
   (B)   Notices of the emergency shall be given on radio station KLOH Slayton.
   (C)   In the absence of the Mayor, the Vice Mayor shall declare the
emergency.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to park on designated routes during a snow
emergency.
   (E)   Any vehicle, which shall be left parked or standing in violation of
this chapter, shall be summarily removed without notice to the owner or
operator, by officers of the City of Slayton Police Department, or persons
employed or designated by them and stored in any appropriate place.
   (F)   All necessary costs and expenses of towing, removing and storage of
vehicles shall first be paid to the Police Department or persons employed or
designated by them to receive same before release of the vehicles to the
persons claiming them shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 12.105) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.006   NON-EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTES; WINTER PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle or permit it to stand on any
street so as to obstruct the removal of snow from street during snow removal
operations.
(Prior Code, § 12.106) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE
§ 92.020   PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No public sidewalk shall be repaired or installed by any person, company,
corporation or association without first having a written permit from the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.201) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.021   APPLICATION FORMS.
   Application for a sidewalk repair or installation permit shall be made to
the City Clerk/Administrator on forms furnished by the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.202)
§ 92.022   FEES; INSTALLATION.
   Fees for a sidewalk installation or repair permit payable in advance are as
set out in §
33.15, except a fee shall not be charged when repairs are required pursuant to
§ 12.308.
(Prior Code, § 12.203)
§ 92.023   PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   A permit shall expire for work not started within 30 days or completed
within 60 days after issuance of a permit, and a new permit shall be required
before beginning or completing the work.
(Prior Code, § 12.204)
§ 92.024   CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   Sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in accordance with details and
specifications as established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 12.205)
§ 92.025   INSPECTION.
   All work shall be subject to inspection and approval by the City Street
Superintendent during construction and upon completion.
(Prior Code, § 12.206)
§ 92.026   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, DIRT AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish remaining on a public sidewalk more than
24 hours after its deposit thereon is a public nuisance.
   (B)   The owner and the occupant of any property abutting upon any street or
alley within the corporate limits of the city shall clean or cause to be
cleaned the sidewalks so they will be free of snow, ice, dirt or rubbish within
24 hours after the matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has
ceased falling.
   (C)   The City Street Superintendent may order the removal from public
sidewalks of snow, ice, dirt or rubbish remaining 24 hours after it has been
deposited thereon and he or she shall keep a record of the cost of the removal
adjacent to each lot or parcel of land, and shall deliver that information to
the City Clerk/Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 12.207)
§ 92.027   REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   All owners or agents of owners with property abutting and fronting
upon a street or alley within the corporate limits of the city are required to
keep the public sidewalks immediately abutting their property in good order and
repair.
   (B)   Each owner shall be liable to the city for all losses to the city or
recoveries from the city for damages to person or property of others caused by
his or her failure or that of his or her agents to repair and keep in good
order and safe condition all sidewalks abutting and fronting his or her
property upon any street or alley within the corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   The city may, at its discretion, through the City Street
Superintendent or the City Clerk/Administrator, notify the owners that repairs
are necessary to put the sidewalk in good order and the owner shall within 60
days after the notification, under the supervision of the City Street
Superintendent, complete the repairs as specified in the notice.
   (D)   If the person fails to make the required repairs, the city may repair
the same and the owner shall be liable to the city for the cost of the repairs
and the expense thereof shall be paid by the owner and if unpaid, it will be
made a special assessment against the abutting property. A permit shall be
required to make repairs pursuant to this section; however, there will be no
charge for a like permit.
(Prior Code, § 12.208)
§ 92.028   ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk/Administrator
shall list the total unpaid charges for work performed on sidewalks abutting
each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this chapter.
   (B)   The Council may then spread the charges against the property
benefitted as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and other applicable statutes, for certification to the
County Auditor and collection the following year along with current taxes.
(Prior Code, § 12.209)
SIDEWALK USE
§ 92.040   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Every vehicle which is self-propelled and not deriving its
power from overhead wires.
   PERSON.
      (1)   Includes a natural person of either sex, a co-partnership, a
corporation or association of persons, and the agent or employee of any of the
aforesaid.
      (2)   The singular number includes the plural, and the masculine pronoun
includes the feminine and neuter.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 12.301)
§ 92.041   ANIMALS.
   No person shall ride animals on any sidewalk in the City of Slayton.
(Prior Code, § 12.302) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.042   VEHICLES OR MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive or place any vehicle or motor vehicle on any sidewalk
in the City of Slayton.
(Prior Code, § 12.303) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
SIDEWALK USE ON BROADWAY AVENUE
§ 92.055   USE OF SIDEWALKS.
   Unless acting under a written permit of the city as hereinafter provided it
shall be unlawful for any person to store, pile, erect, deposit, keep or place
or cause, permit or suffer to be stored, piled, erected, deposited, kept or
placed upon Broadway Avenue in the City of Slayton, within 7 feet of the curb,
any rubbish, wood, coal, boxes, barrels, stone, brick, lumber, dirt,
merchandise, shipping case, stand, stall, booth or show case or other
obstruction of any kind, except as herein or otherwise provided by law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 12.401) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.056   DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE.
   When authorized by written permit with the city, it shall be lawful for a
person authorized hereby during the time the person’s store or building is open
for business, to place or set out for exhibition any goods, wares or
merchandise directly connected with the business transacted, by the person, on
the area described in §
92.075(A) below.
(Prior Code, § 12.402) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.057   PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued hereunder, unless approved by the City
Council.
   (B)   The Council shall consider all written applications for a permit,
which shall contain the following terms and conditions:
      (1)   Setting forth the sidewalks and portions thereof proposed to be
used and the location thereof;
      (2)   The period of time for which the permit is requested;
      (3)   The purpose thereof;
      (4)   No item or items displayed will be allowed to be suspended from an
awning or projection from the building;
      (5)   The applicant must agree to provide the city, at no expense to the
city, with liability insurance protecting the city from liability for damages
to property or injuries to persons that may arise out of the use of the
sidewalk for which the permit is desired, in an amount as the Council may deem
necessary; and
      (6)   Other special conditions as may be applicable.
(Prior Code, § 12.403)
§ 92.058   RECEIVING OR DELIVERING GOODS.
   It shall be lawful for any person to place or keep any goods, wares,
merchandise, baggage or any articles of personal property which the person may
be receiving or delivering, and to unpack and remove the contents of any box,
barrel or other receptacle, only on that part of any sidewalk next to the curb
line not exceeding 4 feet in width and in front only of the store or building
the person owns, controls or occupies, but the goods, wares or merchandise
shall not remain on the part of the sidewalk for a period longer than 2 hours.
(Prior Code, § 12.404) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.059   SUSPENDING MERCHANDISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hang out or suspend over Broadway
Avenue in the City of Slayton any goods, wares or merchandise in front of any
store, house or other building except as authorized by a written permit.
(Prior Code, § 12.405) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.060   CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the
moving of goods, wares and merchandise across any sidewalk on Broadway Avenue
in the way of trade or for the use of families.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as giving authority to any
owner or occupant of any premises on Broadway Avenue to let, sub-let, rent,
lease or grant any of the sidewalk space for business of any kind or for any
purpose whatsoever; and any person so found doing business may be summarily
removed by the police and be deemed a violator of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.406)
§ 92.061   DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON.  Includes 1 or more persons of either sex, natural persons,
corporations, partnerships, civic and commerce associations, other
associations, joint stock companies, societies and all other entities of any
kind capable of being sued.
(Prior Code, § 12.407)
NAMING OF CITY STREETS
§ 92.075   UNIFORM SYSTEM.
   (A)   A uniform system of renumbering and/or renaming the streets and
avenues; also numbering lots and structures in the City of Slayton, as
indicated on the detailed map, which is on file in the office of the City
Recorder, is hereby adopted for use in the City of Slayton. The map and all
explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The streets and avenues so changed by number or name; also the lots
and structures with uniform system of numbers, within the corporate limits of
the City of Slayton shall hereinafter be identified by reference to the uniform
system herein adopted, and as shown on the map mentioned in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, §§ 12.501, 12.502)
§ 92.076   CONFORMING.
   All existing numbers of property and buildings not now in conformity to the
system herein adopted shall be numbered to conform to the system within 6
months from the date of passage of this chapter.
   (A)   A separate number shall be assigned for each 10 feet of frontage.
   (B)   Each principal building shall bear the number assigned to the frontage
on which the front entrance is located. In case a principal building is
occupied by more than 1 business or family dwelling unit, each separate
entrance of the principal building shall bear a separate number.
   (C)   Numerals indicating the official numbers for each principal building
or front entrance to the building shall be posted in a manner as to be visible
from the street on which the property is located. Each property owner shall
assume the cost of numerals.
(Prior Code, § 12.503)
§ 92.077   ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The City Recorder shall be responsible for maintaining the numbering
system. In the performance of this responsibility he or she shall be guided by
the provisions of §
92.075(B) above.
   (B)   The Recorder shall keep a record of all numbers assigned under this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.504)
CHAPTER 93:  ENVIRONMENT
Section
Trees
   
93.01   Declaration of policy
   
93.02   Dutch elm disease program
   
93.03   Nuisance declared
   
93.04   Abatement
   
93.05   Inspection and investigation
   
93.06   Abatement of Dutch elm disease nuisance
   
93.07   Abatement of Dutch elm nuisance on private property
   
93.08   Collection of assessment
   
93.09   Transporting elm wood prohibited
   
93.10   Interference prohibited
   
93.11   Position of City Forester
TREES
§ 93.01   DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   The City Council of Slayton has determined that the health of the elm
trees within the municipal limits is threatened by a fatal disease known as
Dutch elm disease.
   (B)   It has further determined that the loss of elm trees growing upon
public and private property would substantially depreciate the value of
property within the city and impair the safety, good order, general welfare and
convenience of the public.
   (C)   It is declared to be the intention of the Council to control and
prevent the spread of this disease and this chapter is enacted for that
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 16.101)
§ 93.02   DUTCH ELM DISEASE PROGRAM.
   (A)   It is the intention of the Council of Slayton to conduct a program of
plant pest control pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 18G.16, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   This program is directed specifically at the control and elimination
of Dutch elm disease fungus and elm bark beetles and is undertaken at the
recommendation of the Commissioner of Agriculture.
   (C)   The City Forester, hereinafter provided for, shall act as coordinator
between the Commissioner of Agriculture and the Council in the conduct of this
program.
(Prior Code, § 16.102)
§ 93.03   NUISANCE DECLARED.
   The following things are public nuisances whenever they may be found within
the City of Slayton:
   (A)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any degree
with the Dutch elm disease fungus, Ceratocystis ulmi (Buisman) Mureau, or which
harbors any of elm bark beetles, Scolytus multistrialus (Eich.) or Hylurgapinus
rufipes (March.); and
   (B)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including logs, branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide.
(Prior Code, § 16.103)
§ 93.04   ABATEMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit any public nuisance as defined in §
93.03 above to remain on any premises owned, leased, occupied or controlled by
him or her within the city. The nuisance may be abated in the manner prescribed
by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.104) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.05   INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The City Forester, his or her agents or employees shall inspect all
premises and places within the city as often as practicable to determine
whether any condition described in §
93.03 above exists therein. They shall investigate and report incidents of
infestation by Dutch elm fungus or elm bark beetles to the City Council.
   (B)   The City Forester, his or her agents or employees may enter upon
private premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of carrying out any of
the duties assigned to them under this chapter.
   (C)   The City Forester, his or her agents or employees, upon finding
conditions indicating Dutch elm infestation, immediately shall take and send
appropriate specimens or samples to the Commissioner of Agriculture (Bureau of
Plant Industry), State of Minnesota, for analysis, or take other steps for
diagnosis as may be recommended by the Commissioner of Agriculture.
   (D)   No action to remove infected trees or wood shall be taken until
positive diagnosis of the disease has been made.
   (E)   Within 5 days of receipt of the diagnosis, the owner, lessee, occupant
or person in control of the property from which the specimen was obtained shall
be notified of the result by registered mail.
(Prior Code, § 16.105)
§ 93.06   ABATEMENT OF DUTCH ELM DISEASE NUISANCE.
   (A)   In abating the nuisances defined in §
93.03 above, the City Forester, his or her agents or employees shall cause the
infected trees or wood to be removed and burned or otherwise effectively
treated so as to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the spread of Dutch
elm disease fungus and elm bark beetles.
   (B)   The abatement procedures shall be carried out in accordance with the
current technical and expert methods and plans as may be designated by the
Commissioner of Agriculture of the State of Minnesota. The City Council shall
establish specifications for tree removal and disposal methods consistent
therewith.
(Prior Code, § 16.106)
§ 93.07   ABATEMENT OF DUTCH ELM NUISANCE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever the City Forester, his or her agents or employees, finds with
reasonable certainty that the infestation defined in §
93.03 above exists in any tree or wood located on private property, outside of
any public way in the city, they shall notify by registered or certified mail,
the owner, lessee, occupant or person in control of the property on which they
nuisance is found, of the infestation and direct that the infestation shall be
removed and burned, or otherwise effectively treated in an approved manner by
the owner, lessee, occupant or person in control within 10 days after receipt
of the notice.
   (B)   The notice shall also state that if the nuisance shall not have been
abated by the owner, lessee, occupant or person in control within the time
provided, the owner, lessee, occupant or person in control may be charged with
a violation of this chapter for maintaining a nuisance and that the city by and
through its City Council may abate the nuisance and assess the costs against
the property.
   (C)   If the owner, lessee, occupant or person in control of any private
premises upon which a tree is situated fails to have the tree so removed and
burned or otherwise effectively treated, within 10 days after notification by
mail the City Forester, his or her agents or employees, shall proceed to have
the tree removed and burned or otherwise effectively treated, and any expense
incurred by the city in so doing shall be a charge and lien upon the property
and shall be collected as a special assessment in the same manner as other
special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 16.107) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.08   COLLECTION OF ASSESSMENT.
   The cost of the abatement of any like nuisance paid by the city and not
reimbursed by the owner on or before September 1 of each year shall be reported
by the City Forester to the City Council and the City Council shall assess and
levy and cause to be collected the amount of the cost as a special assessment,
upon and against the premises and property upon which the nuisance existed in
like manner as other special assessments, payable in 1 sum.
(Prior Code, § 16.108)
§ 93.09   TRANSPORTING ELM WOOD PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport within the city any
bark bearing elm wood without having obtained a permit from the City Forester.
   (B)   The City Forester shall grant permits only when the purpose of this
chapter shall be served thereby.
(Prior Code, § 16.109) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.10   INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Forester, his or her agents or employees while they are engaged in the
performance of duties imposed by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.110) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.11   POSITION OF CITY FORESTER.
   (A)   The position of City Forester is hereby created.
   (B)   The Park Superintendent of the City of Slayton or other city official
or person as may be designated from time to time by the City Council shall
perform the duties of the City Forester.
   (C)   The appointment to fill the position shall be made by a resolution of
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 16.111)
CHAPTER 94:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Declaration of policy
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Exemptions
   
94.05   Procedure
   
94.06   Other remedies
§ 94.01   DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City of Slayton in the
exercise of its police power for the public safety, public health and general
welfare to assure equal opportunity to all persons to live in decent housing
facilities regardless of race, color, religion, sex or national origin and, to
that end, to prohibit discrimination in housing by any persons.
(Prior Code, § 17.101)
§ 94.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATION or DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE.  Any difference in
treatment based upon race, color, religion, sex or national origin or any act
that is unlawful under this chapter.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.  Includes any person, as defined herein, engaged in
the business of lending money or guaranteeing losses.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION or DWELLING.  Any building, mobile home or trailer,
structure or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed, or intended for
occupancy, as a residence by 1 or more families, and any vacant land which is
offered for sale of lease for the construction or location thereon of any
building, mobile home or trailer, structure or portion thereof or any real
property, as defined herein, used or intended to be used for the purpose set
forth in this section.
   MORTGAGE BROKER.  An individual who is engaged in or who performs the
business or services of a mortgage broker as the same are defined by Minnesota
Statutes.
   OPEN MARKET.  The market which is informed of the availability for sale,
purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, whether informed
through a real estate broker or by advertising by publication, signs or by any
other advertising methods directed to the public or any portion thereof,
indicating that the property is available for sale, purchase, rental or lease.
   OWNER.  Includes a lessee, sublessee, co-tenant, assignee, managing agent or
other person having the right of ownership or possession, or the right to sell,
rent or lease any housing accommodation.
   PERSON.  Includes individuals, children, firms, associations, joint
adventures, partnerships, estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates,
fiduciaries, corporations and all other groups or combinations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER or REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON.  Includes any individual,
qualified by law, who, for a fee, commission, salary or for other valuable
consideration, or who with the intention or expectation of receiving or
collecting same, lists, sell, purchases, rents or leases any housing
accommodation, including options thereupon, or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate those activities; or advertises or holds himself or herself out as
engaged in those activities; or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate a loan,
secured by a mortgage or other encumbrance, upon transfer of any housing
accommodation; or who is engaged in the business of charging an advance fee or
contracting for collection of a fee in connection with a contract whereby he or
she undertakes to promote the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing
accommodation through its listing in a publication issued primarily for that
purpose; or an individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes buildings, structures, lands, tenements,
leaseholds, cooperatives and condominiums.
(Prior Code, § 17.102)
§ 94.03   UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   In connection with any of the transactions set forth in this section which
affects any housing accommodation on the open market, or in connection with any
public sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, it shall
be unlawful within the City of Slayton for a person, owner, financial
institution, real estate broker or real estate salesperson, or any
representative of the above, to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell, purchase, rent or lease, or deny to or with hold any
housing accommodation from a person because of his or her race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
   (B)   To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation,
or in the furnishing of facilities of services in connection therewith;
   (C)   To refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to sell, purchase,
rent or lease any housing accommodation from or to a person because of his or
her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
   (D)   To refuse to negotiate for the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any
housing accommodation to a person because of his or her race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
   (E)   To represent to a person that any housing accommodation is not
available for inspection, sale, purchase, rental or lease when in fact it is so
available, or to refuse to permit a person to inspect any housing
accommodation, because of his or her race, color, religion or national origin,
sex or place of birth;
   (F)   To make, publish, print, circulate, post or mail, or cause to be made,
published, printed, circulated, posted or mailed, any notice, statement or
advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to sign or to use a form of
application for the sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, or to make a record of inquiry in connection with the
prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, which indicates any discrimination or any intent to make a
discrimination;
   (G)   To offer, solicit, accept or use a listing of any housing
accommodation for sale, purchase, rental or lease with the understanding that a
person may be subjected to discrimination in connection with the sale,
purchase, rental or lease, or in the furnishing of facilities or services in
connection therewith;
   (H)   To induce directly or indirectly, or attempt to induce directly or
indirectly, the sale, purchase, rental or lease, or the listing for any of the
above, of any housing accommodation by representing that the presence or
anticipated presence of persons of any particular race, color, religion, sex or
national origin or place of birth in the area to be affected by the sale,
purchase, rental or lease will or may result in either:
      (1)   The lowering of property values in the area;
      (2)   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; or
      (3)   A decline in the quality of schools serving the area.
   (I)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale,
purchase, rental or lease, or the anticipated listing for any of the above, or
the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation in any area in
the City of Slayton for the purpose of including or attempting to induce any
listing or any of the above transactions;
   (J)   To engage in or hire to be done, or to conspire with others to commit
acts or activities of any nature, the purpose of which is to coerce, cause
panic, incite unrest or create or play upon fear, with the purpose of either
discouraging or inducing, or attempting to induce, the sale, purchase, rental
or lease, or the listing for any of the above, of any housing accommodation;
   (K)   To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because he
or she has opposed a practice declared unlawful by this chapter, or because he
or she has filed a complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any manner
in any investigation proceeding, hearing or conference under this chapter;
   (L)   To aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce any person to engage in any of
the practices prohibited by this chapter; or to obstruct or prevent any person
from complying with the provisions of this chapter; or any order issued
thereunder;
   (M)   By canvassing, to commit any unlawful practices prohibited by this
chapter;
   (N)   Otherwise to deny to, or withhold any housing accommodation from a
person because of his or her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin,
sex or place of birth;
   (O)   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or
other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in
whole or in part, in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan
or other financial assistance to a person applying therefore for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to
discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount, interest rate,
duration or other terms or conditions of the loans or other financial
assistance, because of the race, color, religion, sex or national origin of
that person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with the
loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of the loan or other
financial assistance is to be made or given; or
   (P)   To deny any qualified person access to or membership or participation
in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’ organization, or other
service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of access, membership or participation, on account of race, color,
religion, sex or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 17.103) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.04   EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A religious organization, association or society or any nonprofit
institution or organization operating, supervised or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association or society, which limits
the sale, rental or occupancy, of dwellings which it owns or operates for other
than commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or which gives
preference to those persons, unless membership in the religion is restricted on
account of race, color, sex or national origin;
   (B)   A private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to
its primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose, and which limits the rental or occupancy
of lodgings to its members or gives preference to its members;
   (C)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided, that the
private individual owner does not own more than 3 like single-family house at
any 1 time, provided further, that in the case of the sale of any like single-
family house by a private individual owner not residing in the house at the
time of the sale or who was not the most recent resident of the house prior to
the sale, the exemption granted by this section shall apply only with respect
to one like sale within any 24-month period, provided further that the bona
fide private individual owner does not own any interest in, nor is there owned
or served on his or her behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title
to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental or,
more than 3 like single-family houses at any 1 time, provided further, the sale
or rental of any like single-family house shall be expected from the
application of this chapter only if the house is sold or rented:
      (1)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities or
the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson,
or of the facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any like broker, agent,
salesperson; and
      (2)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of the provisions of 42 U.S.C. §
3604(c) or of §
94.03 above; but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other professional assistance
as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
   (D)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than 4 families living independently of each
other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies 1 of the living quarters as
his or her residence
(Prior Code, § 17.104)
§ 94.05   PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an unlawful practice prohibited by this
chapter may file a complaint with the City Attorney within 30 days after the
aggrieved person becomes aware of the alleged unlawful practice, and in no
event more than 60 days after the alleged unlawful practice occurred.
   (B)   The City Attorney or his or her duly authorized representative shall
investigate each complaint and attempt to resolve each complaint. Failure to
achieve a resolution acceptable to both parties and compliance with this
chapter shall cause the City Attorney to forward the complaint and his or her
findings to appropriate state and federal officials.
(Prior Code, § 17.105)
§ 94.06   OTHER REMEDIES.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent any person from exercising any right
or seeking any remedy to which he or she might otherwise be entitled or from
filing his or her complaint with any appropriate governmental agency.
(Prior Code, § 17.106)
CHAPTER 95:  PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Public nuisance prohibition
   
95.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
95.03   Nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
95.04   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
95.05   Noise violations
   
95.06   Nuisance parking and storage
   
95.07   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
95.08   Duties of city officers
   
95.09   Abatement procedure
   
95.10   Recovery of cost
   
95.11   Maintenance ordinance, general requirements
   
95.12   Violations
   
95.13   Notices and orders
   
95.14   Nuisance Board
   
95.15   Means of appeal
   
95.16   Exterior property areas
   
95.17   Exterior structure
   
95.18   Water system
   
95.19   Sanitary drainage system
   
95.20   Storm drainage
   
95.21   Vacant buildings
   
95.22   Nonresidential, industrial, commercial and institutional uses
Abandoned Vehicles; Unclaimed and Excess Property
   
95.30   Disposal of abandoned motor vehicles
   
95.31   Unclaimed property; disposal
   
95.32   Excess property; disposal
   
95.33   Persons who may not purchase; exception
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01  PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITION.
   A person must not act, or fail to act, in a manner that is or causes a
public nuisance. For the purpose of this chapter, a person that does any of the
following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures,
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage, any
public highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public;
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or this chapter to be a
public nuisance; or
   (D)   State defined nuisances. Any nuisance so defined by M.S. § 561.01, as
amended from time to time, supplemented or replaced, or by the common law of
the state, is also a nuisance under this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 290, passed 7-2-2001; Am. Ord. 330, passed 4-5-2010; Am. Ord. 336,
passed 6-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02  PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting the public health:
   (A)   The exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulation of manure, refuse, or other debris. Accumulations of
decayed animal or vegetable matter, unwholesome food, manure, trash, rubbish,
debris, rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, cardboard, plastic bags and
containers, bottles, cans, scrap metal, brush, or any material in which flies,
mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rats or other vermin may breed;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight,
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   (1)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake,
canal or body of water by sewage, industrial wastes or other substances; and
      (2)   Depositing or permitting to be deposited in or to escape into any
sanitary sewer or any sanitary sewer system or part thereof, any substance or
thing which damages or is deleterious or injurious to any sewer system or the
usefulness or operation thereof;
   (H)   Grass, weeds, leaves and other vegetation upon private property;
      (1)   It is unlawful for any owner, occupant or agent of any lot or
parcel of land to allow any weeds or grass growing upon any lot or parcel of
land to grow to a greater height than 6 inches or to allow the weeds or grass
to go to seed;
      (2)   It is unlawful for any owner, occupant or agent of any lot or
parcel of land to fail to remove all public health or safety hazards thereon,
to fail to treat or remove insect-infested or diseased trees thereon; and
      (3)   If any owner, occupant or agent fails to comply with this division
(H), and after notice given by the city, has not within 48 hours of the notice
complied, the city may cause the weeds or grass to be cut, or public health or
safety hazards removed, or diseased or insect-infested trees treated or
removed, and the expense thus incurred, including administrative  costs, shall
be the personal liability of the owner of the premises. A bill, indicating the
cost, will be sent to the owner, occupant or agent. If the total amount is not
paid in accordance with the terms indicated on the bill, the amount of the
costs and expenses incurred, plus accrued interest on the unpaid balance, shall
be charged against the property involved as a special assessment as authorized
by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection the following
year along with the current taxes;
   (I)   Tree diseases. The following are public nuisances whenever they may be
found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriaus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any living or standing ash tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Emerald Ash Borer [Agrilus Planipennis Fairmaire (Coleoptera:
Bupretidae)] Beetle or which harbors any of the Emerald Ash Borer Beetle;
      (3)   Any dead ash or elm tree or part thereof, including branches,
stumps, firewood or any other material from which the bark has not  been
removed and burned or sprayed with an effective insecticide;
      (4)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt Fungus (Ceratocystis Fagacearum);
      (5)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated officer constitutes a hazard, including, but not limited to, logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide; and/or
      (6)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease;
   (J)   Storage restrictions.
      (1)   Firewood. Firewood shall be stored in a compact and orderly fashion
so as not to constitute a hazard to adjacent buildings or property or to
endanger the public health. Stacks of wood in the open shall not exceed 6 feet
in height and without consent of adjacent property owners shall not be located
less than 5 feet from a boundary line. There shall be no front yard or front
lot storage of firewood in the city, nor side yard storage on a corner lot;
provided that, this division (J)(1) shall not prevent businesses that sell
firewood from displaying firewood to the public in a manner that is deemed
necessary for the business purposes, as long as the storage and display does
not violate any other of the provisions of this section;
      (2)   Pipe, lumber and the like. The storage of pipe, lumber, forms,
steel, machinery or similar materials shall not be allowed on residential
property;
      (3)   Solid fuel. For the purpose of this division (J)(3), SOLID FUEL
includes, but is not limited to, corn, shelled or unshelled, and wood pellets.
Outdoor storage requirements for solid fuel shall be as follows:
         (a)   The storage container shall be painted and designed to blend in
with the structure it serves or be screened from view of neighboring
properties;
         (b)   The container shall be permanently attached to the ground;
         (c)   The container shall be of sturdy leak-proof construction with a
leak-proof lid; and
         (d)   Storage of grain shall not be allowed in zoning districts R-1,
R-2, R-3, R- M, B-1, B-2, I-1, or A-O except as provided in this section;
   (K)   Junk yards. For the purpose of this division (K), the words JUNK YARDS
shall be defined as: land or buildings where waste, discarded, or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, cleaned, packed, disassembled,
or handled, including, but not limited to, scrap metal, rags, paper, hides,
rubber products, glass products, lumber products and products resulting from
the wrecking of automobiles or other vehicles. All junk yard storage shall be
hidden from view from any public right-of-way and adjacent properties. This
shall be accomplished by fencing and/or screening as specified in
Ch. 152 of this code;
   (L)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders in unreasonable
quantities;
   (M)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (N)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
(Am. Ord. 290, passed 7-2-2001; Am. Ord. 330, passed 4-5-2010; Am. Ord. 336,
passed 6-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03  NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state, or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is manufactured or
disposed of in violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are
permitted to resort, for the purpose of drinking intoxicating or 3.2 malt
liquor, or where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is kept for sale or other
disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and other property used for
maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating or
3.2 malt liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or
illegal purpose.
(Am. Ord. 290, passed 7-2-2001; Am. Ord. 330, passed 4-5-2010; Am. Ord. 336,
passed 6-6-2016)
§ 95.04  PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice that is  not removed from public sidewalks within 24
hours after the snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to
fall;
   (B)   All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces and similar
areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and maintained free from
hazardous condition;
   (C)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (D)   All limbs of trees which are less than 7 feet above the surface of any
public sidewalk, or less than 9 feet above the surface of any street;
   (E)   Any person participating in any party or other gathering that causes
the unreasonable disturbing of the peace, quiet, or repose of another person;
   (F)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations;
   (G)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds, except under conditions as are
permitted by this chapter or other applicable law;
   (H)   Radio aerials or television antennas erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (I)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk that causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic, and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (J)   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated as to endanger public safety, or not constructed and
maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (K)   The allowing of rainwater, ice, or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to follow across any sidewalk;
   (L)   (1)   Any barbed wire fence located within a residentially zoned
district as defined in
Ch. 152 of this code;
      (2)   Any barbed wire fence located less than 5 feet above the ground
within any commercial or industrial zoned district as defined as
Ch. 152 of this code;
   (M)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (N)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
properties;
   (O)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies, or other materials in a manner conducive to
harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health, or other
safety hazards from such accumulation;
   (P)   Any well, hole, or similar excavation that is left uncovered or in
such other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person
coming on the premises where it is located;
   (Q)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (R)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk, or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substances that may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over such
substance. It is a violation of this section to haul any soil or material, not
adequately enclosed or covered, thereby permitting the same to fall upon the
streets;
   (S)   The depositing of garbage or refuse, including but not limited to
grass clippings, on a public right-of-way or on adjacent private property;
   (T)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5-
foot candles as measured on the property line of the property where the
lighting is located when abutting any residential parcel, and 1-foot candles
when abutting any commercial or industrial parcel;
   (U)   All other conditions or things that are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of another;
   (V)   All use or display of fireworks except as provided by law;
   (W)   Placing, leaving or keeping, on the public streets or alleys property
other than vehicles;
   (X)   Knowingly keeping any domestic and/or wild animal which annoys or
endangers the public or endangers the public in the use or keeping of property;
   (Y)   All buildings or structures so old, dilapidated or out of repair as to
be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human use;
   (Z)   Any fence that is not constructed in a substantial workmanlike manner
and of substantial material reasonably suitable for the purpose for which the
fence is proposed to be used; any fence that has been constructed of improper
materials for the district in which it is located, such as the use of barbed
wire or electric fencing in a residential district or as a boundary fence; any
fence that has not been maintained and is in a condition of disrepair or has
become a danger to public safety, health or welfare. The following types of
fencing are prohibited:
      (1)   Any fence that is higher than 8 feet in height;
      (2)   Barbed wire fence in residential areas, or any barbed wire fence
where the bottom strand of wire is less than 6 feet above the ground;
      (3)   In residential areas, fences made of poultry netting or woven wire,
provided that:
         (a)   So called chain-link or “cyclone” fencing, where rigid
galvanized wire of at least 3/32 inch diameter is twisted into fencing having
square or diamond-shaped openings of not more than 4 inches in diameter and
having rigid metal posts and top bar, is permitted;
         (b)   Small areas within yards enclosing gardens may be seasonably
fenced with wire fences to prevent entry of rodents or other animals;
      (4)   Fences made substantially of scrap wood or other scrap materials or
wooden shipping pallets;
      (5)   Fences having poles which are inadequate in number or not firmly
placed in the ground sufficient to maintain the rigidity of the fence, taking
into consideration the type of fence, possible snow load against it and any
other pertinent factors;
      (6)   In residential areas, fences where the main fence barrier consists
largely of solid sheets of metal, such as roofing steel or similar materials,
or sheets of plastic or fiberglass;
      (7)   Fences, which, because of design, materials used, or installation
practices, present a significant possibility of being damaged by wind or snow,
or which may bag or sag and not present a fence in line with the posts thereof;
      (8)   Fences of any type where, taking into account the planned location
of the fence, the fencing material to be used and any other pertinent factors,
the fence would constitute a specific hazard to persons or property;
      (9)   Any fence currently existing and which does not comply with
divisions (2), (3), or (5) above, shall be permitted until 1 year after the
effective date of this chapter, but not thereafter;
   (AA)   All open and unguarded pits, wells, in-ground pool, excavations or
unused basements freely accessible from any public street, alley or sidewalk;
   (BB)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused items including,
but not limited to, machinery, household appliances, household furniture and
flooring, consumer electronics (i.e. computer equipment, cell phones, TVs,
other audio and/or visual equipment), any materials not designed for outdoor
use, motor vehicle bodies or parts, tire, batteries, unused and/or discarded
construction materials; accumulations of any materials in a manner conducive to
the harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin; or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated; or accumulations in a manner creating fire,
health or safety hazards;
   (CC)   Any unauthorized or unlawful use of property abutting on a public
street, alley, or sidewalk or of a public street, alley or sidewalk which
causes large crowds of people to gather, obstructing traffic and free use of
the streets or sidewalks; and
   (DD)   Any abandoned above or underground tank whose capacity is in excess
of 1,100 gallons.
(Am. Ord. 290, passed 7-2-2001; Am. Ord. 330, passed 4-5-2010; Am. Ord. 336,
passed 6-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05  NOISE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited noises. The following are declared to be nuisances
affecting public health, safety, peace, or welfare:
      (1)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or
welfare of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property, or affects
their property's value (this general prohibition is not limited by any specific
restrictions provided in this chapter);
      (2)   All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation of
Minnesota Rules Chapter 7030, as they may be amended from time to time, are
hereby incorporated into this chapter by reference;
      (3)   The use of any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to create
loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise;
      (4)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of the
exhaust of any statutory internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile, or any recreational device,
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
         (a)   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a
muffler in working order which blends the exhaust noise into the overall
vehicle noise and is in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise; and
         (b)   No person shall use a dynamic engine or transmission brake,
muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor vehicle on a street or
highway;
      (5)   Any loud or excessive noise in the loading, unloading, or unpacking
of any vehicle;
      (6)   The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device, paging
system, machine, or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a
distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet, and
comfort of any person nearby; and
      (7)   Animals, birds and the like. No person shall keep, or allow to be
kept, any animal which is causing long continued noise which disturbs the
comfort or repose of any person(s) in the vicinity.
   (B)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
      (1)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chainsaw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill, or
other similar domestic power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 9:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this provision.
      (2)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine, or other power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
      (3)   Radios, music devices, paging systems, and the like. The operation
of any device referred to in division (A)(6) between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line of the
structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50 feet if
the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
      (4)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation, alteration, or project that may be
considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. The Council shall evaluate each statement and
take its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or
permit applied for, or the zoning changes requested.
(Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
95.99
Cross-reference:
   Animals, See
Ch. 90
§ 95.06  NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially zoned property of large numbers of vehicles, materials, supplies,
or equipment not customarily used for residential purpose in violation of the
requirements set forth below is declared to be a public nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Prevents the full use of residential streets for residential
parking;
      (4)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (5)   Decrease adjoining landowners' and occupants' use and enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood; and
      (6)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of ice fishing houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses, or other similar non-
permanent structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front
yard area of residential property unless more than 30 feet back from the front
property line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in conjunction with a business, outside on residential property.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit, or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than 4 vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be parked
or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. The maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional guests
who do not reside on the property;
         (b)   Vehicles, watercraft, and other articles that are parked or
stored outside in front or side yard areas must be on a paved or graveled
parking surface or driveway area; and
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft, and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away for school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
(Ord. 330, passed 4-5-2010; Am. Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07  INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Any motor vehicle described in this section
shall constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the
community as such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and
breeding ground for vermin, and present physical danger to the safety and well-
being of children and citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids
which, if released into the environment, can and do cause significant health
risks to the community.
   (B)   Inoperable motor vehicles. It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store,
or abandon any motor vehicle that is not in operating condition, partially
dismantled, used for repair of parts, or as a source of repair or replacement
parts for other vehicles, kept for scrapping, dismantling, or salvage of any
kind, or which is not properly licensed for operation within the state,
pursuant to M.S. § 168B.011, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Screening. This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in
a building and/or kept out of view from any street, road, or alley, and which
does not foster complaint from a resident of the city.
(Am. Ord. 290, passed 7-2-2001; Am. Ord. 330, passed 4-5-2010; Am. Ord. 336,
passed 6-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08  DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   City officials may apply and enforce any provision of this chapter relating
to public nuisances within this jurisdiction.  Any peace officer or other
designated city official shall have the power to inspect private premises and
take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance of
public nuisances.  Except in emergency situations of imminent danger to human
like and safety, no peace officer or designated city official will enter
private property for the purpose of inspecting or preventing public nuisances
without the permission of the owner, resident, or other person in control of
the property, unless the officer or person designated has obtained a warrant or
order from a court of competent jurisdiction authorizing entry.
(Ord. 330, passed 4-5-2010; Am. Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 95.09  ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Authorized city personnel shall give notice to any person maintaining
a nuisance or inoperable/unlicensed/junk vehicle as set forth in this chapter
to abate the practice forthwith or within a designated time, and if the owner
or occupant of the premises on which the nuisance shall be situated shall
neglect or refuse to remove or correct the same for the space of 24 hours after
the notice is given or within the time specified in the notice, the owner or
occupant shall upon conviction be penalized in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter, and be liable for the expense of removing the nuisance and the
costs of prosecution.
   (B)   If the premises are not occupied and the owner is unknown, the notice
may be served by posting it on the premises. The notice shall specify the steps
to be taken to abate the nuisance and the time, not exceeding 30 days, within
which the nuisance is to be abated; provided the time for abatement shall not
exceed 10 days in the case of noxious weeds.
   (C)   When authorized city personnel determines that a nuisance constitutes
a serious and eminent danger to the public safety or health, they may summarily
abate the nuisance after a reasonable attempt to notify the owner or occupant
of the property. They shall immediately thereafter notify in writing the owner
or occupant of the premises of the action taken. The notice shall be served in
person or by registered or certified mail.
   (D)   When law enforcement determines that a gathering is creating such a
noise disturbance as prohibited under §
95.05, the officer may order all persons present, other than the owner or
tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disburse
immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by
law enforcement. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has knowledge of
the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance
is stopped.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from seeking a judicial
remedy when no other adequate administrative remedy exists.
(Am. Ord. 290, passed 7-2-2001; Am. Ord. 330, passed 4-5-2010; Am. Ord. 336,
passed 6-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10  RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of the premises on which a nuisance has
been abated by the city, or a person who has caused a public nuisance on
property not owned by that person, shall be personally liable for the cost to
the city of the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work
has been completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other city
official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon
the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City
Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, unsound or insect-infected trees, or any portion of §
95.13, the City Clerk shall, on or before September 1 next following abatement
of the nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along with all other such
charges as well. As other charges for current services to be assessed under
M.S. § 429.101 against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges against the property
under that statute and any other pertinent statutes for certification to the
County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in
annual installments, not exceeding 10, as the City Council may determine in
each case.
      (1)   For each certification sustained, the property owner shall have the
following options after the hearing:
         (a)   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll, but
without additional interest after the hearing, within 10 days of the hearing
date;
         (b)   To pay the certified delinquent amount after the hearing date,
but before the county certification deadline, with interest at the rate set in
the adopted rate schedule, accrued beginning on the eleventh day following the
hearing date through the date of payment; or
         (c)   To pay the certified charges as billed to them by Murray County
on their property tax statement with a collection term of 1 year.
      (2)   Fifteen days after the hearing, the certified roll, minus any
payments, shall be delivered to Murray County.
(Am. Ord. 290, passed 7-2-2001; Am. Ord. 330, passed 4-5-2010; Am. Ord. 336,
passed 6-6-2016)
§ 95.11  MAINTENANCE ORDINANCE, GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum
conditions and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures,
equipment and exterior property.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain the
structures and exterior property in compliance with these requirements, except
as otherwise provided for in this chapter. A person shall not occupy as owner-
occupant or permit another person to occupy premises which are not in a
sanitary and safe condition and which do not comply with the requirements of
this section. Occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit
are responsible for keeping it in a clean, sanitary and safe condition that
part of the dwelling unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit or premises which
they occupy and control.
   (C)   Vacant structures and land. All vacant structures and premises thereof
or vacant land shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary
condition as provided herein so as not to cause a blighting problem or
adversely affect the public health or safety.
   (D)   Department of Property Maintenance Inspection. The City Council shall
appoint an individual to serve as ordinance official. That individual shall
have the authority to appoint a deputy, inspectors, and employees as approved
by the City Council.
      (1)   Restriction of employees. The ordinance official or employee
connected with the enforcement of this chapter shall not be engaged in, or
directly or indirectly connected with, the furnishing of labor, materials, or
appliances for the construction, alteration, or maintenance of a building, or
the preparation of construction documents thereof, unless that person is the
owner of the building or property; nor shall such officer or employee engage in
any work that conflicts with official duties or with the interests of the
Department.
      (2)   Liability. The ordinance official, officer, or employee charged
with enforcement of this chapter, while acting for the city, shall not thereby
be rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act
required or permitted in the discharge of official duties. Any suit instituted
against any official, officer, or employee because of an act performed by that
official, officer, or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the
provisions of this chapter shall be defended by the legal representative of the
jurisdiction until the final termination of the proceedings. The ordinance
official or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit or
proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provision of this chapter;
and any official, officer, or employee of the Department of Building Safety,
acting in good faith and without malice, shall be free from liability for acts
performed under any of its provisions or by reason of any act of omission in
the performance of official duties in connection therewith.
   (E)   Duties and power of the ordinance official.
      (1)   General. The ordinance official shall enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
      (2)   Rule-making authority. The ordinance official shall have authority
as necessary in the interest of public health, safety, and general welfare, to
adopt and promulgate rules and procedures; to interpret and implement the
provisions of this chapter; to secure the intent thereof; and to designate
requirements applicable because of local climatic or other conditions. Such
rules shall not have the effect of waiving structural or fire performance
requirements specifically provided for in this chapter, or of violating
accepted engineering methods involving public safety.
      (3)   Inspections. The ordinance official shall make all of the required
inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or
individuals. All reports of such inspections shall be in writing and be
certified by a responsible individual. The ordinance official is authorized to
engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical
issues that arise, subject to the approval of the City Administrator.
      (4)   Right of entry. The ordinance official may enter the structure or
premises as with the approval of the owner to inspect subject to constitutional
restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not
obtained, the ordinance official is authorized to pursue recourse as provided
by Minnesota law.
      (5)   Identification. The ordinance official shall carry proper
identification when inspecting structures and premises in the performance of
duties under this chapter.
      (6)   Notices, orders and citations. The ordinance official shall issue
all necessary notices, orders, and citations to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
      (7)   Department records. The ordinance official shall keep official
records of all business and activities of the Department specified in the
provisions of this chapter. Such records shall be retained in the official
records as long as the building or structure to which the records relate
remains in existence, unless otherwise provided for by other regulations.
      (8)   Coordination of inspections. Whenever in the enforcement of this
chapter or another ordinance, the responsibility of more than 1 ordinance
official of the jurisdiction is involved, it shall be the duty of the ordinance
officials involved to coordinate their inspections and administrative orders as
fully as practicable so that the owners and occupants of the structure shall
not be subjected to visits by numerous inspectors or multiple or conflicting
orders.
   (F)   Approval.
      (1)   Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved
in carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the ordinance official shall
have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided the
ordinance official shall first find that special individual reasons makes the
strict letter of the code impractical and modification does not lessen health,
life, and fire safety requirements. The details of action granting modification
shall be recorded and entered in Department files.
      (2)   Alternative materials, methods, and equipment. The provisions of
this chapter are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to
prohibit any method of construction not specifically prescribed by this
chapter, provided that any such alternative has been approved. An alternative
material or method of construction shall be approved where the ordinance
official finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the
intent of the provisions of this chapter, and that the material, method or work
offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that
prescribed in this chapter in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire
resistance, durability, and safety.
      (3)   Required testing. Whenever there is insufficient evidence on
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, or evidence that a material or
method does not conform to the requirements of this chapter, or in order to
substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the ordinance
official shall have the authority to require tests to be made as evidence of
compliance at no expense to the jurisdiction.
         (a)   Test methods. Test methods shall be as specified in this chapter
or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and
accepted test methods, the ordinance official shall be permitted to approve
appropriate testing procedures performed by an approved agency.
         (b)   Testing agency. All tests shall be performed by an approved
agency.
         (c)   Test reports. Reports of tests shall be retained by the
ordinance official for the period required for retention of records.
      (4)   Materials and equipment reuse. Materials, equipment and devices
shall not be reused unless such elements are in good repair or have been
reconditioned and tested when necessary, placed in good and proper working
condition and approved.
(Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 95.12  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm, corporation or
its agents be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Notice of violation. The ordinance official shall serve written notice
of violation, order or citation in the manner as set forth in §
95.13.
   (C)   Prosecution of violation. Any person failing to comply with a notice
of violation or order shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the
violation shall be deemed a strict liability offense. If the notice of
violation is not complied with, the ordinance official shall institute the
appropriate proceeding at law or equity to restrain, correct, or abate such
violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy
of the structure in violation of the provisions of this chapter or of the order
or direction made pursuant thereto. Any action taken by the authority having
jurisdiction on such premises shall be charged against the real estate upon
which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
   (D)   Violation penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of this
chapter, or fail to comply wherewith, or with any of the requirements thereof,
shall be prosecuted within the limits provided by state or local laws. Each day
that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (E)   Enforcement. The remedies provided in this chapter are not exclusive.
They are in addition to and do no supersede or preempt other remedies such as
injunctive relief, hazardous building condemnation, elimination of public
health and safety hazards under Minnesota Statutes, or criminal charges for
violation of substantive provisions of any city or state ordinance relating to
housing maintenance, health, fire safety, building or zoning. Further, the
remedies in this chapter do not supersede or affect the legal rights or
remedies of tenants provided under state law or other chapter provisions.
   (F)   Abatement of violation. The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from
instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct, or abate a violation, or
to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop
an illegal act, conduct, business, or utilization of the building, structure or
premises.
(Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13  NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Notice to person or persons responsible. Whenever the ordinance
official determines that there has been a violation of this chapter or has
grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, notice shall be given in the
manner prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section to the person or
persons responsible for the violation as specified in this chapter.
   (B)   Form. Such notice prescribed in division (A) of this section shall be
in accordance with all of the following:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued;
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
      (5)   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal;
      (6)   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance with
§
95.04(C); and
      (7)   Include notice that a motion for summary enforcement will be made
to the District Court of Murray County unless corrective action is taken, or
unless an answer is filed within the time specified by the ordinance official.
   (C)   Methods of service. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served
if a copy thereof is:
      (1)   Delivered personally or posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the structure affected by such notice;
      (2)   Sent by certified or first-class mail addressed to the last known
address; or
      (3)   If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be placed in or about the structure affected by
such notice.
   (D)   Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dwelling unit or structure who has received a compliance order or upon whom a
notice of violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or
otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until the
provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied
with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation
issued by the ordinance official and shall furnish to the ordinance official a
signed and notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or
lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or notice of
violation and fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making
the corrections or repairs required by such compliance order or notice of
violation.
(Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14  NUISANCE BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment and composition. A Nuisance Board which shall be
comprised of 3 members, all of whom shall be residents of the city and shall
serve staggered 3-year terms, is hereby established. The members of the initial
Nuisance Board shall serve 1, 2, and 3-year terms respectively. All
appointments for a full term or to fill a vacancy for an unexpired term shall
be made by the Mayor with the approval of the Council and a member may be
removed in the same manner for misconduct or neglect. No more than 1 Council
member shall be a member of the Board. Members shall receive no compensation
for their services, but may be reimbursed for actual and necessary travel
expenses incurred in the discharge of Board duties and activities.
   (B)   Officer and proceedings. The Board shall elect 1 of its members as
Chairperson. The nuisance official's office shall keep an accurate record of
its proceedings. Meetings will be held at the call of the nuisance official
after an owner of real estate in the city requests a hearing to determine if a
nuisance exists on the owner's real estate.
   (C)   Duties. The Nuisance Board shall conduct a hearing, as soon as
practicable, whenever an owner of real estate wants to contest that a nuisance
exists on his or her real estate. The Board may also decide on matters of
enforcement conditions, which includes but is not limited to the amount of time
that an individual will be given to become compliant.
   (D)   The Board shall consider both written and oral testimony at the
hearing. Following the close of the hearing, the Board shall mail its decision
to the owner within 10 business days following the hearing.
   (E)   If the Nuisance Board determines that a nuisance exists, the Board
shall inform the owner by written notice of what is required to abate the
nuisance and the amount of time the owner has to abate the nuisance. The notice
shall also inform the owner that if the nuisance is not abated within the time
specified, the city has the right to abate the nuisance and recover all costs,
including, administrative costs, to abate the nuisance in the manner provided
in §
95.10 or proceed to obtain a Summary Enforcement Order from the District Court.
(Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 95.15  MEANS OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Application for appeal. Any person directly affected by a decision of
the ordinance official or a notice or order issued under this chapter shall
have the right to appeal to the Nuisance Board provided that a written
application for appeal is filed within 10 days after the day the decision,
notice, or order was served. An application for appeal shall be based on a
claim that the true intent of this chapter or the rules legally adopted
hereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this chapter do
not fully apply, or the requirements of this chapter are adequately satisfied
by other means.
   (B)   Disqualification of member. A Board member shall not hear an appeal in
which that member has a personal, professional, or financial interest.
   (C)   Notice of meeting. The Nuisance Board shall meet to hear the appeal
upon proper notice as determined by M.S. Ch. 13D et seq.
   (D)   (1)   Open hearing. All hearings before the Nuisance Board shall be
open to the public. The appellant, the appellant's representative, the
ordinance official, the ordinance official's representative, and any other
person whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
      (2)   Procedure. The Nuisance Board shall adopt and make available to the
public through the City Clerk/Administrator, procedures under which a hearing
will be conducted. The procedures shall not require compliance with strict
rules of evidence, but shall mandate that only relevant information be
received.
   (E)   Nuisance Board decision. The Nuisance Board shall modify or reverse
the decision of the ordinance official only by a vote of a majority of the
total number of Board members.
      (1)   Records and copies. The decision of the Nuisance Board shall be
recorded. Copies shall be furnished to the appellant and to the ordinance
official.
      (2)   Administration. The ordinance official shall take immediate action
in accordance with the decision of the Nuisance Board.
   (F)   Court review. Any person, whether or not a previous party of the
appeal, shall have the right to apply to the appropriate court for a writ of
certiorari to correct errors of law. Application for review shall be made in
the manner and time required by law following the filing of the decision in the
office of the Clerk/Administrator.
   (G)   Stays of enforcement. Appeals of notice and orders (other than
imminent danger notices) shall stay the enforcement of the notice and order
until the appeal is heard by the Nuisance Board.
(Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 95.16  EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   The owner of any premises shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Sanitation. All exterior property areas shall be maintained free from
any accumulation of garbage, mixed municipal solid waste, solid waste, rubbish,
animal feces or refuse;
   (B)   (1)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and
maintained in a manner which, without causing erosion of the soil, allows water
to drain away from occupied structures and which will minimize the accumulation
of water on such premises;
      (2)   Exception. Approved retention areas and reservoirs;
   (C)   Ground cover. Every residential premises shall be maintained in a
condition to control erosion, dust, and mud by suitable landscaping with grass,
trees, shrubs, or other planted ground cover or by paving with asphalt,
concrete, or by such other suitable means which complies with the applicable
provisions of the zoning ordinance;
   (D)   Insect and rodent infestations. It shall be the responsibility of the
owner and the occupant to control or eliminate any infestation of insects,
rodents or other pests in all exterior areas and accessory structures on the
premises;
   (E)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including but not
limited to detached garages, sheds, and fences, shall be maintained
structurally sound and in good repair. All exterior wood surfaces or exterior
surfaces constructed of a material other than wood which needs paint or
protective cover or treatment to protect the surface from the elements, other
than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by
paint which is not lead-based paint or by other protective covering or
treatment. Service doors to residential garages shall be provided with securing
locks. Fences and similar structures constructed within a residential district
shall be constructed of a material sold and designed for such uses. Materials
not permitted for fence construction are detailed in §
95.04(Y);
   (F)   Sidewalks and driveways. All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways,
parking spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and
maintained free from hazardous condition;
   (G)   Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans, or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors, or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant; and
   (H)   Defacement of property. No person shall willfully or wantonly damage,
mutilate, or deface any exterior surface of any structure or building on any
private or public property by placing thereon any marking, carving, or
graffiti. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface
to an approved state of maintenance and repair.
(Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 95.17  EXTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   The owner of any premises shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Foundations, walls, chimneys, roofs, and other exterior surfaces.
Every foundation, chimney, exterior wall, roof, and all other exterior surfaces
shall be maintained in a professional state of maintenance and repair.
      (1)   The foundation elements shall adequately support the building at
all points;
         (a)   All structural members shall be maintained free from
deterioration and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed deal and
live loads; and
         (b)   All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and free from
open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to prevent the
entry of rodents and other pests.
      (2)   Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or
rotting boards or timbers, and any other conditions which might admit dampness
to the interior portions of the wall or to the interior spaces or structures.
      (3)   All exterior wood surfaces or exterior surfaces constructed of a
material other than wood which needs paint or protective cover or treatment to
protect the surface from the elements, other than decay-resistant woods, shall
be protected from the elements and decay by paint which is not lead-based paint
or by other protective covering or treatment.
      (4)   (a)   The roof shall be tight, impervious to water, and have no
defects which admit water or dampness to the interior of the building. No
building roof shall be used for storage of any materials, things, or objects
unless approved by the enforcement officer; and
         (b)   Roof drains, gutters, and downspouts shall be maintained in good
repair and free from obstructions.
      (5)   All exterior surfaces shall be of a material manufactured and
processed specifically for use in a weather-exposed location, including
roofing, exterior painted wood, masonry, exposed redwood and other suitable
materials. Exterior walls shall be maintained and kept free from dilapidation,
including those conditions caused by extensive cracking, tears, or breaks and
by extensively deteriorated plaster, stucco, plastic, brick, wood or other
materials or combinations of materials.
      (6)   The exposed surface of exterior walls on a building above ground
level shall be maintained in a professional state of maintenance and repair,
which will provide both sufficient covering and sufficient protection of the
true surface underneath against its deterioration. Without limiting the
generality of this section, an exposed surface shall be deemed not to be
maintained in a professional state of repair if either of the following
conditions exist:
         (a)   The painted surface area is blistered, cracked, flaked, scaled
or chalked away and such conditions, extend over more than 25% of the surface
area of any plane or wall or area, including porch trim, cornice members, porch
railings and such other areas;
         (b)   More than 10% of the pointing of any masonry chimney or more
than 25% of the pointing of any masonry wall is loose, has fallen out or
otherwise does not exist; and
         (c)   All metal surfaces which can rust or corrode shall be shall be
tight, impervious to water, have no defects which admit water or dampness to
the interior of the building, and be structurally sound.
      (7)   Any exterior surface required to be repaired under provisions of
this section shall be repaired in its entirety to make it weather-tight,
watertight and rodent and insect proof.
   (B)   (1)   Stairs, porches, decks, and railings. Every outside stair and
every porch and deck shall be constructed in a professional manner, shall be
capable of supporting a load, and shall be maintained and kept in a
professional state of maintenance and repair.
      (2)   Stairs, steps, porches, decks, handrails, balustrades, and
guardrails deemed hazardous by the enforcement officer shall be corrected so as
to be in a state of maintenance and repair.
   (C)   Windows, exterior doors, basement hatchways. Every window, exterior
door, and basement hatchway shall be kept weather-tight, watertight and rodent/
insect proof and shall be kept in a professional state of maintenance and
repair.
      (1)   Every window shall be fully supplied with window panes which are
without open cracks or holes.
      (2)   All window screens shall be in good condition and without open
tears or holes.
      (3)   Every window sash shall be in good condition and fit tight within
its frame.
      (4)   Every exterior door, including but not limited to a storm door,
shall have hinges and a latch which shall be in good condition and capable of
keeping the door closed at all times. Every exterior door shall be maintained
in a professional state of maintenance and repair. If the exterior door
requires screens or storm windows, the screens and storm windows shall be
provided and maintained in good condition and without tears or holes.
      (5)   Every exterior door when closed shall fit tightly within its frame.
      (6)   Every window, door and frame shall be constructed and maintained in
such relation to the adjacent wall construction as completely to exclude rain
or similar elements and to substantially exclude wind from entering the
structure.
      (7)   Every basement hatchway and window opening shall be maintained in a
professional state of repair and shall be so constructed and maintained as to
prevent the entrance of rains and surface drainage water into the structure,
prevent the entrance of animals, whether domesticated or non-domesticated, and
shall be rodent-proof and insect-proof.
   (D)   Decorative features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings, and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
   (E)   Overhang extensions. All overhang extensions including but not limited
to canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes, and
exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored so as
to be kept in a sound condition.
(Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 95.18  WATER SYSTEM.
   Supply. The water supply system shall be installed and maintained to provide
a supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices, and appurtenances in
sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function
properly, safely, and free from defects and leaks.
(Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 95.19  SANITARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to either a
public sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
   (B)   Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall
function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
(Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 95.20  STORM DRAINAGE.
   General. Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards, and courts, and other
open areas on the premises shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 95.21  VACANT BUILDINGS.
   The owner of any structure or any part thereof which is vacant for a period
of 60 days or more shall make the premises safe and secure so as to not be
hazardous to the health, safety, and welfare of the public and so as to not
constitute a public nuisance. Any vacant structure open at windows or doors, if
unguarded, shall be deemed to be a hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of
the public and a public nuisance within the meaning of this section and shall
be made safe and secure immediately by boarding the openings. Boarding must be
done with sound materials which are securely fastened to the structure and
painted with a color consistent with the adjacent surfaces. Nonresidential
structures which become vacant must remove exterior signage on the vacant
portions of the structures. The premises of a vacant structure shall be
maintained in an appropriate manner including, but not limited to, mowing of
yard areas; removal of weeds from parking areas, drives, medians, and
landscaping; collections and removal of debris; and watering and maintaining
landscaping and yard. Any vacant structure which has had window or door
openings closed by boarding shall not be reoccupied until such openings have
been secured by proper windows or doors.
(Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 95.22  NONRESIDENTIAL, INDUSTRIAL, COMMERCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL USES.
   In addition to any of the preceding provisions which may be of application
to nonresidential, industrial and institutional uses, the following sections
apply to all such uses. If one of the sections or provisions which follow
conflict with any of the preceding provisions, the provision most favorable to
the expressed intent of this chapter shall apply.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum
conditions and responsibilities of owners or occupants of commercial property
for the maintenance of structures, equipment and exterior property.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner or occupants of the commercial premises
shall maintain the structures and exterior property in compliance with this
chapter. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person
to occupy premises which are not in a sanitary and safe condition and which do
not comply with the requirements of this section. Owner or occupants of a
commercial premises are responsible for maintaining the premises in a clean,
sanitary and safe condition.
   (C)   Sanitation. All exterior property areas shall be maintained free from
any accumulation of refuse, municipal solid waste, solid waste, rubbish,
garbage, litter, animal feces, or refuse.
   (D)   Insect and rodent infestations. It shall be the responsibility of the
owner to exterminate any infestation of rodents, insects, vermin, or other
pests in all exterior areas and accessory structures on the premises.
   (E)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including but not
limited to detached garages, sheds, and fences, shall be structurally sound and
maintained in good repair. All exterior surfaces shall be maintained in a state
of good repair.
   (F)   Stored materials. It shall be unlawful to accumulate and store
building material, lumber, boxes, cartons, or other containers, machinery,
scrap metal, junk, raw material, fabricated goods and other items in such
manner as to constitute a nuisance or rodent harborage.
   (G)   Obscuring fences.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to maintain outdoor storage abutting a
residential district or a property occupied by a 1, 2, 3, or 4 dwelling unit,
townhouse or multiple-family dwelling which constitutes a nuisance. Upon a
determination that a violation of this section exists, the enforcement officer
may cause the nuisance to be abated by requiring the installation of a 6 foot
high obscuring fence or landscape screening at an equal or lesser cost than a
fence.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a notarized petition alleging the existence of a
public nuisance and signed by 2/3 of the property owners located in an area 1
block in any direction of the subject property, the enforcement officer shall
inspect the property. In the event the enforcement officer determines that the
outdoor storage constitutes a violation, the enforcement officer may cause the
nuisance to be abated by requiring the installation of a 6 foot high obscuring
fence or appropriate landscape screening.
   (H)   Refrigerators and accessible containers. It shall be unlawful to
permit a refrigerator or other container, sufficiently large to retain a child
and with doors which fasten automatically when closed, to be exposed and
accessible to children without removing the doors, lids, hinges or latches.
   (I)   Foundations, walls, roofs and other exterior surfaces. Every
foundation, exterior wall, roof and all other exterior surfaces shall be
maintained in a professional state of maintenance and repair.
      (1)   The foundation elements shall adequately support the building at
all points.
      (2)   Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or
rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions which admit dampness to the
interior portions of the walls or to the interior spaces.
      (3)   All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-resistant woods and
previously painted non-wood surfaces, shall be protected from the elements and
decay by paint which is not lead-based paint or by other protective covering or
treatment.
      (4)   The roof shall be tight and have no defects which admit rain and
roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent rainwater from causing dampness in
the walls.
   (J)   Windows, doors and hatchways. Every window, exterior door and basement
hatchway shall be substantially tight and shall be kept in sound condition and
repair.
      (1)   Windows shall be fully supplied with windowpanes which are without
open cracks or holes, sashes shall be in sound condition and fit reasonably
tight within the frame.
      (2)   Every exterior door and its hardware shall be in sound condition
and fit reasonably well within its frame.
      (3)   Every basement hatchway shall be so constructed and maintained as
to prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water into the
structure.
   (K)   Sidewalks and driveways. All sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking
spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair and
maintained free from hazardous conditions.
   (L)   Motor vehicles. No inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicles or junk
vehicles shall be parked, kept, or stored on any commercial premises and no
vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in
the process of being stripped and dismantled unless such unlicensed or
inoperable vehicles are on the premises of junk yards and automobile graveyards
that are defined, maintained, and licensed in accordance with state law.
   (M)   Dangerous machinery. Accumulation of discarded or disused, dangerous
machinery, automobile bodies, or other material or equipment in a manner
creating fire or safety hazards from such accumulation.
   (N)   Other materials. All materials not intended for or a part of
landscaping or functionability of the property shall be stored inside a
structure suitable for storage or concealed from public view.
   (O)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm, corporation or
its agents to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter.
   (P)   Notice of violation. The ordinance official shall serve notice of
violation, order or citation in accordance with §
95.13.
   (Q)   Prosecution of violation. Any person failing to comply with a notice
of violation or order served in accordance with §
95.13 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the violation shall be
deemed a strict liability offense. If the notice of violation is not complied
with, the ordinance official shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law
or equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the
removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation
of the provisions of this chapter or of the order or direction made pursuant
thereto. Any action taken by the authority having jurisdiction on such premises
shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located
and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
   (R)   Violation penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of this
chapter, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and prosecuted within the limits provided by
state or local laws. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (S)   Enforcement. The remedies provided in this chapter are not exclusive.
They are in addition to and do not supersede or preempt other remedies such as
injunctive relief, hazardous building condemnation, elimination of public
health and safety hazards under Minnesota Statutes, or criminal charges for
violation of substantive provisions of any city or state ordinance relating to
housing maintenance, health, fire safety, building or zoning. Further, the
remedies in this chapter do not supersede or affect the legal rights or
remedies of the tenants provided under state law or other ordinance provisions.
   (T)   Abatement of violation. The imposition of the penalties herein
described in this chapter shall not preclude the legal officer of the
jurisdiction from instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate
a violation, or to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or
premises, or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the
building, structure or premises.
(Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
95.99
ABANDONED VEHICLES; UNCLAIMED AND EXCESS PROPERTY
§ 95.30  DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Findings and purpose.  M.S. Chapter 168B and Minnesota Rules Chapter 7035,
as they may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference. 
Sections
95.01 through
95.09 and §§
95.30 and
95.31 are adopted under the authority of M.S. § 168B.09 Subdivision 2, as it
may be amended from time to time.  If any of theses provisions are less
stringent than the provisions of M.S. Chapter 168B or Minnesota Rules Chapter
7035, as it may be amended from time to time, the statute or rule shall take
precedence.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle as defined in M.S. § 169.011, as
it may be amended from time to time, that:
         (a)   Has remained illegally for a period of more than 48 hours on any
property owned or controlled by a unit of government, or more than 4 hours on
that property when it is properly posted; or on private property for a period
of time, as determined under M.S. § 168B.04 Subdivision 2, without consent of
the person in control of the property; and
         (b)   Lacks vital component parts, it in an inoperable condition, or
has no substantial potential for further use consistent with its usual
functions, unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building.
         (c)   A classic car or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. § 168.10 as it
may be amended from time to time, it not considered an abandoned vehicle.
         (d)   Vehicles on the premises of junk yards and automobile graveyards
that are defined, maintained, and licensed in accordance with M.S. § 161.242 as
it may be amended from time to time, or that are licensed and maintained in
accordance with local laws and zoning regulations, are not considered abandoned
vehicles.
         (e)   A vehicle being held for storage by agreement or being held
under police authority or pursuant to a writ or court order is not considered
abandoned, nor may it be processed as abandoned while the police hold, writ, or
court order is in effect.
      VITAL COMPONENT PARTS.  Those parts of a motor vehicle that are essential
to the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including, but not limited to,
the motor, transmission and wheels.
   (B)   Custody. The city may take into custody and impound any abandoned
motor vehicle.
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   The city shall give notice of the taking within 10 days.
      (2)   The notice shall set forth the date and place of the taking, the
year, make, model and serial number of the abandoned motor vehicle, if that
information can be reasonably obtained, and the place where the vehicle is
being held, shall inform the owner and any lien holders of their right to
reclaim the vehicle under division (D) below, and shall state that failure of
the owner or lien holder to exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle and
contents shall be deemed a waiver by them of all rights, title and interest in
the vehicle and a consent to the sale of the vehicle and contents at a public
auction pursuant to division (E) below.
      (3)   The notice shall be sent by registered mail to the registered
owner, if any, of the abandoned motor vehicle and to all readily identifiable
lien holders of record.
      (4)   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the
identity and address of the registered owner and all lien holders, the notice
shall be published once in the official newspaper. Published notices may be
grouped together for convenience and economy.
   (D)   Right to reclaim.
      (1)   The owner or any lien holder of an abandoned motor vehicle shall
have a right to reclaim that vehicle from the city upon payment of all towing
and storage charges resulting from taking the vehicle into custody within 15
days after the date of the notice required by this section.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair any lien of a
garage keeper under the laws of this state, or the right of the lien holder to
foreclose.
      (3)   For the purposes of this division (D), GARAGE KEEPER is an operator
of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor vehicle storage
facility, or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
   (E)   Public sale.
      (1)   An abandoned motor vehicle and contents taken into custody and not
reclaimed under division (D) above shall be sold to the highest bidder at
public auction or sale, following 1 notice published at least 7 days prior to
the auction or sale.
      (2)   The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles, which shall be sufficient title to dispose of the
vehicle.
      (3)   The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the
vehicle and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and
claims of ownership. Before a vehicle is issued a new certificate of title, it
must receive a motor vehicle safety check.
      (4)   From the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor vehicle, the
city shall reimburse itself for the cost of towing, preserving and storing the
vehicle, and all administrative, notice and publication costs incurred pursuant
to this subchapter.
      (5)   Any remainder from the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the
owner of the vehicle or entitled lien holder for 90 days and then shall be
deposited in the general fund of the city.
   (F)   Disposal of vehicles not sold. Where no bid has been received for an
abandoned motor vehicle, the city may dispose of it in accordance with this
section.
   (G)   Contracts and disposal.
      (1)   The city may contract with any qualified person for collection,
storage, incineration, volume reduction, transportation or other services
necessary to prepare abandoned motor vehicles and other scrap metal for
recycling or other methods of disposal.
      (2)   Where the city enters into a contract with a person duly licensed
by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, the Agency shall review the contract
to determine whether it conforms to the Agency’s plan for solid waste disposal.
A contract that does so conform may be approved by the Agency. Where a contract
has been approved, the Agency may reimburse the city for the costs incurred
under the contract that have not been reimbursed.
      (3)   If the city utilizes its own equipment and personnel for disposal
of the abandoned motor vehicle, it shall be entitled to reimbursement for the
cost thereof along with its other costs as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 11.301)  (Am. Ord. 330, passed 4-5-2010; Am. Ord. 336, passed 6-
6-2016)
§ 95.31  UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ABANDONED PROPERTY.  Tangible or intangible property that has lawfully
come into the possession of the city in the course of municipal operations,
remains unclaimed by the owner, and has been in the possession of the city for
at least 60 days and has been declared so by a resolution of the Council.
   (B)   Preliminary notice.
      (1)   If the City Clerk/Administrator knows the identity and whereabouts
of the owner, he or she shall serve written notice upon him or her at least 30
days prior to a declaration of abandonment by the Council.
      (2)   If the city acquired possession from a prior holder, the identity
and whereabouts of whom are known by the City Clerk/Administrator notice shall
also be served upon him or her.
      (3)   The notice shall describe the property and state that unless it is
claimed and proof of ownership, or entitlement to possession established, the
matter of declaring it abandoned property will be brought to the attention of
the Council after the expiration of 30 days from the date of the notice.
   (C)   Notice and sale.
      (1)   Upon adoption of a resolution declaring certain property to be
abandoned property, the City Clerk/Administrator shall publish a notice thereof
describing the same, together with the names (if known) and addresses (if
known) of prior owners and holders thereof, and including a brief description
of the property.
      (2)   The text of the notice shall also state the time, place and manner
of sale of all property, except cash and negotiables.
      (3)   The notice shall be published once at least 3 weeks prior to sale.
Sale shall be made to the highest bidder at public auction or sale conducted in
the manner directed by the Council in its resolution declaring property
abandoned and stated in the notice.
   (D)   Fund and claims thereon.
      (1)   All proceeds from the sale shall be paid into the general fund of
the city and expenses thereof paid therefrom.
      (2)   The former owner, if he or she makes claim within 8 months from the
date of publication of the notice herein provided, and upon application and
satisfactory proof of ownership, may be paid the amount of cash or negotiables
or, in the case of property sold, the amount received therefor, less a pro rata
share of the expenses of storage, publication of notice, and sale expenses, but
without interest.
      (3)   The payment shall be also made from the general fund.
(Prior Code, § 11.302)  (Am. Ord. 330, passed 4-5-2010; Am. Ord. 336, passed 6-
6-2016)
§ 95.32  EXCESS PROPERTY; DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Declaration of surplus and authorizing sale of property. The City
Clerk/Administrator may, from time to time, recommend to the Council that
certain personal property (chattels) owned by the city is no longer needed for
a municipal purpose and should be sold. By action of the Council, the property
shall be declared surplus, the value estimated and the City Clerk/Administrator
authorized to dispose of the property in the manner stated herein.
   (B)   Surplus property with a total estimated value of less than $100. The
City Clerk/Administrator may sell surplus property with a total value of less
than $100 through negotiated sale.
   (C)   Surplus property with a total estimated value between $100 and $500.
      (1)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall offer for public sale, to the
highest bidder, surplus property with a total estimated value of from $100 to
$500.
      (2)   Notice of the public sale shall be given stating time and place of
sale and generally describing the property to be sold at least 10 days prior to
the date of sale either by publication once in the official newspaper, or by
posting in a conspicuous place in the City Hall at the City Clerk/
Administrator’s option.
      (3)   The sale shall be by auction.
   (D)   Surplus property with a total estimated value over $500.
      (1)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall offer for public sale, to the
highest bidder, surplus property with a total estimated value over $500.
      (2)   Notice of the public sale shall be given stating time and place of
sale and generally describing property to be sold at least 10 days prior to the
date of sale by publication once in the official newspaper.
      (3)   The sale shall be to the person submitting the highest bid.
   (E)   Receipts from sales of surplus property. All receipts from sales of
surplus property under this section shall be placed in the general fund.
(Prior Code, § 11.303) (Am. Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 95.33  PERSONS WHO MAY NOT PURCHASE; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No employee of the city, who is a member of the administrative staff,
is a department head, a member of the Council, or an advisor serving the city
in a professional capacity, may be a purchaser of property under this section.
Other city employees may be purchasers if they are not directly involved in the
sale, if they are the highest responsible bidder, and if at least 1-week’s
published or posted notice of sale is given.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to be a purchaser of property under this
section if the purchase is prohibited by the terms of this section.
(Prior Code, 11.304) (Am. Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, plus the costs of prosecution
in either case.
(Ord. 336, passed 6-6-2016)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND TOBACCO
   
111.   AMUSEMENT AND ENTERTAINMENT
   
112.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
   
114.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 110:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND TOBACCO
Section
Consumption of Intoxicating Liquor on Public Lands
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Violations
   
110.03   Special permit
Sale and Consumption of Intoxicating Liquor
   
110.15   Abolishment of municipal liquor store
   
110.16   Provisions of state law adopted
   
110.17   License required
   
110.18   Application for license
   
110.19   Granting of licenses
   
110.20   License fees
   
110.21   Persons ineligible for license
   
110.22   Places ineligible for license
   
110.23   Conditions of license
   
110.24   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
110.25   Suspension and revocation
Tobacco Products
   
110.40   Purpose
   
110.41   Definitions
   
110.42   License required
   
110.43   Application and issuance
   
110.44   License fee
   
110.45   Licenses shall be displayed
   
110.46   Restrictions
   
110.47   Responsibility for agents and employees
   
110.48   Employee notification
   
110.49   Compliance checks
   
110.50   Appeal
   
110.51   Revocation of license
   
110.52   Misdemeanor prosecution
Statutory reference:
   Liquor act, see M.S. §§ 340A.101 et seq.
CONSUMPTION OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR ON PUBLIC LANDS
§ 110.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   3.2% MALT LIQUOR.  Any malt liquor containing not less than 1/2 of 1%
alcohol by volume or more than 3.2% by weight and is a fermented malt beverage.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR.  Ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented,
spirituous, vinous and malt beverages containing in excess of 3.2% of alcohol
by weight.
   OPEN BOTTLE.
      (1)   Any bottle or receptacle containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2%
malt liquor except an original container, bottle or receptacle which seal has
never been broken or opened.
      (2)   Any glass or other receptacle or whatever composition into which
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor has been poured and is contained is an
OPEN BOTTLE.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any land owned by any governmental unit or over which any
governmental unit has easement, including but not limited to streets, alleys,
sidewalks, parks, parking areas.
(Prior Code, § 4.101)
§ 110.02   VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   From and after the passage of this chapter, no person shall drink
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor on any public place within the City of
Slayton, not in any motorized vehicle or any passenger carrying appurtenance
attached thereto, including but not limited to trailers or campers attached to
pick-up trucks or any other type of motorized vehicle while the vehicle is on a
public place.
   (B)   No person shall have in his or her possession on his or her person any
bottle or receptacle containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor which
has been opened, or the seal broken, or the contents of which have been
partially removed.
(Prior Code, § 4.102) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.03   SPECIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   The City of Slayton may issue special permits to allow the
possession and consumption of intoxicating beverage in cans or plastic
receptacles in or upon any of the above mentioned publicly owned property.
      (2)   The Slayton City Council may adopt a set of guidelines and criteria
for the issuance of like permits allowing those permits to be issued by the
City Clerk/Administrator or Deputy Clerk as an administrative action.
      (3)   Any like permits so issued shall specify the particular publicly
owned property the permit applies to, the time frame in which the permit
applies and the group or activity for which the permit is issued. The City
Council may by its guidelines or direct actions impose limitations and
conditions upon the possession and consumption of intoxicating beverages for
each permit issued as the City Council deems necessary.
   (B)   The permit shall describe with specificity the conditions under which
the permit is issued and shall include the following information:
      (1)   The public place to which the permit pertains;
      (2)   The person or persons to whom the permit is issued; and
      (3)   Any other conditions or restrictions that the City Council shall
deem necessary to adequately provide for the public welfare and safety,
including restrictions relative to the type of beverage that may be consumed
and the hours during which the beverage may be consumed.
   (C)   Any violation of the conditions imposed on the permit under division
(B) above shall be cause for the automatic revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Any person to whom a permit is issued who shall fail to comply with
any conditions imposed under division (B) above shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be liable for any damages to property resulting from that
failure.
   (E)   The provisions of this chapter shall not restrict the Slayton Country
Club from allowing the possession and consumption of intoxicating beverages by
its patrons within the limits of the Slayton Country Club golf course.
   (F)   Persons other than to those to whom a permit is issued upon revocation
or expiration of the permit, shall not be deemed to be in violation of §
110.02 above if that person has no knowledge or is unaware of the revocation or
expiration.
(Prior Code, § 4.103) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
SALE AND CONSUMPTION OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 110.15   ABOLISHMENT OF MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORE.
   The municipal liquor store of the City of Slayton was abolished pursuant to
the desires of the City Council of the City of Slayton.
(Prior Code, § 4.201)
§ 110.16   PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption, sales, conditions
of bonds of licenses, hours of sale, and all other matters pertaining to the
retail sale, distribution and consumption of intoxicating liquor are adopted
and made a part of this chapter, as if set out in full, and shall be
controlling, except for any modification of definition or provisions contained
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.301)
§ 110.17   LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   General requirement.
      (1)   No person, except a wholesaler or manufacturer to the extent
authorized under state license, shall directly or indirectly deal in, sell or
keep for sale in the city any intoxicating liquor without a license to do so as
provided in this chapter.
      (2)   Intoxicating liquor licenses shall be of 5 kinds:
         (a)   On-sale;
         (b)   Off-sale;
         (c)   On-sale wine;
         (d)   Special club; and
         (e)   Sunday on-sale licenses.
   (B)   On-sale licenses. On-sale licenses shall be issued only to hotels,
clubs, restaurants and exclusive liquor stores and shall permit on-sale of
liquor only.
   (C)   Off-sale licenses.
      (1)   Off-sale licenses shall be issued only to exclusive liquor stores
and shall permit off-sale of liquor only. No off-sale license approved by the
City Council will become effective until it has also been approved by the
Commissioner of Public Safety.
      (2)   Applicants for off-sale licenses shall be required to have a
separate area for the display and sale of liquor which is not directly
accessible to an on-sale facility. Holders of off-sale licenses shall be
required to comply with all applicable state laws and regulations.
   (D)   On-sale wine licenses.
      (1)   On-sale wine licenses shall be issued only to restaurants meeting
the qualifications of M.S.A. § 340A.404, Subd. 5 (as amended from time to
time), and shall permit only the sale of wine not exceeding 14% alcohol by
volume, for consumption on the licensed premises only, in conjunction with the
sale of food.
      (2)   The licenses, when issued under this division, shall not count
against the maximum number of on-sale licenses to be issued by the city. No on-
sale wine license approved by the City Council shall become effective until it
also has been approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (E)   Special club licenses.
      (1)   Special club licenses shall be issued only to incorporated clubs
which have been in existence for 3 years or more or to congressionally
chartered veterans’ organizations which have been in existence for 3 years.
      (2)   This license shall be for the sale of intoxicating liquor to
members and bona fide guests only. The license when issued under this division
shall not count against the maximum number of on-sale licenses to be issued by
the city.
      (3)   To qualify for a license under this division (E), each like club or
veterans organization hereby agrees that only those guests shall be allowed in
the club who are invited and accompanied by a member and that no employees of
the club, whether members or not, consisting of bartenders, waitresses or
managers can be the inviting member.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale licenses.
      (1)   Sunday on-sale licenses shall be issued only to restaurants, clubs
and hotels and shall permit on-sale of liquor for consumption on the premises
in conjunction with the sale of food between the hours of 12:00 p.m. on Sundays
and 1:00 a.m. on Mondays.
      (2)   To qualify for a license a restaurant, club or hotel must have a
seating capacity for at least 30 persons and hold an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license permitting on-sale of liquor during lawful hours for the days
Monday through Saturday.
(Prior Code, § 4.302) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.18   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license shall be in the form prescribed
by the Commissioner of Public Safety and applicant shall furnish other
information as the City Council may require. No person shall make a false
statement in an application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility; insurance requirement. Prior to the issuance
of a liquor license, the applicant must comply with the requirements of M.S. §
340A.409 (as amended from time to time) in demonstrating proof of financial
responsibility with regard to liability imposed by M.S. § 340A.801 (as amended
from time to time).
   (C)   Approval of security.
      (1)   The security offered under division (B) above shall be approved by
the City Council and in the case of an applicant for an off-sale license or an
on-sale wine license, by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      (2)   Surety bonds and liability insurance policies shall be approved as
to form by the City Attorney. Operation of a licensed business without having
on file with the city at all times effective security as required in division
(B) above is a cause for revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 4.303) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.19   GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation.
      (1)   On an initial application for an on-sale license and an application
for transfer of an existing on-sale license, the applicant shall pay with his
or her application an investigation fee as set out in §
33.15 and the city shall conduct a preliminary background and financial
investigation of the applicant.
      (2)   The application in that case shall be made on a form prescribed by
the State Bureau of Criminal Apprehension and with additional information as
the City Council may require.
      (3)   If the City Council deems it in the public interest to have an
investigation made on a particular application for renewal of an on-sale
license, it shall so determine. In any case, if the City Council determines
that a comprehensive background and financial investigation of the applicant is
necessary, it may conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Bureau
of Criminal Investigation for the investigation.
      (4)   If an investigation outside the state is required, the applicant
shall be charged the actual cost not to exceed the amount set out in §
33.15, which shall be paid by the applicant after deducting any initial
investigation fee already paid. The fee shall be payable by the applicant
whether or not the license is granted.
   (B)   Issuance.
      (1)   The City Council shall investigate all facts set out in the
application and not investigated in the preliminary background and financial
investigation conducted pursuant to division (A) above.
      (2)   Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or against
the granting of the license. After the investigation is complete, the Council
shall, in its discretion, grant or refuse the application.
      (3)   No license will be issued, transferred or renewed if the results of
the investigation show to the satisfaction of the City Council, that issuance,
transfer or renewal would not be in the public interest.
   (C)   Persons and premises licensed; transfers.
      (1)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant, and for the
premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to another
person or place without City Council approval.
      (2)   Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed a transfer
of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval is a
ground for revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 4.304)
§ 110.20   LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Fees. The annual fees for liquor licenses shall be a maximum of the
amount set out in §
33.15for an on-sale license, the amount set out in §
33.15 for an off-sale license, the amount set out in §
33.15 for an on-sale wine license, the amount set out in §
33.15 for a special club license and the amount set out in §
33.15 for a “Sunday on-sale” license, or lower fees as are from time to time
set and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Application. Each application for an on-sale, off-sale, on-sale wine,
special club or Sunday on-sale license shall be accompanied by a receipt from
the City Clerk/Administrator for payment in full of the license fee. All fees
shall be paid into the general fund. If an application for a license is
rejected, the Clerk/Administrator shall refund the amount paid.
   (C)   Pro-rata fee.
      (1)   Each license, except part-year seasonal licenses, shall be issued
for a period of 1 year, except that if the application is made during the
license year, a license may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro-
rata fee, with any unexpired fraction of a month being counted as 1 month.
      (2)   Every like license issued shall expire on the last day of March.
      (3)   Part-year seasonal licenses for seasonal businesses may be issued
to eligible applicants for a pro-rata fee based on the number of months in a
license year the applicant is open for business, with any unexpired fraction of
a month being counted as one month.
   (D)   Refunds. No refund of any fee shall be made except as authorized by
statute.
(Prior Code, § 4.305)
§ 110.21   PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted to any person made ineligible for a license by
state law.
(Prior Code, § 4.306)
§ 110.22   PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   General prohibition. No license shall be issued for any place of
business ineligible for a license under state law.
   (B)   Delinquent taxes and charges. No license shall be granted for
operation on any premises on which taxes, assessments or other financial claims
of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (C)   Restaurant minimum seating capacity. No on-sale license shall be
issued to a restaurant unless the establishment has facilities for seating at
least 30 guests at 1 time.
   (D)   Exclusive liquor stores; authorized operation.
      (1)   An exclusive liquor store shall be considered to be an
establishment as defined by M.S. § 340A.101 Subd. 10 (as amended from time to
time), and shall be authorized, if properly licensed, to sell food for
consumption on the premises.
      (2)   Any like licensee must qualify with the provisions of division (C)
above, as to minimum seating capacity.
   (E)   Distance from school or church. No license shall be granted for a
premises within 300 feet of any school, or within 300 feet of any church.
(Prior Code, § 4.307)
§ 110.23   CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   In general. Every license is subject to the conditions in the
following divisions, and all other provisions of this chapter, and of any other
applicable chapter, state law or regulation.
   (B)   Licensee’s responsibility.
      (1)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of his or her place
of business and the conditions of sobriety and order in it.
      (2)   The act of any employee on the licensed premises authorized to sell
intoxicating liquor there is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the
licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law,
equally with the employee.
   (C)   Inspections. Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health
officer or properly designated officer or employee of the city to enter,
inspect and search the premises of the licensee during business hours without a
warrant.
   (D)   Display during prohibited hours. No on-sale establishment shall
display liquor to the public during hours when the sale of liquor is
prohibited.
   (E)   Federal stamps. No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale liquor
dealer’s special tax stamp or federal gambling stamp.
(Prior Code, § 4.308) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.24   RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Liquor in unlicensed places. No person shall mix or prepare liquor for
consumption in any public place or place of business unless it has a license to
sell liquor on-sale or a permit from the Commissioner of Public Safety under
M.S. § 340A.414 (as amended from time to time) and no person shall consume
liquor in any like place.
   (B)   Consumption in public places. No person shall consume liquor on a
public highway, public park, or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 4.309) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.25   SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council may either suspend for not to exceed 60 days, or revoke
any liquor license upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply with
any applicable statute, regulation or chapter relating to intoxicating liquor.
   (B)   No suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has
been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69
(as amended from time to time).
(Prior Code, § 4.310)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS
§ 110.40   PURPOSE.
   Because the city recognizes that many persons under the age of 18 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco related devices, and like sales, possession and use are violations of
both state and federal laws; and because studies have shown that most smokers
begin smoking before they have reached the age of 18 years and that those
persons who reach the age of 18 years without having started smoking are
significantly less likely to begin smoking; and because smoking has been shown
to be the cause of several serious health problems which subsequently place a
financial burden on all levels of government; part of this chapter shall be
intended to regulate the sale, possession and use of tobacco, tobacco products
and tobacco related devices for the purpose of enforcing and furthering
existing laws, to protect minors against the serious effects associated with
the illegal use of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices, and
to further the official public policy of the State of Minnesota in regard to
preventing young people from starting to smoke as stated in M.S. § 144.391, as
it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 4.401)
§ 110.41   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING.  Open display of tobacco related products which
are accessible to the public without the intervention of an employee. Included
are single packs, multiple packs, half cartons, full cartons, individual or
multiple bags of tobacco for rolling, and individual or multiple containers of
tobacco for chewing, smoking, sniffing and other tobacco related activities.
   TOBACCO RELATED PRODUCT.  Cigarettes, cigars, cheroots, stogies, perique,
grandulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready, rubbed or other smoking tobacco,
snuff, snuff flower, cavendish, plug and twist tobacco, fine cut and other
chewing tobacco, shorts, refuse, scrips, clippings, cutting and sweepings of
tobacco prepared in a manner so as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing or
smoking in a pipe, rolling paper or other tobacco related devices.
   VENDING MACHINE.  Any mechanical, electrical or electronic device, appliance
or any other medium or object designated or used for vending purposes which
upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses tobacco
products.
(Prior Code, § 4.402)
§ 110.42   LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall directly or indirectly or by means of any device keep for
retail sale, sell at retail or otherwise dispense any tobacco related product
at any place in the city unless a license therefor shall first have been
obtained as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.403) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.43   APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Application for a license shall be made to the Clerk/Administrator on
a form supplied by the city.
   (B)   The application shall state the full name and address of the
applicant, the location of the building and the part intended to be used by the
applicant under the license, the kind of business conducted at that location
and other information as shall be required by the application form.
   (C)   Upon the filing of the application with the Clerk/Administrator and
payment of the required fee, it shall be presented to the City Council for its
consideration, and if granted by the City Council, the license shall be issued
by the Clerk/Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 4.404)
§ 110.44   LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The fee for every license shall be a sum fixed by ordinance of the
City Council. Every license shall expire on December 31, next, after its
issuance.
   (B)   Licenses shall not be transferable from one person to another.
(Prior Code, § 4.405)
§ 110.45   LICENSES SHALL BE DISPLAYED.
   Every license shall be kept conspicuously posted about the place for which
the license is issued and shall be exhibited to any person upon request.
(Prior Code, § 4.406) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.46   RESTRICTIONS.
   The following restrictions shall apply to each licensee, and the premises
licensed hereunder.
   (A)   Age limit. No person or licensee shall sell or give away any tobacco,
tobacco paper or tobacco wrapper to any person below the age of 18 years.
   (B)   Specific location for sales. No license shall be issued to any
applicant for the sale of cigarettes or cigarette wrappers at any place other
than at the applicant’s established place of business.
   (C)   Permanent location.
      (1)   One license per business.
      (2)   No license shall be issued for the sale of cigarettes or cigarette
wrappers at any moveable place of business and no license shall be issued for
the sale of tobacco at more than 1 place of business.
   (D)   Self-help prohibited.
      (1)   All sales of tobacco related products must be made in a manner that
requires the purchaser to specifically ask a clerk for the tobacco-related
product in compliance with division (G) below.
      (2)   All other sales of tobacco related products, including self-service
merchandising vending machines and other mechanical devices, are unlawful.
   (E)   Use of vending machine illegal. No person shall install, set up or
keep any vending machine or other mechanical device for the sale of tobacco
related products with the intent to sell the items by that method.
   (F)   Customers to provide proof of age. Every person selling any tobacco
related products to any person who appears to be under the legal age must
require proof of age by 1 of the following:
      (1)   A valid driver’s license or identification card issued by
Minnesota, another state or a province of Canada and including the photograph
and date of birth of the licensed person;
      (2)   A valid military identification card issued by the United States
Department of Defense; or
      (3)   In the case of a foreign national, from a nation other than Canada,
a valid passport.
   (G)   Compliance date for self-help products. All self-service tobacco
products shall be located behind a service counter or locked doors by July 1,
1999, provided that for cartons of tobacco products, all self-service shall be
so located by October 1, 1999.
(Prior Code, § 4.407) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.47   RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Every act or omission constituting a violation of the provisions of this
chapter by an officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any
licensee shall be deemed and held punishable in the same manner as if the
licensee personally committed the act or omission.
(Prior Code, § 4.408) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.48   EMPLOYEE NOTIFICATION.
   Annually, and for each new hire, every licensee shall provide all clerks who
sell tobacco related products for that licensee a summary of state laws and
penalties related to sales of tobacco. The licensee shall maintain records of
compliance with this provision containing signatures of all like clerks.
(Prior Code, § 4.409)
§ 110.49   COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   (A)   The license holder will be subject to compliance checks. At least 2
times every year law enforcement personnel or persons designated by law
enforcement shall conduct random, unannounced inspections of licensees to test
compliance with age-of-sale laws.
   (B)   These inspections shall include, but not be limited to, surveillance
including minors under the age of 18 who attempt to purchase tobacco products.
   (C)   A finding of noncompliance during a like unannounced inspection shall
constitute a violation of this section. Additional compliance checks during the
license year shall be required following a violation by any licensed retail
tobacco outlet.
(Prior Code, § 4.410) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.50   APPEAL.
   (A)   Notice.
      (1)   If the City Council suspends or revokes a license, or the city
imposes an administrative penalty, the City Clerk/Administrator shall send to
the licensee, or clerk/seller, as the case may be, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, written notice of the action and the rights of the appeal.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent to the licensee, or clerk/seller, at least
10 days in advance of the effective date of any suspension or revocation and
shall specify the chapter or statutory violation alleged. The aggrieved party
may appeal the decision within 10 days of receiving notice of the city’s
action.
      (3)   The filing of any appeal stays the action until the appeal is
heard. If no appeal is filed within 10 days, the action of the City Council
shall be final.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   The City Council may appoint a committee of the Council or an
independent hearing officer to hear the appeal, report the findings of fact and
make a recommendation for the disposition to the Council.
      (2)   Hearings on the appeal shall be open to the public and the licensee
or clerk/seller may be represented by legal counsel and offer evidence on its
behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall make a final
decision.
(Prior Code, § 4.411)
§ 110.51   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Every license may be revoked by the City Council for violation of any
provision of this chapter or for the violation of any of the laws of the state
governing the sale of cigarettes, if the licensee has been given a reasonable
notice and an opportunity to be heard as set out in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.412)
§ 110.52   MISDEMEANOR PROSECUTION.
   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from seeking prosecution as
a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of this section. If the city elects to
seek misdemeanor prosecution no administrative penalty shall be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 4.414)
CHAPTER 111:  AMUSEMENT AND ENTERTAINMENT
Section
Gambling
   
111.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
111.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
111.03   Purpose
   
111.04   Definitions
   
111.05   Applicability
   
111.06   Lawful gambling permitted
   
111.07   Council approval
   
111.08   Application and local approval of premises permits
   
111.09   Local permits
   
111.10   Revocation and suspension of local permit
   
111.11   License and permit display
   
111.12   Notification of material changes to application
   
111.13   Contribution of net profits to fund administered by city
   
111.14   Designated trade area
   
111.15   Records and reporting
   
111.16   Hours of operation
   
111.17   Severability
Swimming Pool
   
111.40   Authorized uses
   
111.41   Alcoholic beverages
   
111.42   Smoking
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances, see
Ch. 95
GAMBLING
§ 111.01   ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 349, as they may be amended from time to
time, with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
provisions relating to sales, and all other matters pertaining to lawful
gambling, are hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this chapter
as if set out in full.  It is the intention of the Council that all future
amendments of M.S. Ch. 349 are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if
they had been in existence at the time this chapter was adopted.
§ 111.02   CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 349.213, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on gambling within its limits beyond those contained in
M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 111.03   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the city,
to prevent its commercialization, to ensure the integrity of operations, and to
provide for the use of net profits only for lawful purposes.
§ 111.04   DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 349.12, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   BOARD.  The State of Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   LICENSED ORGANIZATION. An organization licensed by the Board.
   LOCAL PERMIT.  A permit issued by the city.
   TRADE AREA.  This city and each city and township contiguous to this city.
§ 111.05   APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be construed to regulate all forms of lawful gambling
within the city except:
   (A)   Bingo conducted within a nursing home or a senior citizen housing
project or by a senior citizen organization if: the prizes for a single bingo
game do not exceed $10; total prizes awarded at a single bingo occasion do not
exceed $200; no more than 2 bingo occasions are held by the organization or at
the facility each week; only members of the organization or residents of the
nursing home or housing project are allowed to play in a bingo game; no
compensation is paid for any persons who conduct the bingo; and a manager is
appointed to supervise the bingo.
   (B)   Raffles, if the value of all prizes awarded by the organization in a
calendar year does not exceed $1,500.
§ 111.06   LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED.
   Lawful gambling is permitted within the city if the Council, by resolution
adopted by a majority of its members authorizes lawful gambling to occur,
provided it is conducted in accordance with M.S. §§ 609.75 to 609.763,
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time; M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.23,
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, and this chapter.
§ 111.07   COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   Lawful gambling authorized by M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.23, inclusive, as they
may be amended from time to time, shall not be conducted unless approved by the
Council, subject to the provisions of this chapter and state law.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.08   APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit or bingo hall
license or renewal of a premises permit or bingo hall license from the Board
shall file with the City Clerk an executed, complete duplicate application
together with all exhibits and documents accompanying the application as filed
with the Board.  The application and accompanying exhibits and documents shall
be filed not later than three days after they have been filed with the Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a premises
permit or bingo hall license, the City Clerk shall transmit the application to
the Chief of Police, or the Sheriff of the county in which this city is
located, for review and recommendation.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or Sheriff shall investigate the matter and make a
review and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (D)   Organizations or bingo halls applying for a state-issued premises
permit or bingo hall license shall pay the city an investigation fee as set out
in §
33.15. This fee shall be refunded if the application is withdrawn before the
investigation is commenced.
   (E)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (F)   The Council shall receive the Police Chief's or Sheriff's report and
consider the application within 45 days of the date the application was
submitted to the City Clerk.
   (G)   The Council shall, by resolution, approve or disapprove the
application within 60 days of receipt of the application.
   (H)   The Council shall disapprove an application for issuance or renewal of
a premises permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years.
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances,
suppression of vice, and protection of public safety within the last three
years.
      (3)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at premises other than those for
which an on-sale liquor license has been issued.
      (4)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at more than one premises within
the city.  The city  may limit the number of premises where lawful gambling may
be conducted.
      (5)   An organization would be permitted to conduct lawful gambling
activities at more than one premises in the city.
      (6)   More than one licensed organization would be permitted to conduct
lawful gambling activities at one premises.
      (7)   Failure of the applicant to pay any investigation fee provided by
division (D) of this section within the prescribed time limit.
      (8)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
Otherwise the Council shall pass a resolution approving the application.
§ 111.09   LOCAL PERMITS.
   (A)   No organization shall conduct lawful gambling excluded or exempted
from state licensure requirements by M.S. § 349.166, as it may be amended from
time to time, without a valid local permit. This section shall not apply to
lawful gambling exempted from local regulation by §
111.05.
   (B)   Applications for issuance or renewal of a local permit shall be on a
form prescribed by the city. The application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the organization requesting the permit.
      (2)   Name and address of the officers and person accounting for
receipts, expenses, and profits for the event.
      (3)   Dates of gambling occasion for which permit is requested.
      (4)   Address of premises where event will occur.
      (5)   Copy of rental or leasing arrangement, if any, connected with the
event, including rental to be charged to organization.
      (6)   Estimated value of prizes to be awarded.
   (C)   The fee for a local permit shall be as set out in §
33.15. The fee shall be submitted with the application for a local permit. This
fee shall be refunded if the application is withdrawn before the investigation
is commenced.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a local
permit, the City Clerk shall transmit the notification to the Chief of Police
or Sheriff for review and recommendation.
   (E)   The Chief of Police or Sheriff shall investigate the matter and make
review and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (F)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (G)   The Council shall receive the Police Chief's or Sheriff's report and
consider the application within 45 days of the date the application was
submitted to the City Clerk.
   (H)   The Council shall disapprove an application for issuance or renewal of
a premises permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years.
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to the operation of the establishment, laws relating to alcoholic
beverages, gambling, controlled substances, suppression of vice, and protection
of public safety within the last three years.
      (3)   The organization has not been in existence in the city for at least
three consecutive years prior to the date of application.
      (4)   The organization does not have at least 30 active members.
      (5)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not take place at a
premises the organization owns or rents.
      (6)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not be limited to a
premises for which an on- sale liquor license has been issued.
      (7)   An organization will have a permit to conduct exempted or excluded
lawful gambling activities on more than one premises in the city.
      (8)   More than 1 licensed, qualified organization will be conducting
exempted or excluded lawful gambling activities at any one premises.
      (9)   Failure of the applicant to pay permit fee provided by division (C)
of this section within the prescribed time limit.
      (10)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
Otherwise the council shall approve the application.
   (I)   Local permits shall be valid for 1 year after the date of issuance
unless suspended or revoked.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.10   REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LOCAL PERMIT.
   (A)   A local permit may be revoked or temporarily suspended for a violation
by the gambling organization of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to gambling.
   (B)   A license shall not be revoked or suspended until notice and an
opportunity for a hearing have first been given to the permitted person. The
notice shall be personally served and shall state the provision reasonably
believed to be violated. The notice shall also state that the permitted person
may demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the permit will not be
suspended until after the hearing is held. If the permitted person requests a
hearing, the Council shall hold a hearing on the matter at least one week after
the date on which the request is made. If, as a result of the hearing, the
Council finds that an ordinance violation exists, then the Council may suspend
or revoke the permit.
§ 111.11   LICENSE AND PERMIT DISPLAY.
   All permits issued under state law or this chapter shall be prominently
displayed during the permit year at the premises where gambling is conducted.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.12   NOTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CHANGES TO APPLICATION.
   An organization holding a state-issued premises permit or a local permit
shall notify the city in writing whenever any material change in the
information submitted in the application occurs within ten days of the change.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.13   CONTRIBUTION OF NET PROFITS TO FUND ADMINISTERED BY CITY.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling within the city
pursuant to M.S. § 349.16, as it may be amended from time to time, shall
contribute 10% of its net profits derived from lawful gambling in the city to a
fund administered and regulated by the city without cost to the fund. The city
shall disburse the funds for lawful purposes as defined by M.S. § 349.12 Subd.
25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Payment under this section shall be made on the last day of each
month.
   (C)   The city's use of these funds shall be determined at the time of
adoption of the city's annual budget or when the budget is amended.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.14   DESIGNATED TRADE AREA.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct gambling within the city shall
expend 100% of its lawful purpose expenditures on lawful purposes conducted
within the city's trade area.
   (B)   This section applies only to lawful purpose expenditures of gross
profits derived from gambling conducted at a premises within the city's
jurisdiction.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.15   RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Organizations conducting lawful gambling shall file with the City
Clerk one copy of all records and reports required to be filed with the Board,
pursuant to M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to time, and rules
adopted pursuant thereto, as they may be amended from time to time. The records
and reports shall be filed on or before the day they are required to be filed
with the Board.
   (B)   Organizations licensed by the Board shall file a report with the city
proving compliance with the trade area spending requirements imposed by §
111.14.  Such report shall be made on a form prescribed by the city and shall
be submitted annually and in advance of application for renewal.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.16   HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Lawful gambling shall not be conducted between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
any day of the week.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.17   SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is found to be invalid for any reason by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining provisions shall
not be affected.
SWIMMING POOL
§ 111.40   AUTHORIZED USES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, unless authorized, to be in
the swimming pool, bath house or within the fenced-in area around the Slayton
municipal swimming pool except during the season it is open for swimming and
then only during the hours established by the City Swimming Pool Committee and
approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.301) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.41   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Possession and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages, including 3.2%
malt liquor and low point beer shall be prohibited on the premises of the
Slayton municipal swimming pool.
   (B)   This shall be construed to include the swimming pool, bathhouse and
fenced-in area around the swimming pool.
(Prior Code, § 5.302) 
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.42   SMOKING.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in the swimming pool, bath house and within the
fenced-in area around the Slayton municipal swimming pool at all times.
(Prior Code, § 5.303) 
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99   PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which there
is no penalty shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99
   (B)   Any person who violates:
      (1)   Any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   M.S. §§ 609.75 to 609.763, inclusive, as they may be amended from
time to time; or
      (3)   M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.21, as they may be amended from time to time,
or any rules promulgated under those sections, as they may be amended from time
to time; shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
§
10.99
CHAPTER 112:  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
Licensing and Regulation
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Issuance of license
   
112.04   Inspection
   
112.05   Expiration of license
   
112.06   Regulation of businesses
   
112.07   Suspension; revocation
   
112.08   Transfer of license
Location
   
112.20   Definition
   
112.21   As conditional use
   
112.22   License
   
112.23   Location
   
112.24   Location near other sexually oriented businesses
   
112.25   Multiple uses; enlargement of uses
   
112.26   Measurement from certain uses
   
112.27   Measurement between sexually oriented businesses
   
112.28   Nonconforming use
   
112.29   Lawful operation
LICENSING AND REGULATION
§ 112.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE.  Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated or for any form of consideration or
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, video or laser disc players or other image-producing
devices are maintained to show images to 5 or fewer persons per machine at any
1 time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by
the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as 1 of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any 1 or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations which are characterized by the depiction
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
and/or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and still be categorized as, ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or
ADULT VIDEO STORE. Other business purposes will not serve to exempt these
commercial establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult
novelty store or adult video store so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a commercial establishment which
offers for sale or rental any of the items listed in division (1)(a) above will
not be considered to have as 1 of its principal business purposes the offering
for sale or rental for consideration the specified materials which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas provided all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Total gross revenues from the sale or rental any of the items
listed in division (1)(a) does not exceed 10% of the commercial establishment’s
gross revenue;
         (b)   Total gross square footage of display space and stock area
devoted to the sale or rental any of the items listed in division (1)(a) above
does not exceed 10% of the commercial establishment’s total square footage;
         (c)   Display of the any of the items listed in division (1)(a) above
is in a separate room or area restricted only to persons 18 years old or older
and is closely monitored by management and/or employees of the commercial
establishment to insure that no individual under the age of 18 enters the room
or area where the items listed in division (1)(a) are displayed or stored;
         (d)   No electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still
or motion picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or other
image-producing devices are maintained on the premises of the establishment to
show images of items listed in division (1)(a) to any customers or potential
customers of the commercial establishment; and
         (e)   Only employees or management of the commercial establishment who
are 18 years old or older are permitted to enter the area where the items
listed in division (1)(a) are stored, processed or displayed for customers or
potential customers of the commercial establishment.
   ADULT CABARET.  A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL.  A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way
which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 10 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than 10 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  A commercial establishment where, for any
form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized
by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATER.  A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nude, or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   ESCORT.  A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY.  A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; and/or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE.  A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO.  Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays specified anatomical areas and is provided to
be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the state of
Minnesota or a college, junior college or university supported entirely or in
part by public taxation; a private college or university which maintains and
operates educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college,
junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least 3 days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than 1 nude or semi-nude model is on the premises at
any 1 time.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY.  The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus with less than a fully opaque covering or the
showing of the covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PERSON.  An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE or IN A SEMI-NUDE CONDITION.  The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER.  A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when 1 or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter
center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
area, vulva or anus.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.  Any of the following offenses: Any unlawful
lewd, indecent or immoral conduct, including specifically, but without
limitation, any of the lewd, indecent or immoral criminal acts specified in any
of the following statutes:
      (1)   Criminal Code, M.S. §§ 609.293 through 609.365, as they may be
amended from time to time;
      (2)   Criminal Code, M.S. §§ 617.23 through 617.296, as they may be
amended from time to time; or
      (3)   Criminal Code, M.S. §§ 152.01 through 152.21, as they may be
amended from time to time.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region
or anus;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence;
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1), (2), (3) or (4) above (of this
definition); or
      (6)   Bestiality.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist
on the date this subchapter takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP or CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 299, passed 12-16-2002)
§ 112.02   LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business
without a valid sexually oriented business license issued by the city.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
city.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
subchapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide
information (including fingerprints) so as to enable the city to determine
whether the applicant meets the qualifications established in this subchapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under the following section and each applicant shall be considered a
licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity
of all officers, directors and principal stockholders and the name of the
registered corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service
of process; and
         (d)   The name of the owner of the property where to be located; if a
corporation, then the names of the principal owners of corporation.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant; he or she must state the
sexually oriented business’s fictitious name and submit the required
registration documents;
      (3)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity as defined in this subchapter,
and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place and
jurisdiction of each;
      (4)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a previous license under this subchapter or other similar sexually oriented
business sections from another city or county denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the
permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial,
suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant or a person residing with
the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or
principal stockholder of a corporation that is licensed under this subchapter
whose license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the
name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or
revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other licenses under this subchapter or other similar sexually oriented
business section from another city or county and, if so, the names and
locations of those other licensed businesses;
      (6)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address and telephone number(s), if
any;
      (7)   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address;
      (8)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, social security number
and/or his or her state or federally issued tax identification number;
      (9)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus 6 inches;
      (10)   A straight-line drawing prepared within 30 days prior to
application depicting the property lines and the structures containing any
existing sexually oriented businesses within 1,000 feet of the property to be
licensed; the property lines of any established religious institution/
synagogue, school or public park or recreation area within 500 feet of the
property to be licensed. For purposes of this section, a use shall be
considered existing or established if it is in existence at the time an
application is submitted. The drawing shall be reviewed by the Building
Inspector for accuracy. In the event of a dispute between the applicant and the
city as to the accuracy of the drawing, the Building Inspector may order the
applicant to provide a drawing with the information required under this
division prepared by a registered land surveyor; and
      (11)   Copy of lease and all financing documents; all business related
contracts for supply of materials and consulting management.
(Ord. 299, passed 12-16-2002) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.03   ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of the application for a sexually oriented business
license the application shall be referred to the appropriate city departments
for an investigation to be made on information as is contained in the
application. The application process shall be completed within 60 days from the
date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the city
shall issue a license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of the
evidence that 1 or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant or a person with whom applicant is residing is overdue
in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against or
imposed upon him or her in relation to any business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the city to operate a sexually oriented business
within the preceding 12 months or whose license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (5)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity defined in this subchapter;
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department and the Building
Official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      (7)   The license fee required by this subchapter has not been paid; and/
or
      (8)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The license, if granted shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of the
sexually oriented business and the classification for which the license is
issued. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that they may be easily read at
any time.
   (C)   The Health Department, Fire Department and the Building Official shall
complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application by the city.
   (D)   Every application for a sexually oriented business license (whether
for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied
by a $1,000 non-refundable application and investigation fee as set out in §
33.15.
   (E)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required above,
every sexually oriented business that is granted a license (new or renewal)
shall pay to the city an annual non-refundable license fee of $1,000 within 30
days of license issuance or renewal.
   (F)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the City
Clerk/Administrator.
(Ord. 299, passed 12-16-2002)
§ 112.04   INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Health Department, Fire Department, Zoning Department or other city
departments or agencies to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business
for the purpose of insuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied
or open for business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his or her agent
or employee commits a violation of this chapter if he or she refuses to permit
a lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is open for business.
(Ord. 299, passed 12-16-2002)
§ 112.05   EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire 1 year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided herein. Application for renewal
shall be made at least 30 days before the expiration date.
   (B)   When the city denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for 1 year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to denial,
the city finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has been
corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90 days
have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Ord. 299, passed 12-16-2002)
§ 112.06   REGULATION OF BUSINESSES.
   (A)   All licensed sexually oriented businesses shall comply with the
provisions of this subchapter, all other applicable city code sections, and all
other applicable federal, state and local laws.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be maintained or operated in any
manner that causes, creates or allows public viewing of any adult material or
any entertainment depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, from any sidewalk, public or private
right-of-way, or any property other than the lot on which the licensed premises
is located. No portion of the exterior of a sexually oriented business shall
utilize or contain any flashing lights, search lights or spotlights or any
other similar lighting systems, or any words, lettering, photographs,
silhouettes, drawings or pictorial representations of any manner except to the
extent specifically allowed herein. This section shall apply to any
advertisement, display, promotional material, decoration or sign; to any
performance or show; and to any window, door or other opening.
   (C)   All signs for sexually oriented businesses shall be flat wall signs.
The maximum allowable sign area shall be 1 square foot of sign area per foot of
lot frontage on a street, but in no event exceeding 32 square feet. The maximum
number of signs shall be 1 per lot frontage. Signs otherwise permitted pursuant
to this subchapter shall contain only the name of the sexually oriented
business and/or the specific type of sexually oriented business conducted on
the licensed premises. Temporary signage shall not be permitted in connection
with any sexually oriented business.
   (D)   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain
open at any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
   (E)   A person commits a violation of this chapter if the person knowingly
allows a person under the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually
oriented business.
(Ord. 299, passed 12-16-2002) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.07   SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days if
it determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
subchapter; or
      (2)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   The city shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension occurs and
the license has been suspended within the preceding 12 months.
   (C)   The city shall revoke a license if it determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or
other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city, county or state
for any taxes or fees past due.
   (D)   When the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for 1
year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license
for 1 year from the date the revocation became effective.
   (E)   If, subsequent to revocation, the city finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective.
   (F)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of administrative action in any court
of competent jurisdiction.
   (G)   The administrative action shall be promptly reviewed by the court.
(Ord. 299, passed 12-16-2002)
§ 112.08   TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 299, passed 12-16-2002)
LOCATION
§ 112.20   DEFINITION.
   A sexually oriented business under this section shall be defined as provided
for in §
112.01 above. All terms defined in §§
112.01 through
112.08 above are incorporated into this section as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 300, passed 12-16-2002)
§ 112.21   AS CONDITIONAL USE.
   Sexually oriented businesses shall be considered conditional uses and may be
permitted only within qualifying areas of the B-1 Highway Business District and
I-1 Industrial Business District.
(Ord. 300, passed 12-16-2002)
§ 112.22   LICENSE.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business may be granted a conditional use permit
under this section unless it has applied for and received a license pursuant to
§§
112.01 through
112.08 above.
   (B)   Application for the sexually oriented business license and a
conditional use permit may happen concurrently or a conditional use permit may
be granted under this section subject to the applicant receiving a license
pursuant to §§
112.01 through
112.08 above.
   (C)   An applicant for a conditional use permit under this section shall
also include a copy of the application for the license under §§
112.01 through
112.08 above with the application under this subchapter.
(Ord. 300, passed 12-16-2002)
§ 112.23   LOCATION.
   No sexually oriented business may be located or operated within 500 feet of:
   (A)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
   (B)   A public or private educational facility including but not limited to
child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, and
universities; school includes the school grounds, but does not include
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school;
   (C)   A boundary of a residential district as defined in
Chapter 152 of this code;
   (D)   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for park
or recreational activities including but not limited to a park, playground,
nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball or tennis
courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas or other similar public land
within the city which is under the control, operation or management of the city
park and recreation authorities;
   (E)   A public theater;
   (F)   A shopping center; or
   (G)   An airport.
(Ord. 300, passed 12-16-2002) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.24   LOCATION NEAR OTHER SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   The operation, establishment, substantial enlargement or transfer of
ownership or control of a sexually oriented business may not occur within 1,000
feet of another sexually oriented business.
   (B)   In addition, there shall not be more than 1 sexually oriented business
within a block front even if the block is greater than 1,000 feet in length.
(Ord. 300, passed 12-16-2002) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.25   MULTIPLE USES; ENLARGEMENT OF USES.
   The operation, establishment or maintenance of more than 1 sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure or portion thereof, or the increase of
floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure or
portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business, is prohibited.
(Ord. 300, passed 12-16-2002) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.26   MEASUREMENT FROM CERTAIN USES.
   (A)   For the purpose of §
112.23 above, measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to
the intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building
or structure used as the part of the premises where a sexually oriented
business is conducted, to the nearest property line of the premises of a use
listed in §
112.23 above.
   (B)   Presence of a city, county or other political subdivision boundary
shall be irrelevant for purposes of calculating and applying the distance
requirements of this section. The distance shall be measured across property
lines, regardless of ownership of the property.
(Ord. 300, passed 12-16-2002)
§ 112.27   MEASUREMENT BETWEEN SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   For purposes of §
112.24 above, the distance between any 2 sexually oriented businesses shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or
objects or political boundaries, from the closest exterior wall of the
structure in which each business is located.
(Ord. 300, passed 12-16-2002)
§ 112.28   NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on January 1, 2003,
that is, in violation of §§
112.20 through
112.27 above shall be deemed a nonconforming use.
   (B)   The nonconforming use will be permitted to continue until terminated
for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more.
   (C)   The nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or
altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use.
   (D)   If 2 or more sexually oriented businesses are within 1,000 feet of one
another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually oriented business
which was first established and continually operating at a particular location
is the conforming use and the later established business(es) is/are
nonconforming.
(Ord. 300, passed 12-16-2002)
§ 112.29   LAWFUL OPERATION.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the conditional use permit under this section, of a use listed in §
112.23 above within 1,000 feet of the sexually oriented business.
   (B)   This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and
does not apply when an application for a license is submitted after a license
has expired or been revoked.
(Ord. 300, passed 12-16-2002)
CHAPTER 113:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
113.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
113.04   License ineligibility
   
113.05   License suspension and revocation
   
113.06   License transferability
   
113.07   Registration
   
113.08   Prohibited activities
   
113.09   Exclusion by placard
§ 113.01   DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER.  A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place, for the purpose
of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
HAWKER.
   PERSON.  Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY.  Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as REGULAR BUSINESS DAYS.
   SOLICITOR.  A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-
to-business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she  may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT.  A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter or empty store front for
the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell,
and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property
and who does not remain or intend to remain in any 1 location for more than 14
consecutive days.
§ 113.02   EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person selling
or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products, merchandise or
other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by the
wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, as
shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or any
officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
113.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
§ 113.03   LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S.
Chapter 329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a
license for the activity.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are still required to register pursuant to §
113.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for a
license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the City Clerk/Administrator. All applications shall be signed by
the applicant. All applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   Applicant’s full legal name;
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business (if any);
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive days);
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last 5 years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the 3 most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any requested county license;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
      (19)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in §
33.15 of this code, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of the
license fee, the City Clerk/Administrator, within 2 regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided.
      (2)   If the City Clerk/Administrator determines that the application is
incomplete, the City Clerk/Administrator must inform the applicant of the
required necessary information that is missing.
      (3)   If the application is complete, the City Clerk/Administrator must
order any investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the
information provided with the application.
      (4)   Within 10 regular business days of receiving a complete application
the City Clerk/Administrator must issue the license unless there exist grounds
for denying the license under §
113.04, in which case the Clerk/Administrator must deny the license.
      (5)   If the City Clerk/Administrator denies the license, the applicant
must be notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial, and of the
applicant’s right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days of
receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City Council.
      (6)   The City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days of the date
of the request. The decision of the City Council following the public hearing
can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals for a writ of
certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for 1 calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted under
this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street or other type of
place-to-place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person’s
state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press,
religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person’s
exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fund raisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.04   LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past 5 years from the date
of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation,
or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person’s ability to
conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an honest and
legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to burglary,
theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices and any form of
actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (D)   The revocation within the past 5 years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant; and/or
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than 3 complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Attorney General’s office or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or 3 complaints filed
against the applicant within the preceding 5 years.
§ 113.05   LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statements on the application
form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under §
113.04; and/or
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) above, the
licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing.
      (2)   If no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk/
Administrator within 10 regular business days following the service of the
notice, the city may proceed with the suspension or revocation.
      (3)   For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall be considered
complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a public hearing
is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be scheduled within
20 days from the date of the request.
      (4)   Within 3 regular business days of the hearing, the City Council
shall notify the licensee of its decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.06   LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.07   REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements
of this chapter under §
113.03, shall be required to register with the city.
   (B)   Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be required to
register.
   (C)   The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
   (D)   Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license
application, but no fee shall be required.
   (E)   Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City Clerk/
Administrator shall issue to the registrant a certificate of registration as
proof of the registration.
   (F)   Certificates of registration shall be non-transferable.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.08   PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person; or
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.09   EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least 4 inches long and 4 inches
wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors
or Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants
Prohibited” or other comparable statement. No person other than the property
owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign or
placard under this section.
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 114:  GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
114.01   Criminal history background check for license or permit issuance
§ 114.01  CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECK FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Established.  A criminal history background check for certain persons
applying for certain licenses and permits within the city shall be established.
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   The Slayton Police Department, through the Muarray County Sheriff’s
Department, is authorized to complete a criminal history background
investigation on every applicant for a license or permit authorized by
Chapter 110 or
Chapter 113 of the City Code. Before any investigation is undertaken by the
Police Department, the applicant must authorize the Police Department in
writing to undertake the investigation and to release any information gathered
during the investigation and to release any information gathered during the
investigation as provided in division (B)(3) below. The written consent must
fully comply with the provisions of M.S. Ch. 13, as it may be amended from time
to time, regarding the collection, maintenance and use of the information.
      (2)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation, the
Police Department shall coordinate the investigation with the Murray County
Sheriff’s Department and may access data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of
Criminal Apprehension’s Computerized Criminal History information system in
accordance with the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension policy. The Police
Department is also authorized to access any other automated and non-automated
sources to conduct criminal history background investigations.
      (3)   Any data that is accessed and acquired by the Police Department
shall be maintained at the Police Department under the care and custody of the
Chief of Police or his or her designee. A summary of the results of the
criminal history background investigation may be released by the Police
Department and to the City Clerk/Administrator or to his or her designee. The
City Clerk/Administrator or his or her designee shall determine if the
information from the criminal history background investigation should be
released further to the City Council or other city staff involved in the
licensing or permitting process.
      (4)   If, after the investigation is complete, the City Clerk/
Administrator or his or her designee is satisfied that all requirements of the
Minnesota Statutes, the City Code and this section have been met, the City
Clerk/Administrator or his or her designee shall issue the license or permit.
      (5)   The city will not deny an applicant’s for request for a license or
permit on the basis of an applicant’s prior criminal conviction unless the
crime is directly related to the license or permit sought (using the criteria
set forth in M.S. § 364.03, Subdivision 2, as it may be amended from time to
time) and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor with
jail sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request for a license or
permit due partially or solely on the applicant’s prior conviction of a crime,
the City Clerk/Administrator or his or her designee shall notify the applicant
in writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
         (b)   The applicant compliant and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for license or
permit; and
         (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 325, passed 11-16-2009)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND PROPERTY
   
131.   MINORS
   
132.   EXPLOSIVES
CHAPTER 130:  OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Acts prohibited
   
130.03   Mailbox installation
   
130.04   Movement of snow
   
130.05   Excavation regulation
§ 130.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MISSILE.  Includes any object which can be thrown or launched at a target or
dropped on a target, and shall include water filled vessels.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Every vehicle which is self-propelled and not deriving its
power from overhead wires.
   VEHICLE.  Any device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including bicycles moved by human
power.
(Prior Code, § 9.202)
§ 130.02   ACTS PROHIBITED.
   The throwing launching or dropping of snowballs, stones, fruits, vegetables
or other missiles at or on any vehicle or motorized vehicle, whether moving or
stationary, or at or on any building or part of a building within the City of
Slayton is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9.203) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.03   MAILBOX INSTALLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, or persons, to install or cause to
install any box or boxes for the delivery of United States mail or other mail
upon City of Slayton property, which bounds private real estate such as
boulevards and lot lines, without first obtaining permission from the owner or
owners of those private properties to accept the installations as described
herein.
(Prior Code, § 10.201) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.04   MOVEMENT OF SNOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit upon
private property within the City of Slayton, Murray County, Minnesota, without
the consent of the owner thereof, any snow, which has been removed from other
private property.
(Prior Code, § 10.501) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.05   EXCAVATION REGULATION.
   No excavation or digging of any kind on any public property belonging to the
city shall be commenced by any person, organization, corporation or others, or
cause an excavation to be started, without first making application in writing
to the Clerk/Administrator of the City of Slayton indicating thereon the exact
location of the proposed excavation and obtain a permit therefore.
(Prior Code, § 10.601) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 131:  MINORS
Section
   
131.01   Curfew for minors
§ 131.01   CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for 4 primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND.  A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME.  The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT.  Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY.  The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter and other basic necessities to the minor. The
person providing PRIMARY CARE or CUSTODY to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY.  An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work;
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly or freedom of religion;
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence; or
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian or
other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless 1 of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (I)   A law enforcement officer must look into whether a minor has an
affirmative defense before making an arrest.
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 132:  EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
132.01   Scope
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Mandatory permits for acquisition and use
   
132.04   Permit application
   
132.05   Revocation of permit
   
132.06   May not transfer to unauthorized person
   
132.07   Seller’s record
   
132.08   Storage and security requirements
   
132.09   Report of thefts
   
132.10   Bomb threats
§ 132.01   SCOPE.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the manufacture, keeping, having, storage,
sale, transportation and use of explosives and blasting agents.
   (B)   It shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Transportation of explosives or blasting agents when under the
jurisdiction of and in compliance with the regulations of the Federal
Department of Transportation;
      (2)   Shipment, transportation and handling of military explosives by the
Armed Forces of the United States and the State Militia;
      (3)   Transportation and use of explosives or blasting agents in the
normal and emergency operation of federal agencies or state or municipal Fire
and Police Departments, providing they are acting in their official capacities
and in the proper performance of their duties; or
      (4)   Sale and use (public display) of pyrotechnics commonly known as
fireworks.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the following commodities and items:
      (1)   Stocks of small arms ammunition; propellant-actuated power
cartridges; small arms ammunition primers in quantities of less than 1,000,000,
smokeless propellant in quantities of less than 750 pounds;
      (2)   Explosive actuated power devices when in quantities of less than 50
pounds net weight of explosives;
      (3)   Fuse lighters and fuse igniters;
      (4)   Safety fuse (safety fuse does not include cordeau detonant fuse),
and 3/32-inch cannon fuses or matchlock fuses (slow match); or
      (5)   The sale or transfer of black powder or other commonly used non-
smokeless propellant in individual transactions involving quantities of 5
pounds or less when used for muzzle loaded sports equipment or used in the hand
loading of sports equipment.
(Prior Code, § 10.401)
§ 132.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLASTING AGENT.  Any material or mixture consisting of a fuel and oxidizer,
intended for blasting not otherwise classified as an explosive and in which
none of the ingredients are classified as an explosive, provided that the
finished product, as mixed and packaged for use or shipment, cannot be
detonated by means of a No. 8 test blasting cap when unconfined.
      NO. 8 TEST BLASTING CAP.  One containing 2 grams of a mixture of 80%
mercury fulminate and 20% potassium chlorate, or a cap of equivalent strength.
      NITRO-CARBO-NITRATE.  Applies to any blasting agent which has been
classified as nitro-carbo-nitrate under the Department of Transportation
Regulations, and which is packaged and shipped in compliance with the
regulations of the Department of Transportation.
   EXPLOSIVE or EXPLOSIVES.  Any chemical compound, mixture or device, the
primary or common purpose of which is to function by explosion, i.e., with
substantially instantaneous release of gas and heat, unless the compound,
mixture or device is otherwise specifically classified by the DOT (formerly
ICC). The term EXPLOSIVES include all material which is classified as Class A,
Class B and Class C explosives by the DOT (formerly ICC), and includes, but is
not limited to, dynamite, black powder, pellet powders, initiating explosives,
blasting caps, electric blasting caps, safety fuse, fuse  lighters, fuse
igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuse, instantaneous fuse, igniter cord,
igniters, small arms ammunition, small arms ammunition primers, smokeless
propellant, cartridges for propellant actuated power devices and cartridges for
industrial guns and some special fire works. ( COMMERCIAL EXPLOSIVES are those
explosives which are intended to be used in commercial or industrial
operations).
      (1)   Classification of EXPLOSIVES is described by the Department of
Transportation, DOT (formerly Interstate Commerce Commission, ICC) as follows.
         CLASS A EXPLOSIVES.  Possessing, detonating or otherwise maximum
hazard; such as dynamite, nitroglycerin, picric acid, lead azide, fulminate of
mercury, black powder, blasting caps and detonating primers.
         CLASS B EXPLOSIVES.  Possessing flammable hazard, such as propellant
explosives (including some smokeless propellants), photographic flash powders
and some special fireworks.
         CLASS C EXPLOSIVES.  Includes certain types of manufactured articles
which contain Class A or Class B explosives, or both, as components but in
restricted quantities.
         FORBIDDEN OR NOT ACCEPTABLE EXPLOSIVES.  Explosives which are
forbidden or not acceptable for transportation by common carriers, by rail
freight, rail express, highway or water in accordance with the regulations of
the DOT (ICC).
      (2)   Certain chemicals and certain fuel materials may have explosive
characteristics which are not specifically classified by the DOT (formerly ICC)
and are not readily classified for coverage in the Code. Authoritative
information should be obtained for those unclassified materials and action
commensurate with their hazards, location, isolation and safeguards should be
taken.
   EXPLOSIVE-ACTUATED POWER DEVICES.  Any tool or special mechanized device
that is actuated by explosives, but not to including propellant-actuated power
devices. Examples of EXPLOSIVE-ACTUATED POWER DEVICES are jet tappers and jet
perforators.
   HIGHWAY.  Any public street, public alley or public road.
   INHABITED BUILDINGS.
      (1)   A building or structure regularly used in whole or in part as a
place of human habitation.
      (2)   Any church, school, store, railway passenger station, airport
terminal for passengers, and any other building or structure where people are
accustomed to congregate or assemble, but excluding any building or structure
occupied in connection with the manufacture, transportation, storage and use of
explosives.
   MAGAZINE.  Any building or structure, other than an explosives manufacturing
building, approved for the storage of explosives.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any self-propelled vehicle, truck, tractor, semi-trailer,
used for the transportation of freight over public highways.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, co-partnership, corporation, company,
association and including any trustee, receiver, assignee or personal
representative thereof.
   PROPELLANT-ACTUATED POWER DEVICES.  Any tool or special mechanized device or
gas generator system which is actuated by a smokeless propellant or which
releases and directs work through a smokeless propellant charge.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE.  Any railroad car, street car, ferry, cab, bus, airplane
or other vehicle which is carrying passengers for hire.
   RAILWAY.  Any steam, electric, diesel, electric or other railroad or railway
which carries passengers for hire on the particular line or branch in the
vicinity where explosives are stored or where explosives manufacturing
buildings are situated.
   SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION.  Any shotgun, rifle, pistol or revolver cartridge for
propellant-actuated power devices and industrial guns. Military-type ammunition
containing explosive bursting charges, spotting or pyrotechnic projectiles is
excluded from this definition.
   SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION PRIMERS.  Small percussion-sensitive explosive
charges, encased in a cup, used to ignite propellant powder.
   SMOKELESS PROPELLANTS.  Commonly called smokeless powders in the trade, used
in small arms ammunition, cannon, rockets, propellant-actuated power devices
and the like.
   SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.  Explosive-actuated power devices and
propellant-actuated power devices.
   SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL EXPLOSIVES MATERIALS.  Shaped materials and sheet forms
and various other extrusions, pellets and packages of high explosives, which
include dynamite, TNT, PETN, RDX, and other similar compounds used for high-
energy-rate forming, expanding and shaping in metal fabrication, and for
dismemberment and quick reduction of scrap metal.
(Prior Code, § 10.402)
§ 132.03   MANDATORY PERMITS FOR ACQUISITION AND USE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to acquire, possess, use, sell or
handle any explosive as defined in §
132.02 above, except as otherwise provided by §
132.01 above, within the City of Slayton without having a permit in his or her
possession.
   (B)   A permit shall be issued only by the Clerk/Administrator, upon
approval of the City Council.
   (C)   Any person desiring a permit as required by this section shall make
application thereof in writing to the City Clerk/Administrator on forms that
the City Council may prescribe.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the Clerk/Administrator he or she shall
notify the Chief of the Fire Department (Chief of Police) that the permit is
desired.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the notification the Chief shall inspect the premises
upon which the applicant desires to store, handle and use the explosives set
forth in the application and if he or she is satisfied:
      (1)   That no serious fire hazard will be created; and
      (2)   That the applicant plans to store and use the explosives in the
manner prescribed by this chapter, he or she shall endorse his or her approval
upon the application and return it to the Clerk/Administrator who shall present
the same to the Council.
   (F)   The Council shall deny the issuance of any like permit to anyone who:
      (1)   Has been convicted within the past 10 years of a felony or gross
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or anyone who is presently under
indictment for any like crime;
      (2)   Has been within the past 10 years convicted of a crime in which the
use, possession or sale of narcotics or illicit drugs was an element;
      (3)   Has been treated within the past 10 years for addiction to narcotic
or illicit drugs, or has been within that time period admitted to any hospital
or institution for treatment of narcotic or illicit drug addiction, or has been
within that time period, certified by a licensed medical doctor as being
addicted to narcotic or illicit drugs;
      (4)   Has been within the past 10 years, treated for alcohol addiction,
admitted to any hospital or institution for treatment of alcohol addiction, or
certified by a licensed medical doctor as being addicted to alcohol;
      (5)   Has been within the past 10 years, admitted to any hospital or
institution because of or for treatment of any mental deficiency, or certified
by a licensed medical doctor as being mentally ill or mentally deficient;
      (6)   Has been within the past 10 years acquitted of any criminal charge
by reason of insanity; or
      (7)   Is not 21 years of age at the time when application for the permit
is made.
   (G)   If the Council grants the permit the Clerk/Administrator shall, upon
receipt of a fee as set out in §
33.15, prepare and deliver to the applicant the permit as is requested in the
application, provided, that no permit shall be granted for a period exceeding
30 days.
(Prior Code, § 10.403) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 132.04   PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The application for a user’s permit shall be sworn to by the applicant and
shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   The applicant’s date of birth;
   (C)   Where applicant intends to permanently store the explosives he or she
intends to use and the storage security measures provided at the storage and
use sites;
   (D)   The applicant’s intended use for explosives he or she purchases
pursuant to any permit that may be issued to him or her; and
   (E)   All additional information as may be prescribed by the City Council in
determining whether the applicant is qualified pursuant to §
132.03 above to possess the permit.
(Prior Code, § 10.404)
§ 132.05   REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit may be revoked or suspended at any time by order of the City
Council for any violation of the provisions of this section or upon the
creation or existence of any condition which would be in the opinion of the
Chief of the Fire Department (or Chief of Police) create or tend to create a
serious fire hazard.
(Prior Code, § 10.405)
§ 132.06   MAY NOT TRANSFER TO UNAUTHORIZED PERSON.
   No person shall sell, transfer or give away any explosive or blasting agent
to anyone who does not possess a valid permit issued pursuant to §
132.03 above.
(Prior Code, § 10.406)
§ 132.07   SELLER’S RECORD.
   (A)   Every person selling or giving away any explosives covered by this
chapter shall keep at all times an accurate record in a bound book, of all the
explosives handled by him or her, indicating a detailed account of:
      (1)   Date of each transference of explosives;
      (2)   Amount of each like transference;
      (3)   Name and address of each purchaser or transferee;
      (4)   Manufacturer of the explosives being transferred;
      (5)   The type of and any identification numbers of explosives being
transferred;
      (6)   Explosives owner’s or user’s permit number;
      (7)   Intended place of storage of the explosive by the purchaser or
transferee;
      (8)   Intended use site; and
      (9)   Security measures provided at the storage site and at the use site.
   (B)   The record book shall at all reasonable times be open to the
inspection of the Chief of the Fire Department (or Chief of Police) and all
duly constituted law enforcement officials of the City of Slayton. In addition,
on the first day of every month the seller or transferor shall make a report to
the Chief of the Fire Department (or Chief of Police) of the transactions which
took place that month.
(Prior Code, § 10.407)
§ 132.08   STORAGE AND SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person storing, handling, using or in any way disposing of explosives
covered by this section shall maintain minimum safety and security features of
all permanent and temporary storage facilities in a manner prescribed by the
rules and regulations of the Minnesota State Fire Marshal governing the
storage, handling, use and transportation of blasting agents and explosives.
(Prior Code, § 10.408) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 132.09   REPORT OF THEFTS.
   Any person who has explosives in his or her possession and who incurs a loss
or theft of all or a portion thereof upon discovery of the loss or theft shall
immediately, and in no event longer than 24 hours from the time of discovery,
inform the office of the local Chief of Police of the loss or theft, the amount
missing and the approximate time of the occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10.409) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 132.10   BOMB THREATS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone:
   (A)   As a hoax, to communicate or cause to be communicated the fact that a
bomb or any other explosive device has been placed in any building or in any
location other than a building;
   (B)   As a hoax, to threaten to bomb any person, place or building;
   (C)   To knowingly permit any telephone or other means of communication
under his or her control to be used for any purposes prohibited by this
section; or
   (D)   As a hoax, to place or cause to be placed in any location any
articles, constructed or placed with intent to give the impression that the
article possesses explosive capability.
(Prior Code, § 10.410) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
   
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Manufactured Homes
   
150.01   Manufactured houses authorized
   
150.02   Variances
   
150.03   Exemptions
   
150.04   Restrictive covenants
Mobile Home Parks
   
150.15   Identification
Building Code; Public Works Reserve Fund
   
150.25   State Building Code
   
150.26   Exemption
   
150.27   Establishment of public works reserve fund
MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 150.01 MANUFACTURED HOUSES AUTHORIZED.
   The City Council of the City of Slayton authorizes the placement of
manufactured houses in residential zones within the city if those manufactured
houses comply with the following conditions:
   (A)   Houses shall comply with all zoning regulations for the zone in which
they are located;
   (B)   A building permit and any other required permits shall be obtained for
manufactured housing;
   (C)   No like house shall have ground floor space of less than 1,000 square
feet;
   (D)   No like houses shall have a width of less than 24 feet at its
narrowest point;
   (E)   Houses shall be placed on permanent foundations which comply with the
Uniform Building Code as adopted in Minnesota and which are solid for the
complete circumference of the house;
   (F)   Any manufactured house shall have exterior siding, which shall be of a
conventional exterior dwelling-type material;
   (G)   Any manufactured house shall have a pitched roof covered with shingles
or tile and have eaves of not less than 6 inches; and
   (H)   All manufactured houses shall be built in compliance with M.S. §§
327.31 through 327.35, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 7.101)
§ 150.02    VARIANCES.
   (A)   Manufactured houses, which vary from these requirements, may be
permitted in residential zones when a special use permit is recommended by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Before any like special use permit is granted, the Commission and City
Council shall find as a fact that the value of the adjacent property will not
be diminished by the placement of the manufactured house.
   (C)   The special use permit shall state any conditions which may be set by
the Commission and City Council in granting this special use permit.
(Prior Code, § 7.102)
§ 150.03  EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall have no application to manufactured houses built in
compliance with the Uniform Building Code as adopted in the State of Minnesota
or to manufactured housing placed in a mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 7.103)
§ 150.04    RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the regulation of uses of property by
means of restrictive covenants, which are valid except for this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.104)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 150.15     IDENTIFICATION.
   That mobile home park owners within the City of Slayton shall erect an
identification sign on each lot approximately 12 inches by 6 inches with
reflecting numerals on a post approximately 3 feet in height, indicating the
lot number and be placed in a front corner of the lot abutting the street.
(Prior Code, § 7.201)
BUILDING CODE; PUBLIC WORKS RESERVE FUND
§ 150.25  STATE BUILDING CODE.
   Pursuant to the local option granted to municipalities whose population is
less than 2,500 people in M.S. § 16B.73, the City of Slayton elects not to make
the provisions of the State Building Code applicable, except the requirements
for handicapped persons, within the jurisdictional limits of the City of
Slayton.
(Prior Code, § 7.301)
§ 150.26  EXEMPTION.
   The City of Slayton qualifies for this exemption pursuant to M.S. 16B.73 as
it is a municipality with a population of less than 2,500 people which is
located in Murray County, Minnesota, a non-metropolitan county which by
referendum vote conducted pursuant to the provisions of M.S. 16B.72 did not
adopt the State Building Code, except the building requirements for handicapped
persons.
(Prior Code, § 7.302)
§ 150.27  ESTABLISHMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS RESERVE FUND.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 471.57 (as amended from time to time), there is
established a fund to be known as the Public Works Reserve Fund for
Construction of a Municipal Building to include therein village offices,
library, rest rooms, Council rooms, jail, Fire Department and equipment, liquor
store and Public Hall, and for the purpose indicated in the title, unless the
voters according to law approve its use, in whole or in part, for another
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7.301)
CHAPTER 151:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
151.01   General provisions
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Procedure
   
151.04   Data required for preliminary and final plats
   
151.05   Design standards
   
151.06   Parks, open space and public use
   
151.07   Required agreements and improvements
   
151.08   Registered land surveys and conveyance by metes and bounds
   
151.09   Variances
   
151.10   Fees
   
151.11   Violations
§ 151.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Short title. This chapter shall be known as the Subdivision Ordinance
for the City of Slayton, and will be referred to herein as the Subdivision
Chapter or this chapter.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   In order to safeguard the best interests of the City of Slayton and
to assist the subdivider in harmonizing his or her interests with those of the
city at large, the following chapter is adopted in order that adherence to same
will bring results beneficial to both parties.
      (2)   It is the purpose of this chapter to make certain regulations and
requirements for the platting of land within the City of Slayton pursuant to
the authority contained in Minnesota Statutes, which regulations the City
Council deems necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of this
community.
   (C)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter relate to any division of a
tract of land into 2 or more parcels by platting, replotting, conveyance,
registered land survey or other means.
   (D)   Approvals necessary for acceptance of subdivision plats. Before any
plat shall be recorded or be of any validity, it shall be referred to the City
Planning Commission and approved by the City Council of Slayton as having
fulfilled the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Conditions for recording. No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled
to record in the Murray County Recorder’s office or have any validity until the
plat thereof has been prepared, approved and acknowledged in the manner
prescribed by this chapter.
   (F)   Zoning permits. No building permits will be considered for issuance by
the City of Slayton for the construction of any building, structure or
improvement to the land or to any lot in a subdivision as defined herein, until
all requirements of this chapter have been fully complied with.
   (G)   Exceptions.
      (1)   When requesting a subdivision, if either of the 2 following
conditions exist, the Zoning Administrator shall bring the request to the
attention of the Planning Commission whereupon, they may review the request and
exempt the subdivider from complying with any procedural requirements of this
chapter which are deemed inappropriate.
      (2)   In the case of a request to divide a lot which is a part of a
recorded plat where the division is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to
an abutting lot or to create 2 lots and the newly created property line will
not cause the other remaining portion of the lot or any structure to be in
violation with this chapter or
Chapter 152 of this code.
      (3)   The division results in all parcels having an area of 5 acres or
more with frontage on a public right-of-way measuring 300 feet of more and when
the division does not necessitate the dedication of a public right-of-way.
   (H)   Conflict. Whenever there is a difference between minimum standards of
dimensions specified herein and those contained in other official regulations,
resolutions or chapters of the city, the highest standards shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 19.101)
§ 151.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY.  A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   BLOCK.  An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, or by streets and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision, or a combination of the above with a river or lake.
   BOULEVARD.  The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line and
the property line.
   CITY.  The City of Slayton.
   CITY COUNCIL.  The governing body of the City of Slayton.
   DESIGN STANDARDS.  The specifications to land owners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other
things, the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of the items as rights-of-
way, blocks, easements and lots.
   EASEMENT.  A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for
the purpose of constructing and maintaining drives and utilities including, but
not limited to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines,
storm sewer or storm drainage ways, gas lines and communication lines.
   FINAL PLAT.  A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all of the
requirements of the city and in the form as required by Murray County for the
purpose of recording.
   LAND USE PLAN.  The document containing maps, texts and policy statements
that addresses the long range development of the City of Slayton.
   LOT.  A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
development or for transfer of ownership.
   OUTLOT.  A lot remnant or parcel of land left over after platting, which is
intended as open space or other use, for which no development is intended.
   OWNER.  Includes the plural as well as the singular, and where appropriate
includes a natural person, partnership, firm association, public or quasi-
public corporation, private corporation, or a combination of them.
   PARKS and PLAYGROUNDS. Are public lands and open spaces in the City of
Slayton dedicated or reserved for recreation purposes.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY.  A public right-of-way or private easement across a block to
provide access for pedestrians and which may be used for the installation of
utilities.
   PERCENTAGE OF GRADE.  On street center line, the distance vertically (up or
down) from the horizontal in feet and tenths of a foot for each 100 feet of
horizontal distance.
   PLANNING COMMISSION.  The Planning Commission of the City of Slayton.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT.  A tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
meeting requirements herein enumerated.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS.  Contracts entered into between private parties and
constitute a restriction of the use of all private property within a
subdivision generally intended for the benefit of the property owners and for
providing mutual protection against undesirable aspects of development which
would tend to impair stability of values.
   SETBACK LINE.  A line within a lot designated on the preliminary plat
between which, and the adjacent street, the erection of an enclosed structure,
or portion thereof is prohibited.
   STREET.  A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue or boulevard.
   STREET, MINOR (LOCAL) STREET.  Those which are used primarily for access to
abutting properties.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS (SERVICE ROAD) STREET.  Minor streets which are
parallel and adjacent to thoroughfares and highways; and which provide access
to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC.  A minor street with only 1 outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   STREET WIDTH.  The shortest distance between lot lines delineating the
street right-of-way.
   STREETS, ARTERIAL.  Those highways or major roads used for high volumes of
traffic, and serving as the major links between the major sub-areas of the
region or community.
   STREETS, COLLECTOR STREET.  Those that carry traffic from minor streets to
the major system of arterials, including the principal entrance streets of
residential districts.
   SUBDIVIDER.  Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership,
corporation, trust or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest
in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to
subdivide the same under this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION.  A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided
into 2 or more lots or parcels, the purpose of transfer of ownership or
building development, or, if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel
of land. The term includes resubdivision and, where it is appropriate to the
context, relates either to the process of subdividing or to the land
subdivided.
(Prior Code, § 19.102)
§ 151.03  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   Filing.
         (a)   Ten copies of the preliminary plat shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator. The required filing fee as established in §
151.10 below shall be paid and any necessary applications for variances from
the provisions of this chapter shall be submitted with the required fee before
the proposed plat shall be considered officially submitted.
         (b)   The proposed plat shall be placed on the agenda of the first
Planning Commission meeting after 10 days from the date of filing. The plat
shall be considered officially submitted when all of the information
requirements are complied with.
      (2)   Hearing.
         (a)   The Planning Commission upon receipt of the application shall
instruct the Zoning Administrator to set a public hearing for the next regular
meeting of the Planning Commission.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall conduct the hearing, and report
its findings and make recommendations to the City Council.
         (c)   Notice of the hearing shall be published in the official
newspaper at least 10 days prior to the hearing and written notification of the
hearing shall be mailed at least 10 days prior to all owners of land within 350
feet of the boundary of the property in question.
      (3)   Technical assistance reports. After the public hearing has been
set, the Zoning Administrator may instruct appropriate city staff to prepare
technical reports, (where appropriate) and provide general assistance in
preparing a recommendation on the action to the City Council.
      (4)   Review by other commissions or jurisdictions. When appropriate, the
Zoning Administrator shall file copies of the preliminary plat with other city
commissions and/or county and state agencies for their review and comment.
      (5)   Report to Council. The Planning Commission shall make a
recommendation to the City Council within 30 days following the close of the
public hearing.
      (6)   City Council Action.
         (a)   If all requirements of this chapter and as additionally imposed
by the Planning Commission are complied with, the Council shall act upon the
preliminary plat within 120 days of the date on which it was officially
submitted. If the recommendation of the Planning Commission has not been
received in time to meet the requirement, the Council may act on the
preliminary plat without the recommendation.
         (b)   If the preliminary plat is not approved by the City Council, the
reasons for the action shall be recorded in the proceedings of the Council and
transmitted to the applicant. If the preliminary plat is approved, the approval
shall not constitute final acceptance of the layout. Subsequent approval will
be required of the engineering proposals and other features and requirements as
specified by this chapter to be indicated on the final plat. The City Council
may require the revisions in the preliminary plat and final plat as it deems
necessary for the health, safety, general welfare and convenience of the City
of Slayton.
         (c)   If the preliminary plat is approved by the City Council, the
subdivider must submit the final plat within 100 days after the approval, or
approval of the preliminary plat shall be considered void, unless a written
request for a time extension is approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Final plat. After the preliminary plat has been approved, the final
plat shall be submitted for approval as follows.
      (1)   Approval of the Planning Commission.
         (a)   Ten copies of the final plat shall be filed with the Zoning
Official for distribution to the Planning Commission, City Council, appropriate
city staff, telephone, power and as companies at least 20 days prior to a
Commission meeting at which the consideration is requested.
         (b)   During the 20 days, the city staff shall examine the final plat
and prepare a recommendation to the Planning Commission. Nature of approval,
disapproval or any delay in decision of the final plat will be conveyed to the
subdivider within 10 days after the meeting of the City Planning Commission at
which the plat was considered.
         (c)   In case the plat is disapproved, the subdivider shall be
notified in writing of the reason for the action and what requirements shall be
necessary to meet the approval of the Commission.
      (2)   Approval of the City Council.
         (a)   After review of the final plat by the Planning Commission and
staff, the final plat, together with the recommendations of the Planning
Commission and staff shall be submitted to the City Council for action.
         (b)   Council shall act in no more than 60 days from submission of
final plat.
         (c)   If accepted, the final plat shall be approved by resolution,
which resolution shall provide for the acceptance of all agreements for basic
improvements, public dedication and other requirements as indicated by the City
Council.
         (d)   If disapproved, the grounds for any refusal to approve a plat
shall be set forth in the proceedings of the Council and reported to the person
or persons applying for the approval.
      (3)   Recordation.
         (a)   If the final plat is approved by the City Council, the
subdivider shall record it with the Murray County Recorder within 100 days
after the approval or approval of the final plat shall be considered void.
         (b)   The subdivider shall, immediately upon recording, furnish the
City Clerk/Administrator with a print and reproducible tracing of the final
plat showing evidence of the recording.
         (c)   No zoning permits shall be let for construction of any structure
on any lot in the plat until the city has received evidence of the plat being
recorded by Murray County.
(Prior Code, § 19.103)
§ 151.04    DATA REQUIRED FOR PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Preliminary plat. The owner or subdivider shall prepare and submit a
preliminary plat, together with any necessary supplementary information. The
preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
      (1)   General provisions:
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision; names shall not duplicate or
closely resemble names of existing subdivisions within Murray County;
         (b)   Location of boundary lines in relation to a known section,
quarter section or quarter-quarter section lines comprising a legal description
of the property;
         (c)   Names and addresses of the owner, developer and the designer or
surveyor making the plat;
         (d)   Scale of plat, not less than 1 inch to 100 feet; and
         (e)   Date of preparation and northpoint.
      (2)   Existing conditions:
         (a)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision, clearly indicated;
         (b)   Existing zoning classifications for land within and abutting the
subdivision;
         (c)   A general statement on the approximate total acreage and
dimensions of the lots;
         (d)   Location, widths and names of all existing or previously platted
streets or other public ways, showing type, width and condition of
improvements, if any, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks and other
public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, easements and section
and corporate lines within the tract and to a distance of 100 feet beyond the
tract;
         (e)   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts or
other underground facilities within the tract and to a distance of 100 feet
beyond the tract. Data as grades, invert elevations and locations of catch
basins, manholes and hydrants shall also be shown;
         (f)   Boundary lines of adjoining un-subdivided or subdivided land,
within 350 feet, identified by name and ownership, including all contiguous
land owned or controlled by the subdivider; and
         (g)   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of
not more than 2 feet. Water courses, marshes, rock outcrops, power transmission
poles and lines and other significant features shall also be shown. U.S.G.S.
data shall be used for all topographic mapping where feasible.
      (3)   Proposed design features:
         (a)   Layout of proposed streets showing the right-of-way widths,
centerline gradients, typical cross sections, and proposed names of streets.
The name of any street heretofore used in the city or its environs shall not be
used unless the proposed street is a logical extension of an already named
street, in which event the same name shall be used;
         (b)   Locations and widths of proposed alleys and pedestrian ways and
utility easements;
         (c)   Typical cross-sections of proposed improvements upon streets and
alleys, together with an indication of the proposed storm water runoff, showing
drainage from other areas that contribute storm waters to proposed plat;
         (d)   Approximate center line gradients of proposed streets and
alleys, and adjoining streets, if any;
         (e)   Locations and size of proposed sewer lines and water mains;
         (f)   Layout, numbers and preliminary dimensions of lots and blocks;
         (g)   Minimum front and side street building setback lines;
         (h)   When lots are located on a curve, the width of the lot at the
building setback line;
         (i)   Areas, other than streets, alleys, pedestrian ways and utility
easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of the area or areas in acres;
         (j)   Water supply. Water mains shall be provided to serve the
subdivision by extension of an existing community system wherever feasible.
Service connections shall be stubbed into the property line and all necessary
fire hydrants shall also be provided. Extensions of the public water supply
system shall be designed so as to provide public water in accordance with the
standards of the City of Slayton. In areas where public water supply is not
available, individual wells shall be provided on each lot, properly placed in
relationship to the individual sewage disposal facilities on the same and
adjoining lots. Well location plans must be in compliance with the State Well
Code and submitted for the approval of the Zoning Official; and
         (k)   Sewage disposal. Sanitary sewer mains and service connections
shall be installed to serve all the lots in the subdivision and shall be
connected to the public system. In areas where public sewer facilities are not
available, individual on-site sewage disposal facilities shall be provided for
each lot, properly located in relation to the wells on the same and adjoining
lots, and the disposal facilities on adjacent lots. Plans for individual on-
site facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the Zoning Official.
      (4)   Supplementary information. The following supplementary information
requirements shall be complied with where they are deemed appropriate and
necessary by the Planning Commission:
         (a)   Proposed protective covenants;
         (b)   Statement of the proposed use of lots stating type of
residential buildings with number of proposed dwelling units and type of
business or industry, so as to reveal the effect of the development on traffic,
fire hazards and congestion of population;
         (c)   An accurate soil survey of the subdivision;
         (d)   If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan
for the areas, including dimensions, shall be shown. The proposed zoning plan
shall be for information only and shall not vest any rights for the applicant;
         (e)   Provision for surface water disposal, drainage and flood
control;
         (f)   Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is
being proposed for the subdivision, the Planning Commission may require that
the subdivider submit a sketch plan of the remainder of the property so as to
show the possible relationships between the proposed subdivision and the future
subdivision. In any event all subdivisions shall be shown to relate well with
existing or potential adjacent subdivisions;
         (g)   Where structures are to be placed on lots which could be re-
subdivided for further development, the preliminary plat shall indicate
placement of structures so that the lot may be further subdivided;
         (h)   A plan for soil erosion and sediment control both during
construction and after development has been completed. The plan shall include
gradients of waterways, design of velocity and erosion control measures, and
landscaping of the erosion and sediment control systems;
         (i)   A vegetation preservation and protection plan that shows those
trees proposed to be removed those to remain, the types and locations of trees
and other vegetation that are to be planted; and
         (j)   Other information as may be requested by the city staff,
Planning Commission or City Council.
   (B)   Final plat. The owner or subdivider shall submit a final plat together
with any necessary supplementary information.
      (1)   Contents. The final plat, prepared for recording purposes, shall be
prepared in accordance with provisions of Minnesota State Statutes and Murray
County regulations. The final plat shall be drawn at a scale of 1 inch equals
100 feet and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Location by section, township, range, county and state, and
including descriptive boundaries of the subdivision, based on an accurate
traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions which must mathematically close.
The allowable error closure on any portion of a final plat shall be 1 foot in
7,500;
         (b)   The location of monuments shall be shown and described on the
final plat. Locations of the monuments shall be shown in reference to existing
official monuments on the nearest established street lines, including true
angles and distances to the reference points or monuments;
         (c)   Location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks and
other features, with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the
length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground shall be shown. Dimensions shall
be shown from all angle points of curve to lot lines;
         (d)   Lots shall be numbered clearly. Blocks are to be numbered with
numbers shown clearly in the center of the block;
         (e)   The acreage of each lot and parcel of land, other than streets;
         (f)   The exact locations, widths and names of all streets to be
dedicated;
         (g)   Name and address of surveyor making the plat;
         (h)   Location and width of all easements to be dedicated;
         (i)   Scale of plat (the scale to be shown graphically on a bar
scale), date and northpoint;
         (j)   Statement dedicating all easements as follows: easements for
installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved
over, under and along the strips marked “utility easements;” and
         (k)   Statement dedicating all streets, alleys and other public areas
not previously dedicated as follows: streets, alleys and other public areas
shown on this plat and not heretofore dedicated to public use are hereby so
dedicated.
      (2)   Certification required.
         (a)   Certification by registered surveyor in the form required by
Minnesota Statutes, as amended.
         (b)   Execution of all owners of any interest in the land and any
holders of a mortgage thereon of the certificates required by Minnesota
Statutes, as amended and which certificate shall include a dedication of the
utility easements and other public areas in the form as approved by the City
Council.
         (c)   Space for certificates of approval and review to be filled in by
the signatures of the Chairperson of the City Planning Commission and the Mayor
and City Clerk/Administrator. The form of certificate by the Planning
Commission is as follows:
Reviewed by the Planning Commission of the City of Slayton.
This _______ day of _____________, 20___.
Signed: ___________________________
Chairperson
Attest: ____________________________
Secretary
The form of approval of the City Council is as follows: Approved by the City of
Slayton, Minnesota this _________ day of __________________, 20___.
Signed: ___________________________
Mayor
Attest: ____________________________
City Clerk/Administrator
(Prior Code, § 19.104)
§ 151.05  DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Blocks.
      (1)   General. Block length and width of acreage within bounding roads
shall be so as to accommodate the size of residential lots required in the area
by
Chapter 152 of this code and to provide for convenient access, circulation
control and safety of street traffic. Blocks intended for commercial,
institutional and industrial use must be designated as so.
      (2)   Block length. In general, intersecting streets, determining block
lengths, shall be provided at intervals so as to serve cross-traffic adequately
and to meet existing streets. Where no existing plats control, the blocks in a
residential subdivision should not exceed 1,320 feet in length, except where
topography or other conditions justify a departure from this maximum. In blocks
longer than 800 feet, pedestrian ways and/or easements through the block may be
required near the center of the block. Blocks for business or industrial use
should normally not exceed 1,320 feet in length.
      (3)   Block width. The width of the block should be sufficient to allow 2
tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business or industrial
use shall be of a width so as to be considered most suitable for their
respective use, including adequate space for off-street parking and deliveries.
   (B)   Lots.
      (1)   The minimum lot area, width and depth shall not be less than that
established by
Chapter 152 of this code in effect at the time of adoption of the final plat,
except for cul-de-sac lots which may have a front lot width of not less than 75
feet.
      (2)   Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles to street
lines of radial to curved street lines.
      (3)   Every lot must have its full frontage abutting on a city approved
street other than an alley.
      (4)   Setback or building lines shall be shown on all lots and shall not
be less than the setback required by
Chapter 152 of this code.
      (5)   Lots abutting upon a water course, drainage way, channel or stream
shall have an additional depth and/or width as required to assure house sites
are not subject to flooding.
      (6)   In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown for all
natural features, such as tree growth, water courses, historic spots or similar
conditions which if preserved will add attractiveness and stability to the
proposed development
      (7)   All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after subdividing
of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots, rather than allowed to remain
as unusable parcels.
      (8)   No plat shall extend over a political boundary or school district
line.
      (9)   Double-frontage, or lots with frontage on 2 parallel streets, shall
not be permitted except: where lots back on arterial streets or highways, or
where topographic or other conditions render subdividing otherwise
unreasonable. These double-frontage lots shall have an additional depth of at
least 20 feet in order to allow space for screen planting along the back lot
line.
   (C)   Streets and alleys.
      (1)   Except for cul-de-sacs, streets shall connect with streets already
dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions, or provide for future
connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts, or shall be a reasonable
projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts. The arrangement of
arterials and collector streets shall be considered in their relation to the
reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions, to run-off of
storm water, to public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate
relation to the proposed uses of the area to be served.
      (2)   Minor streets should be so planned as to discourage their use by
non-local traffic. Dead end streets are prohibited, but cul-de-sacs shall be
permitted where topography or other physical conditions justify their use. Cul-
de-sacs shall not be longer than 500 feet, including a terminal turnaround
which shall be provided at the closed end, with an outside curb radius of at
least 50 feet and a right-of-way radius of not less than 66 feet.
      (3)   Where the plat to be submitted includes only part of the tract
owned or intended-for development by the subdivider, a tentative plan of a
proposed future street system for the unsubdivided portion shall be prepared
and submitted by the subdivider.
      (4)   When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or
parcels, the lots or parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical
location and openings of future streets and appropriate resubdivision, with
provision for adequate utilities, connections for the re-subdivision.
      (5)   Under normal conditions, streets shall be laid out so as to
intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, except where topography or
other conditions justify variations. Under normal conditions, the minimum angle
of intersection of streets shall be 80 degrees. Street intersection jogs with
an offset of less than 125 feet shall be avoided.
      (6)   Wherever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to the
right-of-way of a United States or state highway, arterial or railroad,
provision may be made for a marginal access street approximately parallel and
adjacent to the boundary of the right-of-way, or for a street at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of land between the street and right-of-way.
The distance shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance
required for approach connections to future grade separations, or for lot
depths.
      (7)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts,
except that this requirement may be waived where other definite and assured
provisions are made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading
and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed. Except where
justified by special conditions, such as the continuation of an existing alley
in the same block or where necessitated by the lack of alternative adequate
off-street loading space. Deadend alleys shall be avoided wherever possible,
but if unavoidable, the deadend alleys may be approved if adequate turnaround
facilities are provided at the closed end.
      (8)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations; and where the City Council finds it will be
practical to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided.
      (9)   (a)   For all public ways hereafter dedicated and/or accepted, the
minimum right-of-way and paved width for streets, alleys or pedestrian ways
included in any subdivision shall not be less than the minimum dimensions for
each classification as follows:
 
Street                                        Right-of-Way Paved
Arterial street                               100 feet     52 feet
Collector street                              70 feet      42 feet
Minor street                                  60 feet      36 feet
Cul-de-sac or marginal access service streets 60 feet      36 feet
Alleys                                        20 feet      20 feet
 
         (b)   Where the existing or anticipated traffic on streets warrants
greater widths of rights-of-way or paved surface, these shall be required.
      (10)   Except when, under the recommendation of the City Zoning 
Administrator that the topography warrants a greater maximum, the grades in all
streets, arterials, collector streets, minor streets and alleys in any
subdivision shall not be greater than 8%. In addition, there shall be a minimum
grade on all streets and thoroughfares of not less that 0.5%.
      (11)   Tangents of at least 50 feet in length shall be introduced between
reverse curves on collector streets.
      (12)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited
except under conditions accepted by the City Council.
      (13)   Private streets shall not be approved nor shall public
improvements be approved for any private street.
      (14)   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any 1
point by more than 10 degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a radius
adequate to ensure a sight distance of not less than 300 feet for minor and
collector streets, and of a greater radius as the City Council shall determine
for special cases.
      (15)   Different connecting street gradients shall be connected with
vertical parabolic curves. Minimum length, in feet, of these curves, shall be
100 feet.
   (D)   Easements.
      (1)   Provision for utilities. Easements at least 10 feet wide, centered
on rear and other lot lines, shall be provided for utilities, where necessary.
They shall have continuity of alignment from block to block, and at deflection
points, easements for pole-line anchors shall be provided where necessary.
      (2)   Provisions for drainage. Easements shall be provided along each
side of the center line of any water course or drainage channel, to a width
sufficient in the judgement of the City Council to provide proper maintenance
and protection and to provide for storm water runoff and installation and
maintenance of storm sewers, and they shall be dedicated to the city by
appropriate language in the owner’s certificate.
   (E)   Erosion and sediment control.
      (1)   The development shall conform to the natural limitations presented
by topography and soil so as to create at least potential for soil erosion.
      (2)   Erosion and siltation control measures shall be coordinated with
the different stages of construction. Appropriate control measures shall be
installed prior to development when necessary to control erosion.
      (3)   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size so that
adequate erosion and siltation controls can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any 1
period of time.
      (4)   When soil is exposed, the exposure shall be for the shortest
feasible period of time.
      (5)   Where the topsoil is removed, sufficient arable soil shall be set
aside for re-spreading over the developed area. The soil shall be restored to a
depth of 4 inches and shall be of a quality at least equal to the soil quality
prior to development.
   (F)   Drainage.
      (1)   Where municipal storm sewer systems do not exist, or the
introduction of the system is deemed inappropriate by the City Council, storm
water drainage shall be discharged to marshlands, swamps, retention basins or
other treatment facilities.
      (2)   Diversion of storm water to marshlands or swamps shall be
considered for existing or planned surface drainage. Marshlands and swamps used
for storm water shall provide for natural or artificial water level control.
      (3)   No existing ditch, stream, drain, pond or drainage canal shall be
deepened, widened, rerouted or filled without written permission from the City
Council.
      (4)   Where artificial channels must be constructed to augment the
natural drainage system, the channels as well as the natural drainage ways may
be planned as part of a recreation system.
      (5)   The drainage system shall be constructed and operational during the
initial phases of construction.
   (G)   Protected areas.
      (1)   Where land proposed for subdivision contains drainage ways, water
courses, floodable areas, wetlands or steep slopes and thus may be unsuitable
for development, the platting of those areas shall be consistent with
limitations presented by the conditions.
      (2)   Subdivisions shall be designed so that not more than 25% of the
minimum lot area contains wetland soil types, water bodies, water courses,
drainage ways or flood ways areas, or is unusable due to steep slopes (over
18%). Also, no construction or grading will be conducted on slopes steeper than
18% in grade.
(Prior Code, § 19.105)
§ 151.06     PARKS, OPEN SPACE AND PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.358 Subdivision 2(b) as it may be amended from
time to time, the City Council of the City of Slayton may require that a
reasonable portion of any proposed subdivision be dedicated to the public or
preserved for public use as streets, roads, parks, playgrounds, public open
space, trail systems, sewer, electric, gas and water facilities or storm water,
water drainage and holding areas or to contribute an equivalent amount of cash,
based upon the conditions outlined below. The form of contribution (cash or
land, or any combination of) shall be decided by the City Council based upon
need and conformance with approved city plans.
   (B)   All monies collected from cash contributions shall be placed in a
special fund from which only those public uses, as listed in division (A) above
may be constructed or improved, or land for those same uses may be acquired.
   (C)   Upon petition by the subdivider, the Council may approve a delay in
the actual dedication of the cash required in lieu of land until a time that
development occurs on the property being platted provided that a proper legal
agreement is executed guaranteeing the dedication. Delayed dedication payment
shall include 8% interest per year.
   (D)   Where a proposed park, playground or other recreational areas,
proposed school site or other public around that has been indicated in the
official map and/or master plan is located in whole or in part within a
proposed subdivision the proposed public site shall be designated as so and
should be dedicated to the city, school district or other proper governmental
unit. If the subdivider chooses not to dedicate an area in excess of the land
required under this section hereof for the proposed public site, the Council
shall not be required to act to approve or disapprove the plat of the
subdivision for a period of 90 days after the subdivider meets all the
provisions of the Subdivision Chapter in order to permit the Council, School
Board or other appropriate governmental unit to consider the proposed plat and
to take the necessary steps to acquire, through purchase or condemnation all or
part of the public site proposed under the official map or master plan.
   (E)   In the cases where the subdivider is required to dedicate land area,
the City Council of the City of Slayton shall have the right to determine the
geographic location and configuration of the dedication.
(Prior Code, § 19.106)
§ 151.07     REQUIRED AGREEMENTS AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Agreement procedure.
      (1)   Before a final plat is approved by the City Council, the owner and
subdivider of the land covered by the plat may execute and submit to the
Council an agreement to make and install within 1 year, all improvements
required to be installed by him or her under the provisions of this chapter, in
accordance with the time table and plans and specifications therefore to be
prepared or approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The agreement (hereinafter sometimes referred to as development
contract) may be accompanied by a cash escrow equal to the Zoning
Administrator’s estimated cost for completing the improvements, or a corporate
performance bond (sometimes referred to as a subdivision bond) to be approved
by the city, in an amount to 1-1/2 times the Zoning Administrator’s estimated
cost of the improvement.
      (3)   The performance bond or cash escrow shall be conditioned upon:
         (a)   The making and installing of the improvements required under
terms of the chapter within the 1-year period, unless the 1-year period is
extended by the city;
         (b)   Completion of the work undertaken by the owner or subdivider in
accordance with the development contract executed by him or her and for him or
her; and
         (c)   The payment by the subdivider to the city of all expenses
incurred by the city, which expenses shall include but not be limited to
expenses for engineering, fiscal or legal services, construction and
administration. In instances where a cash escrow is submitted in lieu of a
corporate performance bond, there shall be a cash escrow agreement which shall
provide that in the event the required improvements are not completed within 1
year, all amounts held under the cash escrow agreement shall be automatically
turned over and delivered to the city and applied by the city to the cost of
completing the required improvements. If the funds available within the cash
escrow agreement are not sufficient to complete the required improvements, the
necessary additional cost to the city shall be assessed against the
subdivision. Any balance remaining in the cash escrow fund after the
improvements have been made and all expenses therefore have been paid, shall be
returned to subdivider. In instances where a corporate performance bond is
issued in lieu of a cash escrow, the bond shall be in a form acceptable to the
city and shal1 comply with all requirements as set forth in Minnesota Statutes
as amended, which statutes relate to surety bonds.
   (B)   Inspection. All required land improvements to be installed under the
provisions of this chapter shall be inspected at the subdivider’s expense
during the course of construction. The inspection shall be by the Zoning
Administrator or an inspector appointed by the Council.
   (C)   Zoning permits. No zoning permit shall be issued by any governing
official for the construction of any building, structure or improvement on any
land required to be subdivided by this chapter until all requirements of this
chapter have been fully complied with.
   (D)   Required improvements; general.
      (1)   No final plat shall be approved by the Council without first
receiving a report signed by the Zoning Official and the City Attorney
certifying that the improvements described therein together with the required
agreements meet the requirements of the city. The City Clerk/Administrator
shall also certify that all fees required to be paid to the city in connection
with the plat have been paid.
      (2)   The City of Slayton shall, where appropriate, require of a
subdivider submission of a warranty bond in the amount equal to the original
cost of the improvements, which shall be in force for 1 year following the
final acceptance of any required improvements and shall guarantee satisfactory
performance of the improvements.
      (3)   Reproducible as built drawings as may be required by the Zoning
Official shall be furnished to the city by the subdivider of all required
improvements. The as built drawings shall be certified to be true and accurate
by the registered engineer responsible for the installation of the improvement.
      (4)   No final plat shall be approved by the City Council on land subject
to flooding or containing poor drainage facilities, and on land which would
make adequate drainage of the streets and lots impossible. However, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the Zoning
Official, make the area completely safe for residential occupancy and provide
adequate street and lot drainage and conform to applicable regulations of other
agencies such as the United States Corps of Engineers, or the Department of
Natural Resources, the final plat of the subdivision may be approved. In
addition, the plats may not be approved if the cost of providing municipal
services to protect the flood plain area would impose an unreasonable economic
burden upon the city.
   (E)   Monuments.
      (1)   Official monuments, as designated and adopted by the Murray County
surveyor’s office and approved by the Murray County District Court for use as
judicial monuments, shall be set at each corner of angle on the outside
boundary of the final plat. The boundary line of the property to be included
with the plat is to be fully dimensioned with all angles of the boundary,
excepting the closing angle to be indicated. All monuments and surveyor’s irons
to be indicated and each angle point of the boundary perimeter is to be so
monumented.
      (2)   Pipes or steel rods shall be placed at each lot and at each
intersection of street center lines. All United States, state, county or other
official bench marks, monuments or triangular stations in or adjacent to the
property shall be preserved in precise position and shall be recorded on the
plat. All lot and block dimensions shall be shown on the plat and all necessary
angles pertaining to the lots and blocks, as an aid to future surveys shall be
shown on the plat. No ditto marks shall be permitted in indicating dimensions.
      (3)   To ensure that all irons and monuments are correctly in place
following the final grading of a plat, second monumentation shall be required.
Proof of the second monumentation shall be in the form of a surveyor’s
certificate of occupancy as provided for in
Chapter 152.
   (F)   Street improvements.
      (1)   The full width of the right-of-way shall be graded, including the
subgrade of the areas to be paved, in accordance with standards and
specifications for street construction as outlined in §
151.05 above.
      (2)   All streets shall be improved with pavement in accordance with the
standards and specifications for street construction as required by the City
Council.
      (3)   All streets to be surfaced shall be of an overall width in
accordance with the standards and specifications for construction as approved
by the City Council. The portion of the right-of-way outside the area surfaced
shall be sodded or riprapped by the developer if deemed necessary.
      (4)   If deemed necessary, curb and/or gutter will be required on all
streets according to specifications for street construction as set forth and
approved by the City Council. Each lot will be provided with a driveway
entrance. All curb corners shall have a radius of not less than 15 feet except
at collector and marginal access streets where they shall be not less than 25
feet.
      (5)   The grade and drainage requirements for each plat shall be
established by the Zoning Administrator at the expense of the applicant. Every
plat presented for final signature shall be accompanied by a certificate of the
Zoning Administrator that the grade and drainage requirements have been met. In
an area not having municipal trunk storm sewer, the applicant shall be
responsible, before platting, to provide a storm water disposal plan, without
damage to properties outside the platted area, and the storm water disposal
plan shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator who shall report to the
City Council on the feasibility of the plan presented.
      (6)   Street trees limited to Green Ash, Linden and long-lived hardwood
shade trees other than Elm or Box-Elder may be planted along all streets. These
shall be planted in at least 1 cubic yard of growing soil. Boulevard sodding
shall be planted in conformance with the standards and specifications as
required by the City Council.
      (7)   Street signs of the standard design as may be required by the City
Council shall be installed at each street intersection.
      (8)   Driveway approaches and/or sidewalks of standard design or
pedestrian pathways as may be required by the City Council shall be installed.
      (9)   Street lighting fixtures as may be required by the City Council
shall be installed.
   (G)   Public utilities.
      (1)   Placement of lines. All the utility lines for telephone and
electric service shall be placed in rear-line easements when carried on
overhead poles.
      (2)   Underground lines.
         (a)   Where telephone, electric and gas service lines are placed
underground entirely throughout a subdivided area, conduits or cables shall be
placed within easements or dedicated public ways in a manner which will not
conflict with other underground service.
         (b)   Further transformer boxes shall be located so as not to be
hazardous to the public.
         (c)   All drainage and underground utility installations which
traverse privately owned property shall be protected by easements.
   (H)   City election to install improvements. The city may, in its
discretion, elect to install all or any part of the improvements required under
the provisions of this chapter in lieu of requiring the subdivider to install
the improvements.
(Prior Code, § 19.107)
§ 151.08     REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS AND CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   (A)   Registered land surveys.
      (1)   It is the intention of this chapter that all registered land
surveys in the City of Slayton should be presented to the Planning Commission
in the form of a preliminary plat in accordance with the standards set forth in
this chapter for preliminary plats and that the Planning Commission shall first
approve the arrangement, sizes and relationship of proposed tracts in the
registered land surveys, and that tracts to be used as easements or roads
should be so dedicated.
      (2)   Unless a recommendation and approval have been obtained from the
Planning Commission and City Council respectively, in accordance with the
standards set forth in this chapter, zoning permits will be withheld for
buildings on tracts which have been so subdivided by registered land surveys
and the city may refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads or to improve,
repair or maintain any like tracts unless so approved.
   (B)   Conveyance by metes and bounds.
      (1)   No conveyance of 2 or more parcels in which the land conveyed is
described by metes and bounds shall be made or recorded if a parcel described
in the conveyance is 5 acres or less in area and 300 feet in width or less,
unless the parcel was a separate parcel of record at the effective date of this
chapter.
      (2)   Zoning permits will be withheld for buildings on tracts which have
been subdivided and conveyed by this method and the city may refuse to take
over tracts as streets or roads or to improve, repair or maintain any like
tracts.
(Prior Code, § 19.108)
§ 151.09     VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend a variance from the provisions
of this chapter when, in its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict
compliance.
   (B)   In recommending any variance, the Commission shall prescribe only
conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable for the public interest.
   (C)   In making its recommendations, the Planning Commission shall take into
account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing use of land in
the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed
subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity.
   (D)   A variance shall only be recommended when the Planning Commission
finds:
      (1)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property so that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which
property is situated; and
      (3)   That the variance is to correct inequities resulting from an
extreme physical hardship such as topography and the like.
   (E)   After consideration of the Planning Commission recommendations, the
City Council may grant variances, subject to divisions (D)(1), (2) and (3)
above.
   (F)   Any recommendations for variances to the City Council in connection
with the acceptance of the final plat of a subdivision shall be made through
the Planning Commission.
   (G)   The application for any variance shall be made in writing at the time
when the preliminary plat is filed. The application shall include the specific
variances requested, the location of those variances and how it varies from the
provisions of the chapter.
   (H)   The written application shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
for their advice and recommendation, and the Planning Commission shall report
on the provisions set forth above. The Planning Commission shall submit their
recommendations to the City Council within 60 days after receiving the written
application from the Zoning Administrator. The granting of a variance shall
require the affirmative vote of 4/5 of the full Council
(Prior Code, § 19.109)
§ 151.10     FEES.
   (A)   To defray administrative costs for processing of subdivision
applications, variances or appeals, a base fee as set by ordinance per
applications shall be paid by all applicants.
   (B)   In order to defray the additional cost of processing the applications,
all applicants shall pay the total cost of staff and/or consulting time spent
exclusively in producing materials for the applicant’s request, plus all
material costs for the request.
      (1)   MATERIALS  include, but are not limited to maps, graphs, charts,
drawings and the like and all printing or reproduction of same.
      (2)   STAFF AND/OR CONSULTING TIME  includes any time spent in either
researching for or actual production of materials.
      (3)   The hourly rate for “staff and/or consulting time” shall be
established and made available to the applicant by the City Clerk/Administrator
prior to production of any materials and the applicant shall be given a
reasonable estimate of projected time and/or material costs.
   (C)   Fees shall be payable at the time the preliminary plat is submitted to
the City Clerk/Administrator and are not refundable unless application is
withdrawn prior to referral to the Planning Commission.
   (D)   A deposit to cover staff or consulting time and special materials may
be established and required by the Zoning Administrator at the time the base
fee is paid.
   (E)   Where the costs of staff and/or consulting time exceed the initial
deposit, monthly billing statements shall be forwarded to and subsequently paid
in full by the applicant within 30 days of receipt.
   (F)   No application for plat approval shall be granted or approved until
all fee statement balances are paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 19.110)
§ 151.11     VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Sale of lots from unrecorded plats. It shall be unlawful to sell,
trade or offer to sell, trade or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of land as
a part of, or in conformity with any plan, plat or replat or any subdivision or
area located within the jurisdiction of this chapter unless the plan, plat or
replat shall have first been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of
Murray County.
   (B)   Receiving or recording unapproved plats.  It shall be unlawful to
receive or record in any public office any plans, plats or replats of land laid
out in building lots and streets, alleys or other portions of the same intended
to be dedicated to public or private use, or for the use or purchasers or
owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto and located within the
jurisdiction of this chapter, unless the same shall bear thereon, by
endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   Misrepresentation as to construction, supervision or inspection of
improvements. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning
an addition or subdivision of land within the city to represent that any
improvement, upon any of the streets, alleys or avenues of the addition or
subdivision or any sewer in the addition or subdivision, has been constructed
according to the plans and specifications approved by the City Council, or has
been supervised or inspected by the city when the improvements have not been so
constructed, supervised or inspected.
(Prior Code, § 19.101) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 152:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Title and application
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   General provisions
   
152.04   General district provisions
   
152.05   Opt-out of M.S. § 462.3593
Districts
   
152.15   A-O Agricultural-Open Space District
   
152.16   R-1 Low Density Residential District
   
152.17   R-2 Medium Density Residential
   
152.18   R-3 Mobile Home Residential District
   
152.19   R-M Mobile Home Park District
   
152.20   B-1 Highway Business District
   
152.21   B-2 Central Business District
   
152.22   I-1 General Industrial District
   
152.23   PUD Planned Unit Development District
   
152.24   Planned Unit Development regulations
   
152.25   W Wetland Systems District
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.40   General administration
   
152.41   Amendment and conditional use permits
   
152.42   Variances and appeals
   
152.43   Planning Commission
   
152.44   Fees
Cross-references:
   Building regulations, see
Ch. 150
   Subdivision regulations, see
Ch. 151
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01     TITLE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the Slayton Zoning Ordinance
except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as this chapter.
   (B)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The intent of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety
and general welfare of the community and its people through the establishment
of minimum regulations governing development and use. This chapter shall divide
the city into use districts and establish regulations in regard to location,
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and use of structures and
land.
      (2)   The regulations are established to protect the use areas; to
promote orderly development and redevelopment; to provide adequate light, air
and convenience of access to property; to prevent congestion in the public
right-of-way; to prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures by regulating land, buildings, yards and density of population; to
provide for compatibility of different land uses; to provide for administration
of this chapter; to provide for amendments; to prescribe penalties for
violation of the regulations; and to define powers and duties of the city
staff, the Board of Adjustment, the Planning Commission and the City Council in
relation to this chapter.
   (C)   Standard requirement. Where the conditions imposed by any provisions
of this chapter are either more or less restrictive than comparable conditions
imposed by other ordinances, rules or regulations of the city, the ordinance,
rule or regulation which imposes the more restrictive condition, standard or
requirements shall prevail.
   (D)   Minimum requirements. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety and welfare.
   (E)   Conformance requirement. No structure shall be erected, converted,
enlarged, reconstructed or altered, and no structure or land shall be used for
any purpose or in any manner that is not in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (F)   Use; conformance. Except as herein provided, no building, structure or
premises shall hereafter be used or occupied and no zoning permit shall be
granted that does not conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Uses not provided for within zoning districts.
      (1)   Whenever in any zoning district a use is neither specifically
permitted nor denied, the use shall be considered prohibited.
      (2)   In that case the City Council or the Planning Commission, on their
own initiative or upon request, may conduct a study to determine if the use is
acceptable and if so what zoning district would be most appropriate and the
determination as to conditions and standards relating to development of the
use.
      (3)   The City Council, Planning Commission or property owner, upon
receipt of the staff study shall, if appropriate, initiate an amendment to this
chapter to provide for the particular use under consideration or shall find
that the use is not compatible for development within the city.
   (H)   Authority. This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted
by the Municipal Planning Act, M.S. §§ 462.351 to 462.364, as they may be
amended from time to time.
   (I)   Separability. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city
that the several provisions of this chapter are separable in accordance with
the following:
      (1)   If any court or competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision
of this chapter to be invalid, that judgment shall not affect any other
provisions of this chapter not specifically included in the judgment; and
      (2)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property, building
or other structure, the judgment shall not affect the application of the
provision to any other property, building or structure not specifically
included in the judgment.
(Prior Code, § 18.101)
§ 152.02     DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE.  A subordinate building or use which is located
on the same lot on which the main building or use is situated and which is
reasonably necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary use of the
building or main use.
   ADDRESS SIGN.  A sign communicating street address only, whether written or
in numerical form.
   ADVERTISING SIGNS.  A billboard, poster panel board, painted bulletin board
or other communicative device which is used to advertise products, goods and/or
services which are not exclusively related to the premise on which the sign is
located.
   AGRICULTURE.  Those uses commonly associated with the growing of produce on
farms. These include: field crop farming; pasture for hay; fruit growing; tree,
plant, shrub or flower nursery without building; truck gardening; roadside
stand for sale in season of products grown on premises; and livestock raising
and feeding, but not including fur farms, commercial animal feed lots and
kennels.
   ALLEY.  A public right-of-way less than 30 feet in width which affords
secondary access to abutting property.
   APARTMENT.
      (1)   A room or suite of rooms that is designed for, intended for or
occupied as a residence by a single family or an individual, and is equipped
with cooking facilities.
      (2)   Includes dwelling unit and efficiency unit.
   AREA IDENTIFICATION SIGN.  A free standing sign which identifies the name of
a neighborhood, a residential subdivision, a multiple residential complex
consisting of 3 or more structures, a shopping center consisting of 5 or more
separate business concerns, an industrial area, an office complex consisting of
3 or more structures or any combination of the above, located on contiguous
property.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR; MAJOR.  General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning
engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint job; vehicle steam
cleaning.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR; MINOR.  Minor repairs, incidental body and fender work,
painting and upholstering, replacement of parts and motor services to passenger
automobiles and trucks not exceeding 9,000 pounds gross weight, but not
including any operation specified under AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR.
   BASEMENT.  A portion of a building located partially underground, but having
less than 1/2 of its floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground. This portion is not a completed structure and serves as a
substructure or foundation for a building.
   BOARDING HOUSE.  A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and
by prearrangement for definite periods, meals and/or lodging are provided to 3
or more persons, not of the principal family therein, pursuant to previous
arrangements and not to anyone who may apply.
   BUILDABLE AREA.  The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   BUILDING.  Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING HEIGHT.  A distance to be measured from the mean ground level to
the top of a flat roof, to the mean distance of the highest gable on a pitched
or hip roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, to the uppermost level on all
other roof types.
   BUSINESS.  Any establishment, occupation, employment or enterprise where
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited or sold, or where services are offered
for compensation.
   BUSINESS SIGN.  Any sign which identifies a business or group of businesses,
either retail or wholesale, or any sign which identifies a profession or is
used in the identification or promotion of any principal commodity or service,
including entertainment, offered or sold upon the premise where the sign is
located.
   CANOPY and MARQUEE SIGNS.  Any message or identification which is affixed to
projection or extension of a building or structure, erected in a manner so as
to provide a shelter or cover over the approach to any entrance of a store,
building or place of assembly.
   CARPORT.  A canopy constructed of metal or other materials supported by
posts either ornamental or solid and completely open on 3 sides.
   CHURCH.  A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
   CLUB or LODGE.  A club or lodge is a non-profit association of persons who
are bona-fide members paying annual dues, use of premises being restricted to
members and their guests. It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on
the premises providing adequate dining roam space and kitchen facilities are
available. Serving of alcoholic beverages to members and their quests shall be
allowed, providing the serving is secondary and incidental to the operation of
the dining room for the purpose of serving food and meals and providing further
that the serving of alcoholic beverages is in compliance with the applicable
federal, state and municipal laws.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION.  Bowling alley, cart track, jump center, golf, pool
hall, vehicle racing or amusement, dance hall, skating, trampoline, theater,
fire arms range, amusement rides, campgrounds and similar uses.
   CONDITIONAL USE.  A use, which because of special problems of control the
use presents, requires reasonable, but special, unusual and extraordinary
limitations peculiar to the use for the protection of the public welfare and
the integrity of the municipal land use plan.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.  A permit issued by the Council in accordance with
procedures specified in this chapter, as a flexibility device to enable the
Council to assign dimensions to a proposed use or conditions surrounding it
after consideration of adjacent uses and their functions and the special
problems which the proposed use presents.
   CONDOMINIUM.  A multiple dwelling containing individually owned dwelling
units and jointly owned and shared areas and facilities, which dwelling is
subject to the provisions of the Minnesota Condominium Law, M.S. §§ 515.01 to
515.19, as they may be amended from time to time.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN.  A non-illuminated sign announcing the names of
architects, engineers, contractors or other individuals or firms involved with
the construction, alteration or repair of a building (but not including any
advertisement of any product) or announcing the character of the building
enterprise, or the purpose of which the building is intended.
   CONVENIENCE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.  An establishment that serves food in or on
disposable containers in individual servings for consumption on or off the
premises.
   DAY CARE FACILITY.
      (1)   Any facility licensed by the Commissioner of Public Welfare, public
or private which for gain or otherwise, regularly provides 1 or more
individuals with care, training, supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation or
developmental guidance on a regular basis, for periods of less than 24 hours
per day, in an individual’s home or another location.
      (2)   DAY CARE FACILITIES include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Family day care homes (5 children or less);
         (b)   Group family day care homes (6 to 10 children);
         (c)   Day care centers (11 or more children instructional); and
         (d)   Developmental achievement center (D.A.C. developmentally
disabled children and adults).
   DEPARTMENT STORE.  A business which is conducted under a single owner’s name
wherein a variety of unrelated merchandise and services are housed, enclosed,
exhibited and sold directly to the customer for whom the goods and services are
furnished.
   DISTRICT.  A section or sections of the city for which the regulations and
provisions governing the use of buildings and lands are uniform for each class
of use permitted therein.
   DOG KENNEL.  Any place where 3 dogs or more over 6 months of age are
boarded, bred and/or offered for sale, except a veterinary clinic.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT.  An establishment which accommodates the patron’s
automobile from which the occupants may receive a service or in which products
purchased from the establishment may be consumed.
   DWELLING.  A building designed exclusively for residential occupancy,
including 1-family, 2-family and multi-family dwellings, but not including
hotels, motels and boarding houses.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.  A building designed with 3 or more families
living independently of each other but sharing hallways and main entrances and
exits.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY.  A detached dwelling unit designed exclusively for
occupancy by 1 family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.  A dwelling designed exclusively for occupancy by 2
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT.  A building or portion thereof, designed for residential
occupancy, but not including hotels, motels, nursing homes, seasonal cabins,
boarding or rooming houses, tourist homes or trailers.
   EARTH-SHELTERED BUILDING.
      (1)   A building constructed so that 50% or more of the completed
structure is covered with earth.
      (2)   An EARTH-SHELTERED BUILDING is a completed structure that does not
serve just as a foundation or substructure for aboveground construction.
      (3)   A partially completed building shall not be considered an EARTH-
SHELTERED STRUCTURE.
   EFFICIENCY APARTMENT.  A dwelling unit consisting of 1 principal room
exclusive of bathroom, hallway, closets or dining alcove.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES.  The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance
of underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or
distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems by
public utilities, municipal or other governmental agencies, but not including
buildings.
   FAMILY.  One or more persons each related to the other by blood, marriage,
adoption or foster care, or a group of not more than 4 persons not so related
maintaining a common household and using common cooking and kitchen facilities.
   FLOOR AREA.  The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of
the building or portion thereof devoted to a particular use, including
accessory storage areas located within selling or working space such as
counters, racks or closets and any basement floor area devoted to retailing
activities, to the production or processing of goods, or to business or
professional offices. However, the FLOOR AREA shall not include basement floor
area, other than area devoted to retailing activities, the production or
processing of goods, or business or professional offices.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE.  An accessory building or accessory portion of the
principal building which is intended for and used to store the private
passenger vehicles of the family or families residing upon the premises, and in
which no business service or industry is carried on; provided that not more
than 1/2 of the space may be rented for the private vehicles of persons not
residing on the premises.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC.  A building or portion of a building, except any herein
defined as a private garage or as a repair garage, used for the storage of
motor vehicles, or where any like vehicles are kept for remuneration or hire
and in which any sale of gasoline, oil and accessories is only incidental to
the principal use.
   GOVERNMENTAL SIGN.  A sign that is erected by a governmental unit for the
purpose of identification and directing or guiding traffic.
   GRADE.  The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground,
paving or sidewalk within the area between the building and the property line,
or when the property line is more than 5 feet from the building, between the
building and a line 5 feet from the building.
   GRADING.  Changing the natural or existing topography of land.
   GUEST ROOM.  A room occupied by 1 or more guests for compensation and in
which no provision is made for cooking but not including rooms in a dormitory
for sleeping purposes primarily.
   HOME OCCUPATION.  Any occupation of a service character which is clearly
secondary to the main use of the premises as a residence and does not change
the character thereof or have any exterior evidence of the secondary use.
   HOTEL.  Any building or portion thereof occupied as the more or less
temporary abiding place of individuals and containing more than 10 guest rooms,
used, designated or intended to be used, let or hired out to be occupied, or
which are occupied by more than 10 individuals for compensation, whether the
compensation be paid directly or indirectly.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGNS.  Signs in all districts that identify the business or
owner, or manager or resident and set forth the address of the premises where
the sign is located and which contain no other material.
   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN.  A sign or bulletin board which identifies the name and
other characteristics of a public, semi-public or private institution on the
site where the sign is located. Institutions shall include churches, nursing
homes, schools and other non-profit and charitable organizations.
   INTEGRAL SIGNS.  Names of buildings, date of construction, commemorative
tablets and the like, which are of a permanent type of construction and which
are an integral part of the building of the structure.
   JUNK YARD.  An open area where waste, discarded or salvaged materials,
refuse or junk are located, stored, bought, sold, exchanged, cleaned, baled,
packed, disassembled or handled; including but not limited to scrap metal,
rags, paper or rubber products resulting from the wrecking of automobiles or
other vehicles. A JUNK YARD includes an auto-wrecking yard, but does not
include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings or outside
woodpiles.
   LODGING HOUSE.  A building other than a hotel, where for compensation for
definite periods, lodging is provided for 3 or more persons not of the
principal family, but not including a building providing this service for more
than 10 persons.
   LAND USE PLAN.  A compilation of maps, texts and policy statements and goals
for guiding the long-range development of land within the City of Slayton.
   LOT.  A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and area and to provide yards and other open
spaces as are herein required.
   LOT, AREA.  The area of a horizontal plane within the lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER.  A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on 2 or more
intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which is 135 degrees or less.
   LOT, DEPTH.  The shortest horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line measured from a 90-degree angle from the street right-of-way
within the lot boundaries.
   LOT, FRONTAGE.  The front of a lot shall be, for purposes of complying with
this chapter, that boundary abutting a public right-of-way having the least
width.
   LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot, other than a corner lot, including through lots.
   LOT, LINE.  A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership; except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the street or alley right-
of-way.
   LOT (OF RECORD).  A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described, as of the effective date of this chapter, or approved by the city as
a lot subsequent to the date and which having its principal frontage on a
street and is recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds.
   LOT, THROUGH.  A lot fronting on 2 parallel streets.
   LOT, WIDTH.  The shortest horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured at right angles to the lot depth.
   MEDICAL AND DENTAL CLINIC.  A structure intended for providing medical and
dental examinations and service available to the public. This service is
provided without overnight care available.
   MOBILE HOME.  Manufactured housing designed or used for human habilitation
and designed for transportation after fabrication, on streets and highways on
its own wheels or on flatbeds or other trailers, and arriving at the site where
it is to be occupied as a dwelling, complete and ready for occupancy, except
for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks
or permanent foundations. Connection to utilities, and the like. A MOBILE HOME
shall be congruous to a 1-family dwelling.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  A site, lot field or track of land upon which 2 or more
occupied mobile homes are parked and connected to utilities, either free of
charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any building structures,
tent, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the equipment of
a mobile home park. MOBILE HOME PARKS shall be licensed and regulated by the
Minnesota Department of Health.
   MODULAR HOME.  A non-mobile housing unit that is basically fabricated at a
central factory and transported to a building site where final installations
are made, permanently affixing the module to the site. A MODULAR HOME shall be
congruous to a 1-family dwelling.
   MOTEL/MOTOR HOTEL.  A building or group of detached, semi-detached buildings
containing guest rooms or units, each of which has a separate entrance directly
from the outside of the building, or corridor, with garage or parking space
conveniently located to each unit, and which is designed, used or intended to
be used primarily for the accommodation of transient guests traveling by
automobile.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL.  A building in which freight brought by motor truck
is assembled and sorted for routine in intrastate and interstate shipment.
   NAME PLATE.  A sign indicating the name and address of a building or the
name of an occupant thereof and the practice of a permitted occupation therein.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE OF USE.  Any structure or use which on the
effective date of this chapter does not, even though lawfully established,
conform to the applicable conditions if the structure of use was to be erected
under the guidance of this chapter.
   NURSING HOME (REST HOME).  A building having accommodations where care is
provided for 2 or more invalids, infirmed, aged, physically disabled persons or
convalescents that are not of the immediate family; but not including
hospitals, clinics, sanitariums or similar institutions.
   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE.  A space accessible from the street, alley or way,
in a building or on the lot, for the use of trucks while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials. This SPACE shall be of a size so as to accommodate 1
truck of the type typically used in the particular business.
   OPEN SALES LOT.  Any open land used or occupied for the purpose of buying
selling and/or renting merchandise and for the storing of same prior to sale.
   OUT-PATIENT CARE.  Medical examination or service available to the public in
a hospital. This service is provided without overnight care and shall be
considered a separate, independent, principal use when combined or operated in
conjunction with a hospital.
   PARKING SPACE.  An area, enclosed in the main building, in an accessory
building, or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store 1 automobile, which has
adequate access to a public street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress
and egress of an automobile.
   PERMITTED USE.  A use, which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms to all requirements, regulations
and performance standards (if any) of the districts.
   PERSON.  An individual, firm, partnership, association corporation or
organization of any kind.
   PRINCIPAL USE.  The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either permitted or
conditional.
   PROJECTING SIGN.  A sign, other than a wall sign, which is affixed to a
building and which extends perpendicular from the building wall.
   PUBLIC SIGN.  Signs of a public, non-commercial nature, to include safety
signs, danger signs, trespassing signs, traffic signs, signs indicating scenic
or historic points of interest, memorial plaques and the like, when signs are
erected by or on order of a public officer or employee in the performance of
official duty.
   PUBLIC USES.  Uses owned or operated by municipal, school districts, county,
state or other governmental units.
   RECREATION, FIELD or BUILDING.  An area of land, water or any building in
which amusement, recreation or athletic sports are provided for public or semi-
public use, whether temporary or permanent, except a theater, whether provision
is made for the accommodation of an assembly or not. A golf course, arena,
baseball park, stadium, circus ground or gymnasium is a recreational field or
building for the purpose of this chapter.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY.
      (1)   Any facility licensed by the Commissioner of Public Welfare, public
or private, which for gain or otherwise, regularly provides 1 or more
individuals with a 24 hour per day substitute for care, food, lodging,
training, education, supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation and treatment
they need, but which for any reason cannot be furnished in the individual’s own
home.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to state
institutions under the control of the Commissioner, maternity shelters, group
homes, residential programs or schools for handicapped children.
   RESTAURANT.  An establishment that serves food in or on non-disposable
dishes to be consumed primarily while seated at tables or booths within the
building.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT.  A business involving the direct sale of merchandise
in small quantities to consumers.
   ROOF LINE.  Is defined as the top of the coping; or, when the building has a
pitched roof, as the intersection of the outside wall with the roof.
   SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.  A business involving the performance of functions
supportive of production or distribution.
   SERVICE STATION.  A place where gasoline, stored only in underground tanks,
kerosene, motor oil, lubricants or grease, for operation of automobiles, are
retailed directly to the public on premises, and including minor accessories
and services for automobiles, but not including major automobile repairs and
rebuilding.
   SETBACK.  The minimum horizontal distance between a structure and right-of-
way or lot line. Distances are to be measured from the most outwardly extended
portion of the structure at ground level.
   SIGN.  A name, identification, descriptions display, illustration or device
which is affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure or land in view of the general public and which directs attention to
a product, place, activity, person, institution or business.
   SHOPPING CENTER.  An integrated group of commercial stores, under single
ownership or control.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM.  Any solar collector or other solar device or any
structural design of a building whose primary purpose is to collect, convert
and store solar energy for useful purposes including heating and cooling of
buildings domestic water heating, electric power generation, and other energy-
using processes.
   STORY.
      (1)   That portion of a building included beneath the upper surf ace of a
floor and upper surface of floor next above, except that the topmost story
shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the
topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above.
      (2)   If the finished floor level directly above a basement or cellar, or
unused under floor space is more than 6 feet above grade as defined herein for
more than 50% of the total perimeter or is more than 12 feet above grade as
defined herein at any point, the basement, cellar or unused under floor space
shall be considered as a STORY.
   STREET.  The entire width between property lines of a wav or place
dedicated, acquired or intended for the purpose of public use for vehicular
traffic or access other than an alley.
   STREET FRONTAGE.  The proximity of a parcel of land to 1 or more streets. An
interior lot has 1 STREET FRONTAGE and a corner lot has 2 frontages.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything which is built, constructed or erected, an edifice or
building of any kind; or any piece of work artificially built up and/or
composed of parts joined together in some definite manner whether temporary or
permanent in character.
   TOWNHOUSES.  Structures housing 3 or more dwelling units of not more than 2
stories each and contiguous to each other only by sharing of 1 common wall, the
structures to be of the town or row houses type as contrasted to multiple
dwelling apartment structures. No single structure shall contain in excess of 8
dwelling units and each dwelling unit shall have separate and individual front
and rear entrances.
   USE.  The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained, and shall include the performance of the activity as defined by the
performance standards of this chapter.
   USEABLE OPEN SPACE.  A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which
is graded, developed, landscaped and equipped and intended and maintained for
either active or passive recreation or both, available and accessible to and
useable by all persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot and
their guests. These areas shall be grassed and landscaped or covered only for a
recreational purpose. Roofs, driveways and parking areas shall not constitute
USEABLE OPEN SPACE.
   USED AUTO PARTS.  The processing, storage and sale of second hand or used
automobile or other vehicle parts provided the use is established entirely
within enclosed buildings.
   VARIANCE.
      (1)   The modification of the zoning regulations in instances where it is
determined by the Board of Adjustment that by reason of exceptional
circumstances, the strict enforcement of the zoning regulations would cause
undue hardship because of physical circumstances unique to the individual
property under consideration.
      (2)   Variances are limited to area, coverage, width and yard
requirements and height regulations and shall not be used to change the use of
a particular parcel of land.
   WALL SIGN.
      (1)   A sign that is affixed to the exterior wall of a building.
      (2)   A WALL SIGN does not project more than 18 inches from the surface
to which it is attached, nor extend beyond top of parapet wall.
   WAREHOUSE.  A building or structure for the storage of merchandise or
commodities.
   WATER BODY.  A body of water (lake, pond) in a depression of land or
expanded part of a river, or an enclosed basin that holds water and is
surrounded by land.
   WATERCOURSE.  A channel or depression through which water flows, such as
rivers, streams or creeks, and may flow year-round or intermittently.
   WATERSHED.  The area drained by the natural and artifice drainage system,
bounded peripherally by a ridge or stretch of high land dividing drainage
areas.
   WETLANDS.
      (1)   An area where water stands near, at or above the soil surface
during a significant portion of most years, saturating the soil and supporting
a predominantly aquatic form of vegetation, and which may have the following
characteristics:
         (a)   Vegetation belonging to the marsh (emergent aquatic), bog, fen,
sedge meadow, shrub land, southern lowland forest (lowland hardwood), and
northern lowland forest (conifer swamp) communities;
         (b)   Mineral soils with clay horizons or organic soils belonging to
the Histosol order (peat and muck); and/or
         (c)   Soil that is water logged or covered with water at least 3
months of the year.
      (2)   Swamps, bogs, marshes, potholes, wet meadows and sloughs are
WETLANDS, and properly, may be shallow water bodies, the waters of which are
stagnant or actuated by very feeble currents, and may at times be sufficiently
dry to permit tillage but would require drainage to be made arable. The edge of
a WETLAND is commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial.
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT.  A business involving the sale of merchandise on
the premises in quantity to retailers or other users mainly for resale.
   WIND ENERGY SYSTEM.  Any device such as a wind charger, windmill or wind
turbine, which converts wind energy to a form of useable energy.
   YARD.
      (1)   An open space on the lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from
its lowest level to the sky.
      (2)   A YARD extends along a lot line at right angles to the lot line to
a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the zoning district in
which the lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT.  A yard extending across the front of the lot between the side
lot lines and lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of
the principal use or building.
   YARD, REAR.  A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE.  A yard between the side line of the lot and the nearest line of
the building and extending from the front line of the lot to the rear yard.
(Prior Code, § 18.102)
§ 152.03     GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Non-conforming buildings, structures and uses.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this section to provide for the regulation of
non-conforming buildings, structures and uses and to specify those
requirements, circumstances and conditions under which non-conforming
buildings, structures and uses will be operated and maintained. This chapter
establishes separate districts, each of which is an appropriate area for the
location of uses that are permitted in that district. It is necessary and
consistent with the establishment of these districts that non-conforming
buildings, structures and uses not be permitted to continue without
restriction. Furthermore, it is the intent of this section that all non-
conforming uses shall be eventually brought into conformity.
      (2)   Any non-conforming structure or use lawfully existing upon the
effective date of this chapter shall not be enlarged, but may be continued at
the size and in the manner of operation existing upon that date except as
hereinafter specified or, subsequently amended.
      (3)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the placing of a
nonconforming structure in safe condition when the structure is declared unsafe
by the Zoning Official providing the necessary repairs shall not constitute
more than 50% of fair market value of the structure. The value shall be
determined by the County Assessor.
      (4)   No non-conforming building, structure or use shall be moved to
another lot or to any other part of the parcel of land upon which the same was
constructed or was conducted at the time of this chapter adoption unless the
movement shall bring the nonconformance into compliance with the requirements
of this chapter.
      (5)   When any lawful non-conforming use or any structure or land in any
district has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be
changed to any non-conforming use.
      (6)   A lawful non-conforming use of a structure or parcel of land may be
changed to lessen the non-conformity of use. Once a non-conforming structure of
parcel of land has been changed, it shall not thereafter be so altered to
increase the nonconformity.
      (7)   If at any time a nonconforming building, structure or use shall be
destroyed to the extent of more than 50% of its fair market value, the value to
be determined by the County Assessor, then without further action by the
Council, the building and the land on which the building was located or
maintained shall, from and after the date of the destruction, be subject to all
the regulations specified by these zoning regulations for the district in which
such land and building are located. Any building, which is damaged to an extent
of less than 50% of its value, may be restored to its former extent. The Zoning
Official shall make estimates of the extent of damage or destruction.
      (8)   Whenever a lawful non-conforming use of a structure of land is
discontinued for a period of 6 months, following written notice from an
authorized agent of the city, any future use of the structure or land shall be
made to conform to the provisions of this chapter.
      (9)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing or
related to lawful repairs and incidental alterations which do not physically
extend or intensify the non-conforming use.
      (10)   Alterations may be made to a building containing lawful
nonconforming residential units when they will improve the livability thereof,
provided they will not increase the number of dwelling units or size or volume
of the building.
      (11)   Any proposed structure which will, under this chapter, become non-
conforming but for which a zoning permit has been lawfully granted prior to the
effective date of this chapter, may be completed in accordance with the
approved plans; provided construction is started within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter, is not abandoned for a period of more than 120
days, and continues to completion within 2 years. The structure and use shall
thereafter be a legally nonconforming structure and use.
   (B)   Dwelling unit restriction.
      (1)   Except in cases of emergency, as established by the City Council,
no garage or accessory building shall at any time be used as a dwelling unit,
temporarily or permanently.
      (2)   Basements and cellars may be used as living quarters or rooms as a
portion of residential dwellings, provided they meet the applicable safety
provision.
   (C)   Platted and unplatted property.
      (1)   Any person desiring to improve property shall submit to the Zoning
Official a sketch of the premises and information on the location and
dimensions of existing and proposed buildings, location of easements crossing
the property, encroachments, and any other information which may be necessary
to ensure conformance to city ordinances.
      (2)   All buildings shall be so placed so that they will not obstruct
future streets that may be constructed by the city in conformity with existing
streets and according to the system and standards employed by the city.
      (3)   A lot of record existing upon the effective date of this chapter in
a B-1 or I-1 District, which does not meet the requirements of this chapter as
to area or width may be utilized as allowed, provided the measurements of the
area and width are within 75% of the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   A lot of record existing upon the effective date of this chapter in
a residential district, which does not meet the requirements of this chapter as
to area or width may be utilized for single-family detached dwelling purpose
provided and measurements of the area or width are 60% of the requirements of
this chapter.
      (5)   On a through lot (a lot fronting on 2 parallel streets), or corner
lot, both street lines shall be front lot lines for applying the yard and
parking regulations of this chapter.
   (D)   Accessory buildings, uses and equipment.
      (1)   An accessory building shall be considered an integral part of the
principal building if it is connected to the principal building by a covered
passageway.
      (2)   No accessory buildings shall be erected or located within any
required yard other than the rear yard and side yard. In residential districts
(R-1, R-2, and R-3), an accessory building may not be built in front of the
rear extension of the primary dwelling plus 10 feet, except as allowed in
division (4) below.
      (3)   Accessory buildings and garages shall not exceed 20 feet in height
and shall be 5 feet or more from all lot lines of adjoining lots, except as
noted in divisions (4) through (7) below; and shall be 6 feet or more from any
other building or structure on the same lot and shall not be located within a
utility easement.
      (4)   A detached garage may be built in the side yard of the primary
dwelling provided:
         (a)   That it is of a minimum size of 12 feet by 20 feet with a
maximum garage door height of 9 feet;
         (b)   That it may not have a side wall height that is greater than 11
feet.
         (c)    No pole frame construction is allowed.
      (5)   All accessory buildings 240 square feet and over must have exterior
finish materials and colors which conform to the exterior finishes of the
primary dwelling. 
      (6)   Setback requirements.
         (a)   Side yard.  Garages built in the side yard shall be set back 10%
of the lot width with a maximum setback of 10 feet and shall be no closer to
the lot line than to the primary dwelling.
         (b)   Rear yard.  Accessory buildings built in the rear yard shall be
set back 5 feet from the side lot line and 5 feet from the rear lot line.
      (7)   All accessory buildings shall be of wood frame construction except
as noted in division (a) below.  A structure whose primary purpose was for some
other use may not be placed on a lot for use as a storage unit, garage, house,
or other purpose.  Examples would include, but are not limited to: shipping
containers, grain bins, and the like.
         (a)   Temporary storage/shelter buildings such as hoop-type sheds made
from canvas, metal or other materials, will require a 30 day temporary permit. 
Said structures must be located within the rear yard within 30 feet of the rear
property line.
         (b)   No pole frame construction is allowed.
      (8)   No accessory building or garage accessory to single family
residence shall occupy more than 25% of a rear yard.  Total square footage of
all accessory buildings on a property must not exceed 1,500 square feet.
      (9)   Accessory building less than 80 square feet and decks less than 50
square feet do not require a zoning permit.
   (E)   Drainage plans.
      (1)   In the case of all multi-family, business and industrial
developments, the drainage plans shall be submitted to the Zoning Official for
his or her review and the final drainage plan shall be subject to approval of
the Planning Commission.
      (2)   In addition, the following criteria shall be followed for all
proposed building sites:
         (a)   Provide proper drainage and control of water runoff both on the
property of the proposed building and on adjoining property;
         (b)   Provide proper measures to control erosion during and after
construction. Erosion control measures may include, but are not limited to
landscaping and seeding of topsoil;
         (c)   Evaluate the stability of slopes on and adjacent to construction
sites. Construction will be allowed if evaluation indicates that slope
stability is not a problem or that problems can be controlled by proper design
and construction; and
         (d)   Evaluate soil type and condition on and adjacent to construction
sites. Construction will be allowed if soil type and condition is suitable for
the proposed action.
   (F)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   The performance standards established in this section are
designed to encourage high quality development by providing assurance that
neighboring land uses will be compatible.
         (b)   The performance standards are also designed to prevent and
eliminate those conditions that cause blight. All future development in the
city shall be required to meet these standards.
         (c)   The standards shall also apply to existing development where so
stated. The Zoning Official shall be responsible for enforcing these standards
and may require the submission of information showing compliance or non-
compliance with the standards.
      (2)   General provisions.
         (a)   Before any zoning permit is approved, the Zoning Official shall
determine whether the proposed use is likely to conform to the performance
standards.
         (b)   The developer shall supply additional data about the proposed
use (such as equipment to be used, hours of operation, method of refuse
disposal, type and location of exterior storage and the like), where required
to do so by the Zoning Official.
         (c)   It may occasionally be necessary for a developer or business to
employ specialized consultants to demonstrate that a given use will conform
with the performance standards.
      (3)   General fencing, screening and landscaping.
         (a)   No fence shall exceed 8 feet in height and in the case of grade
separation such as the division of properties by a retaining wall the height
shall be determined on the basis of measurement from the average point between
the highest and lowest grade.
         (b)   No fence, other than a chain link fence, or structures or trees
or shrubs of more than 36 inches in height shall be permitted within 20 feet of
any street corner formed by the intersection of street property or right-of-way
lines. The 20 feet referred to above shall be in the form of a triangle with 2
sides formed by the property lines and the third side connecting the 2 sides.
No chain link fence of more than 48 inches shall be permitted within this 20
foot triangle.
         (c)   In all zoning districts the lot area remaining after providing
for off-street parking, off-street loading, sidewalks, driveways, building site
and/or other requirements shall be planted and maintained in grass, sod, shrubs
or other acceptable vegetation or treatment generally used in landscaping.
Fences or trees placed upon utility easements are subject to removal if
required for the maintenance or improvement of the utility. Trees on utility
easements containing overhead wires shall not exceed 10 feet in height.
      (4)   Required fencing, screening and landscaping. The fencing and
screening required by this chapter shall be subject to this division (F)
performance standards and shall consist of either a fence or a green belt
planting strip.
         (a)   A green belt planting strip shall consist of evergreen ground
cover and shall be of sufficient width and density to provide an effective
screen. This planting strip shall contain no structures or other use. The
planting strips shall not be less than 8 feet in height. Mounding or berms may
be used but shall not be used to achieve more than 3 feet or the required
screen. The planting plan and type of shrub shall require the approval of the
City Zoning Official.
         (b)   A required screening fence shall be constructed of masonry,
brick, wood or steel. The fence shall provide a solid screening effect and not
exceed 8 feet in height or be less than 6 feet in height. The design and
materials used in constructing a required screening fence shall be subject to
the approval of the Planning Commission based upon a recommendation by the City
Zoning Official.
         (c)   Where any business or industrial use (i.e., structure, parking
or storage) abuts property zoned for residential use, that business or industry
shall provide screening along the boundary of the residential property.
Screening shall also be provided where a business or industry is across the
street from a residential zone, but not on that side of a business or industry
considered to be the front (as determined by the Zoning Official).
      (5)   Glare. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area,
sign or other structure, shall be arranged as to deflect light away from any
adjoining residential zone or from the public streets. Direct or sky-reflected
glare, where from floodlights or from high temperature processes such as
combustion or welding shall not be directed into any adjoining property. The
source of lights shall be hooded or controlled in some manner so as not to
light adjacent property.
      (6)   Smoke, dust, fumes, odors or gases. The emission of smoke, dust,
fumes, odors or gases shall meet the minimum requirements of the State of
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
      (7)   Noise. No undue noise shall result from the operation of a use,
excluding traffic, loading, parking, constructions farming or maintenance
operations.
      (8)   Refuse. Motor vehicles not currently licensed by the state, or
which are because of mechanical deficiency incapable of movement under their
own power, parked or stored outside for a period in excess of 30 days, and all
materials stored outside in violation of this chapter are considered refuse or
junk and shall be disposed of. No junk yard, as defined in §
152.02 above, may continue as a nonconforming use for more than 3 months after
the effective date of this chapter, except that a junk yard may continue as a
non-conforming use if within that period it is completely enclosed within a
building, fence, screen planting or device of a height so as to screen
completely the junk yard. Plans of a like building or device shall be approved
by the City Planning Commission and City Council before it is erected or put
into place. The piling of junk in yards in all residential districts shall be
considered to be a non-conforming use.
      (9)   Exterior storage. All materials and equipment except as provided
for in §§
152.15 through
152.25 below shall be stored within a building or fully screened so as not to
be visible from adjoining properties, except for the following:
         (a)   Clothes line pole and wires;
         (b)   Recreational equipment;
         (c)   Construction and landscaping material currently being used on
the premises; and
         (d)   Off-street parking of passenger vehicles and trucks as per §
71.51.
      (10)   Vibration. Periodic, earth-shaking vibrations created by or
resulting from any use shall be substantially controlled, so as not to be
perceptible beyond the property boundaries upon which the use is located,
excluding vibrations created during the process of construction.
      (11)   Toxic or noxious matter. No use shall discharge into the air,
water or soil, any toxic or noxious matter. All sewage and industrial wastes
shall be treated and disposed of in a manner so as to comply with Minnesota
State Department of Health standards and requirements.
      (12)   Hazardous materials. Any use established, enlarged or remodeled
after the effective date of this chapter, requiring the storage, utilization or
manufacturing of hazardous products shall be located no less than 500 feet from
any residence or public meeting place.
   (G)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   This division identifies minimum yard spaces and areas to be
provided for in each zoning district.
      (2)   No lot, yard or other open space shall be reduced in area or
dimension so as to make the lot, yard or open space less than the minimum
required by this chapter, and if the existing yard or other open space as
existing is less than the minimum required it shall not be further reduced. No
required open space provided about any building or structure shall be included
as a part of any open space required for another structure.
      (3)   All setback distances, as listed in the table below, shall be
measures from the appropriate lot line or public right-of-way to the principal
use or structure.
District Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
District Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
A-O      50         30        50
R-1      30 ii      10% i     30
R-2      30 ii      10% i     30
R-3      30 ii      10% i     30
R-M      30         30        30
B-1      40 ii      10 iii    10 iii
B-2      0 i        0 i iii   0 i iii
I-1      40         25 iii    40 i
 
 
    In the R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts, each required side yard shall be no less
    than 10% of the lot width, with and absolute minimum of 5 feet for 1-
    family, 2-family or multi-family residences and a maximum required side
i   yard of 10 feet for 1-family or 2-family residents only: in B-2 District
    the minimum required yards for a residence shall be as follows: 15 feet for
    front yard, 5 feet for side yard and 20 feet for rear yard; and in the I-
    1 District, no buildings shall be located within 75 feet of an abutting
    residential district.
    Where 25% or more of the lots in a block are built upon, and where adjacent
    structures within same block have front yard setbacks different than those
ii  required, the front yard minimum setback shall average of the structures.
    If there is only 1 adjacent structure, the front yard minimum setback shall
    be the average of the required setback and the setback of the adjacent
    structure.
iii Not less than 30 feet from lot line, if abutting a residential district.
 
      (4)   The following shall not be considered as encroachments on yard
setback requirements:
         (a)   Chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters,
lintels, ornamental features, cornices, eaves, gutters and the like provided
they do not project more than 2 feet into a yard;
         (b)   Terraces, steps, uncovered porches, stoops or similar features
provided they do not extend above the height of the ground floor level of the
principal structure or to a distance less than 2 feet from any lot line;
         (c)   In rear yards: recreational and laundry drying equipment, arbors
and trellises balconies breezeways, open porches, detached outdoor living
rooms, garages and air conditioning or heating equipment; and
         (d)   In side yards: air conditioning or heating equipment.
      (5)   The side yard of a corner lot along the side street lot line shall
have a setback of not less than the required setback of the front yard of the
other lot fronting the side street.
   (H)   Area and building size regulations.
      (1)   This division identifies minimum area and building size
requirements to provide for in each zoning district as listed in the table
below.
District Lot Area Lot Width Building Height
District Lot Area                          Lot Width Building Height
A-O      1 acre                            200       2-1/2
R-1      12,000 i                          100 i     2-1/2
R-2      9,600 i                           80 i      3
R-3      7,500                             65 i      2-1/2
R-M      48,000                            200       1
B-1      10,000ii                          90 ii     3
B-2      2,000 iii                         20 iii    3
I-1      None; maximum lot coverage of 75% 150 ii    4
 
i Lot area; R-1 District; 2-family     12,500 square feet
residence
Lot; R-2 and R-3 Districts; 2-family   10,000 square feet for a 2-family
and multi-family residences            dwelling plus 1,500 square feet for each
                                       additional dwelling unit
Lot width; R-1 Districts; 2-family     125 feet
residence
Lot width; R-2 and R-3 Districts; 2-   100 feet
family and multi-family residences
ii A lot of record existing upon the effective date of this chapter in a B-
1 District, which does not meet the requirements of this chapter as to area or
width may be utilized as allowed, provided the measurements of the area and
width are within 75% of the requirements listed in the above table
A lot of record existing upon the effective date of this chapter in an I-
1 District, which does not meet the requirements of this chapter as to width
may be utilized as allowed, provided the measurements of the width are within
75% of the requirements listed in the above table
iii Lot area requirement for residence 7,000 square feet
in B-2 District
Lot width requirement for residence in 50 feet
B-2 District
 
      (2)   Where sanitary sewer is not available, the minimum lot size shall
be not less than 1/2 acre, with a minimum lot width of not less than 150 feet.
      (3)   No dwelling unit other than single-family shall be allowed without
public sanitary sewer and water.
      (4)   The building height limits established herein for districts shall
not apply to the following:
         (a)   Belfries;
         (b)   Chimneys or flues;
         (c)   Church spires;
         (d)   Cooling towers;
         (e)   Cupolas and domes which do not contain useable space;
         (f)   Flag poles;
         (g)   Parapet walls extending not more than 3 feet above the limiting
height of the building;
         (h)   Monuments;
         (i)   Water towers;
         (j )   Poles, towers and other structures for essential services;
         (k)   Necessary mechanical and electrical appurtenances;
         (l)   Television and radio antennas and solar energy systems not
exceeding 20 feet above roof;
         (m)   Farm structures; or
         (n)   Wind energy systems.
      (5)   No excluded roof equipment or structural element extending beyond
the limited height of a building may occupy more than 25% of the area of the
roof nor exceed 10 feet unless otherwise noted.
      (6)   Minimum floor area per dwelling unit:
         (a)    One- and 2-family dwellings and townhouses. The minimum floor
area for this type buildings shall not be less than 1,000 square feet in the R-
1 Residential District; and
         (b)   One-family, 2-family and multiple-family dwellings and
townhouses. The minimum floor area for these buildings shall not be less than
900 square feet in the R-2 Residential District.
      (7)   Minimum width per dwelling:
         (a)   The minimum width for dwellings in the R-1 and R-2 Residential
Districts and B-1 and B-2 Business Districts shall not be less than 20 feet;
         (b)   The minimum width for dwellings in the R-3 Residential District
shall not be less than 14 feet; and
         (c)   For purposes of this subdivision, WIDTH is hereby defined as the
narrowest dimension of a dwelling.
   (I)   Off-street parking requirements.
      (1)   Purpose. The regulation of off-street parking spaces in these
zoning regulations is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public right-
of-way and to promote the safety and general welfare of the public, by
establishing minimum requirements for off-street parking of motor vehicles in
accordance with the utilization of various parcels of land or structures.
      (2)   Application of off-street parking regulations.
         (a)   The regulations and requirements set forth herein shall apply to
all off-street parking facilities in all of the zoning districts of the city.
         (b)   The parking area shall be provided with vehicular access to a
street, alley or roadway and shall be required with the use and shall not be
reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
      (3)   Site plan drawing necessary. All applications for a zoning permit
in all zoning districts shall be accompanied by a site plan drawn to scale and
dimensioned indicating the location of off-street parking and loading spaces in
compliance with the requirements set forth in this section.
      (4)   General provisions.
         (a)   Floor area. The term FLOOR AREA for the purpose of calculating
the number of off-street parking spaces required shall be determined on the
basis of the exterior floor area dimensions of the buildings, structure or use
times the number of floors, minus 10%.
         (b)   Reduction of existing off-street parking space or lot area.
Parking spaces existing upon the effective date of this chapter shall not be
reduced in number or size unless the number or size exceeds the requirements
set forth herein for a similar new use.
         (c)   Non-conforming structures. Should a non-conforming structure or
use be damaged or destroyed by fire, it may be re-established if elsewhere
permitted in these zoning regulations, except that in doing so, any off-street
parking or loading space which existed before shall be retained.
         (d)   Change of use or occupancy of land. No change of use or
occupancy of land already dedicated to a parking area, parking spaces or
loading spaces shall be made, nor shall any sale of land, division or
subdivision of land be made which reduces area necessary for parking, parking
stalls or parking requirements below the minimum prescribed by these zoning
regulations.
         (e)   Change of use or occupancy of buildings. Any change of use or
occupancy of any building or buildings including additions thereto requiring
more parking areas shall not be permitted until there is furnished additional
parking spaces as required by these zoning regulations.
         (f)   Trucks and recreational vehicles. Off-street parking facilities
accessory to residential use shall be utilized solely for the parking of
licensed and operable passenger automobiles or trucks pursuant to §
71.51; or recreational vehicles and equipment.
         (g)   Calculating space.
            1.   When determining the number of off-street parking spaces
results in a fraction, each fraction of 1/2 or more shall constitute another
space.
            2.   Should a structure contain 2 or more types of use, each use
shall be calculated separately for determining the total off-street parking
spaces required.
         (h)   Stall, aisle and driveway design.
            1.   Each parking space shall be not less than 9 feet wide and 20
feet in length exclusive of access aisles, and each space shall be served
adequately by access aisles.
            2.   The off-street parking requirements may be furnished by
providing a space so designed within the principal building or 1 structure
attached thereto; however, unless provisions are made, no zoning permit shall
be issued to convert the parking structure into a dwelling unit or living area
or other activity until other adequate provisions are made to comply with the
required off-street parking provisions of this chapter.
            3.   Except in the case of single, 2-family and townhouse
dwellings, parking areas shall be designed so that circulation between parking
bays or aisles occurs within the designated parking lot and does not depend
upon a public street or alley. Except in the case of single, 2-family and
townhouse dwellings, parking area design, which requires backing into the
public street, is prohibited.
            4.   In the case of lots less than 80 feet in width, the required
parking spaces serving 1 and 2-family dwellings may be designed for parking not
more than 2 vehicles in a tandem arrangement for each dwelling unit in order to
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
            5.   No curb cut access shall be located less than 40 feet from the
intersection of 2 or more street rights-of-way. This distance shall be measured
from the intersection of curb lines.
            6.   No curb cut access shall exceed 36 feet in width.
            7.   Curb cut openings shall be at minimum 3 feet from the side
yard property line.
            8.   Driveway access curb openings on a public street except for
single, 2-family and townhouse dwellings shall not be located less than 40 feet
from one another.
            9.   The grade elevation of any parking area shall not exceed 5%.
            10.   Each property shall be allowed 1 curb cut access for each 100
feet of street frontage. All property shall be entitled to at least 1 curb cut.
Single-family uses shall be limited to 1 curb cut access per street frontage.
            11.   All areas intended to be utilized for parking space and
driveways shall be surfaced with materials suitable to control dust and
drainage. Plans for surfacing and drainage and stalls for 5 or more vehicles
shall be submitted to the City Zoning Official for his or her review and the
final drainage plan shall be subject to his or her written approval. These
requirements shall also apply to open sales lots for cars, trucks and other
vehicles. This section shall not apply to 1 and 2-family dwellings.
            12.   Except for single and 2-family dwellings and townhouses, all
parking stalls may be required to be marked with white painted lines.
            13.   Any lighting used to illuminate an off street parking area
shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining property,
abutting residential uses and public rights-of-way and be in compliance with
division (F)(5) above.
            14.   No sign shall be so located as to restrict the sight lines
and orderly operation and traffic movement within any parking lot.
            15.   Except for single and 2-family dwellings and townhouses, all
open off-street parking may be required to have a perimeter curb barrier around
the entire parking lot, the curb barrier shall not be closer than 5 feet to any
lot line, or if abutting residentially zoned property, not less than 10 feet
from a-lot line. Grass, plantings or surfacing material shall be provided in
all areas bordering the parking area.
            16.   All open, non-residential, off-street parking areas of 5 or
more spaces shall be screened and landscaped from abutting or surrounding
residential districts in compliance with division (F)(4) above.
      (5)   Maintenance. It shall be the joint and several responsibility of
the lessee and owner of the principal use, uses or building to maintain in a
neat and adequate manner, the parking space, access ways, striping, landscaping
and required fences.
      (6)   Location. All accessory off-street parking facilities required by
this chapter shall be located and restricted as follows:
         (a)   Required accessory off-street parking shall be on the same
ownership as the principal use being served, except under the provisions of
division (I)(9) below;
         (b)   Except for single, 2-family and townhouse dwellings, head-in
parking, directly off of and adjacent to a public street, with each stall
having its own direct access to the public street, shall be prohibited;
         (c)   There shall be no off-street parking within 15 feet of any
street surface;
         (d)   The boulevard portion of the street right-of-way shall not be
used for parking;
         (e)   Required accessory off-street parking shall not be provided in
front yards or in side yards abutting streets in the case of a corner lot, in
R-1 and R-2 Districts; and
         (f)   In the case of single-family, 2-family and townhouse dwellings
parking shall be prohibited in any portion of the front yard except designated
driveways.
      (7)   Use of required area. Required accessory off-street parking spaces
in any district shall not be utilized for open storage, sale or rental of
goods, storage of inoperable vehicles as regulated by division (F)(8) above,
and/or storage of snow.
      (8)   Number of spaces required. The following minimum number of off-
street parking spaces shall be provided and maintained by ownership, easement
and/or lease for and during the lift of the respective uses hereinafter set
forth:
         (a)   Single-family, 2-family and townhouse dwellings: 2 spaces per
unit;
         (b)   Boarding house: at least 1 parking space for each 3 persons for
whom accommodations are provided for sleeping;
         (c)   Multiple-family dwellings: 1 space per dwelling, unit for
dwellings designed and occupied exclusively by elderly persons; at least 1-1/
2 spaces per unit for non-elderly dwelling;
         (d)   Public park, playground and play field: at least 5 parking
spaces for each acre of park over 1 acre; 2 parking spaces per acre for
playgrounds, and 10 spaces for each acre of play field. When a public
recreation site has more than 1 use designation, the areas must be divided for
determining, the required parking spaces;
         (e)   Motel, motor hotel, hotel: 3 spaces plus 1 space per each rental
unit;
         (f)   School, elementary and junior high: at least 2 parking spaces
for each classroom;
         (g)   School, high school through college: at least 2 spaces for each
classroom plus 1 for each 10 seats, based on design capacity of auditorium or
gymnasium, whichever is larger;
         (h)   Church, theater, auditorium: at least 1 parking space for each 4
seats based on the design capacity of the main assembly hall. Facilities as may
be provided in conjunction with the buildings or uses shall be subject to
additional requirements which are imposed by this chapter;
         (i)   Community center, library, private club, lodge, museum, art
gallery: 10 spaces plus 1 for each 150 square feet in excess of 2,000 square
feet of floor area in the principal structure;
         (j)   Sanitarium, convalescent home, rest home, nursing home: 4 spaces
plus 1 space for each 4 beds for which accommodations are offered;
         (k)   Drive-in establishment and convenience food: at least 1 parking
space for each 50 square feet of gross floor area, but not less than 10 spaces;
         (l)   Office buildings, animal hospitals and professional offices: 3
spaces plus at least 1 space for each 200 square feet of floor area;
         (m)   Bowling alley: at least 5 parking spaces for each alley, plus
additional spaces as may be required herein for related uses contained within
the principal structure;
         (n)   Service station: at least 4 off-street parking spaces plus 2
off-street parking spaces for each service stall. Those facilities designed for
sale of other items than strictly automotive products, parts or service shall
be required to provide additional parking in compliance with other applicable
sections of this chapter;
         (o)   Retail store and service establishment: at least 3 off-street
parking spaces plus 1 space for each 200 square feet of floor area;
         (p)   Retail sales and service business with 50% or more of gross
floor area devoted to storage, warehouse and/or industry: at least 8 spaces or
1 space for each 200 square feet devoted to public sales or service or 1 space
for each employee on the maximum shift whichever is greatest;
         (q)   Restaurants, cafes, private clubs serving food and/or drinks,
bars, taverns, nightclubs: at least 1 space for each 80 square feet of gross
floor area of dining and bar area and 1 space for each employee on the maximum
shift;
         (r)   Undertaking establishments: at least 10 parking spaces for each
chapel or parlor, plus 1 parking space for each funeral vehicle maintained on
the premises. Aisle space shall also be provided off the street for making up a
funeral procession;
         (s)   Motor vehicle sales and/or repair, major bus terminal, boat and
marine sales and repair, bottling company, shop for a trade employing 6 or less
people, garden supply store, building material sales in structure: 8 off-street
parking spaces, plus 1 additional space for each 800 square feet of floor area
over 1,000 square feet;
         (t)   Skating rink, dance hall or public auction house: 20 off-street
parking spaces, plus 1 additional off-street parking space for each 200 square
feet of floor space over 2,000 square feet;
         (u)   Golf driving range, miniature golf, archery range: 10 off-street
parking spaces plus 1 for each 100 square feet of floor area;
         (v)   Car wash:
            1.   Automatic drive-through, serviced: a minimum of 3 spaces, or 1
space for each employee on the maximum shift, whichever is greater;
            2.   Self-service: a minimum of 2 spaces; and
            3.   Service station car wash: 0, in addition to that required for
the station.
         (w)   Hospitals: 1 space per bed;
         (x)   Manufacturing, fabricating or processing of a product or
material: 1 space for each 500 square feet of floor area, plus 1 space for each
company owned truck (if not stored inside principal building) or 1 space per
employee on maximum shift whichever is greatest;
         (y)   Warehousing, storage or handling of bulk goods: that space which
is solely used as office shall comply with the office use requirements and 1
space per each 1,000 square feet of floor area, plus 1 space for each employee
on maximum shift and 1 space for each company owned truck (if not stored inside
principal building);
         (z)   Home occupation: 2 spaces per employed person;
         (aa)   Day care or residential facility: 1 space per employed person;
         (bb)   Furniture stores: 1 space for each full-time employee plus 1
space for each 600 square feet of floor area;
         (cc)   All other commercial uses: a minimum of 3 spaces, with
additional spaces to be decided by the Planning Commission on an individual
basis; and
         (dd)   Other uses not specifically mentioned herein shall be
determined on an individual basis by the Planning Commission. Factors to be
considered in the determination shall include (without limitation):
            1.   Size of building;
            2.   Type of use;
            3.   Number of employees;
            4.   Expected volume and turnover of customer traffic; and
            5.   Expected frequency and number of delivery or service vehicles.
      (9)   Joint facilities.
         (a)   The City Council may, after receiving a report or a
recommendation from the Planning Commission, approve a conditional use permit
for 1 or more businesses to provide the required off-street parking facilities
by joint use of 1 or more sites where the total number of spaces provided are
less than the sum of the total required for each business should they provide
them separately.
         (b)   When considering a request for a permit, the Planning Commission
shall not recommend that the permit be granted nor the Council approve a permit
except when the following conditions are found to exist:
            1.   Up to 50% of the parking facilities required for a theater,
bowling alley, dance hall, bar or restaurant may be supplied by the off-street
parking facilities provided by types of uses specified as primarily daytime
uses in division (I)(9)(b)4. below;
            2.   Up to 50% of the off-street parking facilities required for
any use specified under division (I)(9)(b)4. below as primary daytime uses may
be supplied by the parking facilities provided by the following night-time or
Sunday uses; auditoriums incidental to a public or parochial school, churches,
bowling alleys, dance halls, theaters, bars, restaurants or apartments;
            3.   Up to 80% of the parking facilities required by this section
for a church or for an auditorium incidental to a public or parochial school
may be supplied by the off-street parking facilities provided by uses specified
under division (I)(9)(b)4. below as primary daytime uses;
            4.   For the purpose of this section the following uses are
considered as primarily daytime uses: banks, business offices, retail stores,
personal service shops, household equipment or furniture stores, clothing or
shoe repair or service shops, manufacturing, wholesale and similar uses; and
            5.   Conditions required for joint use:
               a.   The building or use for which application is being made to
utilize the off-street parking facilities provided by another building, or use
shall be located within 300 feet of the parking facilities;
               b.   The applicant shall show that there substantial conflict in
the principal operating hours of the 2 buildings or uses for which joint use of
off street parking facilities is proposed; and
               c.   A properly drawn legal instrument, executed by the parties
concerned for joint use of off-street parking facilities, duly approved as to
form and manner of execution by the City Attorney, shall be filed with the City
Clerk/Administrator and recorded with the Murray County Recorder.
      (10)   Off-site parking.
         (a)   Any off-site parking which is used to meet the requirements of
this chapter shall be a conditional use as regulated by §
152.41 below and shall be subject to the conditions listed below.
         (b)   Off-site parking shall be developed and maintained in compliance
with all requirements and standards of this chapter.
         (c)   Reasonable access from off-street parking facilities to the use
being serviced shall be provided.
         (d)   The site used for meeting the off-site parking requirements of
this chapter shall be under public ownership or shall be secured by a long-term
lease agreement between the parties, subject to the review and approval of the
City Attorney, filed with the City Clerk/Administrator and recorded with the
Murray County Recorder.
         (e)   Off-site parking for multiple-family dwellings shall not be
located more than 100 feet from any normally used entrance of the principal use
serviced.
         (f)   Off-site parking for non-residential uses shall not be located
more than 300 feet from the main entrance of the principal use being served. No
more than 1 main entrance shall be recognized for each principal building.
         (g)   Any use which depends upon off-site parking to meet the
requirements of this chapter shall maintain ownership and parking utilization
of the off-site location until a time as on-site parking is provided or a site
in closer proximity to the principal use is acquired and developed for parking.
   (J)   Off-site loading.
      (1)   Purpose. The regulation of loading spaces in these zoning
regulations is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public right-of-wav so
to promote the safety and general welfare of the public, by establishing
minimum requirements for off-street loading and unloading from motor vehicles
in accordance with the utilization of various parcels of land or structures.
      (2)   Location.
         (a)   All required loading berths shall be off-street and located on
the same lot as the building or use to be served.
         (b)   All loading berth curb cuts shall be located at minimum 50 feet
from the intersection of 2 or more street rights-of-way. This distance shall be
measured from the property line.
         (c)   No loading berth shall be located closer than 100 feet from a
residential district unless within a structure.
         (d)   Loading berths shall not occupy the front yard setbacks.
         (e)   A conditional use permit shall be required for new loading
berths added to an existing structure, where the loading berth is located at
the front or at the side of a building on a corner lot.
            1.   Loading berths shall not conflict with pedestrian movement.
            2.   Loading berths shall not obstruct the view of the public
right-of-way from off-street parking access.
            3.   Loading berths shall comply with all other requirements of
this section.
         (f)   Each loading berth shall be located with appropriate means of
vehicular access to a street or public alley in a manner that will cause the
least interference with traffic.
      (3)   Surfacing. All loading berths and access ways shall be improved
with surfacing to control the dust and drainage according to a plan submitted
to and subject to the approval of the City Zoning Official.
      (4)   Accessory use, parking and storage. Any space allocated as a
required loading berth or access drive so as to comply with the terms of these
zoning regulations shall not be used for the storage of goods, inoperable
vehicles or snow and shall not be included as part of the space requirements to
meet the off street parking requirements.
      (5)   Screening. Except in the case of multiple dwellings all loading
areas shall be screened and landscaped from abutting and surrounding
residential uses in compliance with division (F)(4) above.
      (6)   Size. Unless otherwise specified in these zoning regulations the
first loading berth shall be not less than 50 feet in length, 15 feet in width
and 14 feet in height, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space.
      (7)   Number of loading berths required. The number of required off
street loading berths shall be as follows:
         (a)   Commercial or industrial uses: 1 loading berth for each 5,000
square feet of floor area; and
         (b)   Auditorium, convention hall, exhibition hall, sports arena or
stadium: 1 loading berth for each 10,000 square feet of floor area.
   (K)   Land reclamation. For the purposes of this chapter, LAND RECLAMATION
is the reclaiming of land by depositing of materials so as to elevate the
grade. Land reclamation shall be permitted only by conditional use permit in
all districts. Any lot or parcel upon which 400 cubic yards or more of fill is
to be deposited shall come under the controls of land reclamation. The permit
shall include as a condition thereof a finished grade plan which will not
adversely affect the adjacent land, and as conditions thereof shall regulate
the type of fill permitted, program for rodent control, plan for fire control
and general maintenance of the site, controls of vehicular ingress and egress
and for control of material disbursed from wind or hauling of material to or
from the site.
   (L)   Mining. The extraction of sand, gravel or other material from the land
in the amount of 400 cubic yards or more and removal thereof from the site
without processing shall be defined as MINING. The conduct of mining shall be
permitted only upon issuance of a conditional use permit. The permit shall
include, as a condition thereof, a plan for a finished grade which will not
adversely affect the surrounding land or the development of the site on which
the mining is being conducted, and the route of trucks moving to and from the
site.
   (M)   Signs.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   This division is established to protect and promote health,
safety, general welfare and order within the City of Slayton through the
establishment of a comprehensive and impartial series of standards, regulations
and procedures governing the type, numbers, size, structure, location, height,
lighting, erection, use and/or display of devices, signs or symbols serving as
a visual communication media to persons situated within or upon public rights-
of-way or properties.
         (b)   The provisions of this subdivision are intended to encourage
opportunity for effective, orderly communication by reducing confusion and
hazards resulting from unnecessary and/or indiscriminate use of communication
facilities.
      (2)   Permitted and prohibited signs.
         (a)   Permitted signs. The following signs are allowed without a
permit, but shall comply with all other applicable provisions of this division:
            1.   Public sign;
            2.   Name plate: there may be 1 per premise not to exceed 2 square
feet;
            3.   Integral sign;
            4.   Political campaign sign: shall not exceed 4 square feet in all
R Zoning Districts, or 12 square feet in all other zoning districts. Every
campaign sign must contain the name and address of persons responsible for the
sign, and that persons shall be responsible for its removal. Signs erected
before the primary election shall remain in place for no longer than 5 days
after the general or special election for which they are intended. All signs
shall be confined to private property. The city shall have the right to remove
and destroy unsightly signs or remove signs after the 5-day limit;
            5.   Holiday sign: displayed for a period not to exceed 30 days;
            6.   Construction sign: these signs shall be confined to the site
of the construction, alteration or repair, and shall be removed within 2 years
of the date of issuance of the first building permit or when the particular
project is completed, whichever is sooner as determined by the City Zoning
Official or his or her agent. No sign may exceed 25 square feet;
            7.   Individual property sale or rental sign: signs must be removed
upon sale or rental or property. Signs may not measure more than 10 square feet
in R Districts, nor more than 40 square feet in all other districts; and
            8.   Informational/directional sign: shall not be larger than 25
square feet and shall conform to the location provisions of the specific
district.
         (b)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are specifically
prohibited by this division:
            1.   Any sign which obstructs or obscures the vision of drivers or
pedestrians, or detracts from the visibility of any official traffic control
device;
            2.   Any sign which contains or imitates an official traffic sign
or signal, except for private, on-premise directional signs;
            3.   Signs which are attached in any manner to trees, fences,
utility poles or other like permanent supports;
            4.   All displays shall be shielded to prevent any light to be
directed at on-coming traffic in a brilliance so as to impair the vision of any
driver; and
            5.   Roof signs, with the exception of airport identification
signs.
      (3)   General provisions.
         (a)   All signs shall comply with the zoning ordinance.
         (b)   When electrical signs are installed, the installation shall be
subject to the city’s Electrical Code.
         (c)   No signs other than governmental signs shall be erected or
temporarily placed within any street right-of-way or upon any public lands or
easements or rights-of-way.
         (d)   No sign or sign structure shall protrude over public right-of-
way except wall (maximum protrusion: 18 inches), canopy and marquee signs. All
signs located over public right-of-way or over any public or private access
route (sidewalks and the like) shall be located a minimum of 8 feet above
surface grade.
         (e)   All height restrictions on signs shall include height of sign
structure.
         (f)   In any district, any portion of any sign exceeding 2 square feet
shall be set back 3 feet from any rear or side yard property line.
         (g)   Any sign now or hereafter existing which no longer advertises or
identifies a bona fide business conducted, or a service rendered, or a product
sold, shall be removed by the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use
and/or control of the building or structure upon which the sign may be found
within 10 days after written notice from the Zoning Official.
         (h)   Any sign which becomes structurally unsafe or endangers the
safety of a building or premises or endangers the public safety, shall be taken
down and removed by the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the
building, structure or land upon which the sign is located within 10 days after
written notification from the City Zoning Official.
         (i)   Every outdoor advertising sign erected under the provisions of
this chapter shall be plainly marked with the name of the person, or firm
erecting the sign.
      (4)   Non-conforming signs.
         (a)   The following are non-conforming signs: all prohibited signs
including those not prohibited which do not conform to the provisions of this
division.
         (b)   A non-conforming sign may not be:
            1.   Changed to another non-conforming sign;
            2.   Structurally altered except to bring into compliance with the
provisions of this division;
            3.   Expanded;
            4.   Re-established after its removal; or
            5.   Re-established after damage of more than 50% of sign
replacement cost except to bring into compliance.
      (5)   District regulations. The following sections concern signs which
require application and permit.
         (a)   Within the A-O, R-1, R-2, R-3 (residential and institutional
uses, not including hospitals) and R-M Districts, signs are subject to the
following size and type regulations: institutional or area identification
signs, provided that the gross square footage of sign area does not exceed 18
square feet and if the sign is freestanding, the height does not exceed 8 feet.
         (b)   Within the R-2, B-1, B-2 and 1-1 Districts, signs are subject to
the following size and type regulations:
            1.   Within the R-2 (hospitals and commercial uses) District, the
maximum allowable square footage of sign area per lot shall not exceed the sum
of 1 square foot per front foot, up to 100 square feet. Each lot will be
allowed 1 ground sign and 1 wall sign or 2 wall signs total; and
            2.   Within the B-1, B-2 and I-1 District signs are subject to the
following regulations:
               a.   Wall signs. The maximum number of wall signs on any
principal building shall be 2;
               b.   Ground sign. The erection of 1 ground sign for any single
lot is allowed under the following provisions;
               c.   Conditional uses. In the case of a shopping center where
there are 2 or more business uses, a conditional use permit shall be granted to
the entire shopping center in accordance to an overall site plan indicating the
size, location and height of all signs presented to the Planning Commission. In
the case of applying this conditional use permit, a shopping center may have 1
ground or freestanding sign identifying the shopping center which is in
conformance with this chapter;
               d.   Parking area, driveways. No part of the ground sign shall
be less than 5 feet from any driveway or parking area;
               e.   Area, height regulations. The maximum square footage, for a
ground sign shall be 200 feet, or to be determined by the Planning Commission.
In no case shall the maximum height of a ground sign exceed 35 feet; and
               f.   Design. The bottom of the facing of every ground sign shall
be at least 3 feet above the ground which space may be filled with platform or
decorative trim of wood or metal construction.
   (N)   Home occupation.
      (1)   The regulation of home occupations within residential structures is
intended to ensure that the occupational use is clearly accessory or secondary
to the principal dwelling use and that compatibility with surrounding
residential uses is maintained.
      (2)   For purposes of this chapter, home occupations, as defined in §
152.02 above, shall be further defined to distinguish permitted home
occupations from conditionally permitted home occupations. Accordingly, all
home occupations that satisfy the permitted home occupation criteria shall be
considered as a permitted accessory use in all residential zoning districts.
Home occupations which fail to satisfy the permitted home occupation criteria,
shall require a conditional use permit, as provided for in §
152.02 above, and may be located in any residential zoning district based upon
conditions set forth in the approved conditional use permit.
      (3)   Permitted home occupations shall consist of:
         (a)   Businesses which require no interior or exterior changes
necessary to conduct the business; which are conducted within a principal
building; and which require no mechanical or electrical equipment not
customarily found in a home;
         (b)   Businesses that do not significantly alter the traffic pattern
of the neighborhood;
         (c)   Businesses that do not require employees other than those living
on the premises;
         (d)   Businesses which require no more than 20% of the gross floor
area of a dwelling, not to exceed 300 square feet including accessory building;
and
         (e)   Businesses that are not involved in direct sales on the premises
except as may be conducted through the use of the United States mail or by
taking and delivering orders by telephone.
      (4)   Conditionally permitted home occupations shall consist of those
home occupations that do not meet the provisions of division (N)(3) above. The
home occupation may be granted a conditional use permit provided that:
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall find that all business related
activity occurring on the premises shall not cause adverse changes to the
residential character of the neighborhood;
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall find that any exterior changes
necessary to conduct the business are sufficiently screened, properly designed
or separated by distance so as to be consistent with existing adjacent
residential uses and compatible with the residential character of the district;
         (c)   The Planning Commission shall find that any interior changes
necessary to conduct the business comply with all building electrical,
mechanical and fire codes governing the use in a residential occupancy; and
         (d)   The Planning Commission shall find that the traffic generated by
the business involves only vehicles of the type that typically service single
family residences and that the traffic constitutes neither a nuisance nor a
safety hazard.
   (O)   Interim use permit.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   The purpose and intent of allowing interim uses is to allow a
use for a limited period of time that reasonably utilizes the property where it
is not reasonable to utilize it in the manner provided in the Comprehensive
Plan; and to allow a use that is presently acceptable but that, with
anticipated development will not be acceptable in the future.
         (b)   For purposes of this chapter interim use permits shall apply to
all zoning districts as listed in §
152.04(A) below.
      (2)   Application, public hearing, notice and procedure. The application,
public hearing, public notice and procedure requirements for interim use permit
shall be the same as those for conditional use permits as provided in §
152.41 below.
      (3)   Standards. The Planning Commission shall recommend an interim use
permit and the Council shall issue the interim use permits only if it finds
that the use at the proposed location:
         (a)   Meets the standards of a conditional use permit set forth in §
152.41 below;
         (b)   Will terminate upon a date or event that can be identified with
certainty;
         (c)   Will not impose, by agreement, additional costs on the public if
it is necessary for the public to take the property in the future; and
         (d)   Will be subjected to, by agreement with the owner, any
conditions that the City Council has deemed appropriate for permission of the
use, including a condition that the owner will provide an appropriate financial
surety to cover the cost of removing the interim use and any interim structures
upon the expiration of the interim use permit.
      (4)   Termination. An interim use permit shall terminate upon the
occurrence of any of the following events, whichever first occurs:
         (a)   The date stated in the permit;
         (b)   A violation of conditions under which the permit was issued;
         (c)   A change in the city’s zoning regulations, which renders the use
nonconforming;
         (d)   Use has been discontinued for a minimum of 6 months; or
         (e)   If the Planning Commission recommends to the City Council that
an interim permit be terminated, and if the City Council agrees with the
Planning Commission’s recommendation, the City Council shall have the right and
power to terminate the interim use permit by giving 6 months written notice of
the termination to the property to whom the interim use was issued.
(Prior Code, § 18.103) (Am. Ord. 341, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 152.04     GENERAL DISTRICT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Establishment of districts. The following zoning classifications are
hereby established within the City of Slayton.
      (1)   Agricultural district: A-O; Agricultural-Open Space District.
      (2)   Residential districts:
         (a)   R-1; Low Density Residential District;
         (b)   R-2; Medium Density Residential District;
         (c)   R-3; Mobile Home Residential District; and
         (d)   R-M; Mobile Home Park District.
      (3)   Business districts:
         (a)   B-1; Highway Business District; and
         (b)   B-2; Central Business District.
      (4)   Industrial district: I-1; General Industrial District.
      (5)   Special districts:
         (a)   PUD; Planned Unit Development District; and
         (b)   W; Wetland Systems District.
   (B)   Map.
      (1)   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this
chapter are hereby set forth on the zoning map entitled “Zoning Map of
Slayton.”
      (2)   The map shall be on file with the Zoning Official, and hereinafter
referred to as the zoning map, which map and all of the notations, references
and other information shown thereon shall have the same force and effect as if
fully set forth herein and thereby made a part of this chapter by reference.
   (C)   Annexed territory. Annexed territory shall be in the A-O District,
unless special action is taken to place it in another district.
   (D)   Zoning district boundaries. Zoning district boundary lines of this
chapter follow lot lines, right-of-way lines, the center of streets or water
courses or the corporate limit lines, all as they exist upon the effective date
of this chapter. Where a district boundary line divides a lot at the time of
passage of this chapter, the extension of regulations for either portion of the
lot may be interpreted by the Slayton Planning Commission upon request of the
owner.
(Prior Code, § 18.104)
§ 152.05  OPT-OUT OF M.S. § 462.3593.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subd. 9, the city opts-out
of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and regulates temporary
family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 338, passed 7-18-2016)
DISTRICTS
§ 152.15     A-O AGRICULTURAL-OPEN SPACE DISTRICT.
   (A)   The A-O Agricultural-Open Space District is intended to provide a
district which will allow suitable areas of the city to be retained and
utilized in open space and/or agricultural uses, prevent scattered non-farm
uses from developing improperly and secure economy in government expenditures
for public utilities and services.
   (B)   The following are permitted uses in an A-O District:
      (1)   Agriculture, including farm dwellings and agricultural related
buildings and structures subject to Minnesota Pollution Control Standards,
except as provided for in division (D) below;
      (2)   Public parks, recreational areas, wildlife areas and game refuges;
      (3)   Nurseries and tree farms; and
      (4)   Essential services.
   (C)   The following are permitted accessory uses in an A-O District:
      (1)   Operation and storage of vehicles, equipment and machinery which
are incidental to permitted or conditional uses allowed in this district;
      (2)   The boarding or renting of rooms to not more than 2 persons; and
      (3)   Living quarters of persons employed on the premises.
   (D)   The following are conditional uses in an A-O District: (Requires a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §
152.41 below):
      (1)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures necessary
for the health, safety and general welfare of the community provided that:
         (a)   When abutting a residential use in a residential district, the
property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above; and
         (b)   The provisions of §
152.41(A)(5) below are considered satisfactorily met.
      (2)   Commercial outdoor recreational areas including golf courses, club
house, country clubs, swimming pools and similar facilities provided that:
         (a)   The principal use, function or activity is open, outdoor in
character;
         (b)   Not more than 5% of the land area of the site be covered by
buildings or structures;
         (c)   When abutting a residential use in a residential district the
property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above;
         (d)   The land area of the property containing the use or activity
meets the minimum established for the district; and
         (e)   The provisions of §
152.41(A)(5) below are considered and satisfactorily met.
      (3)   Commercial riding stables, dog kennels and similar uses provided
that:
         (a)   Animal building, holding, grazing and exercise areas are located
a minimum of 1,000 feet from any residential, commercial or industrial use
district;
         (b)   The land area of the property containing the use or activity
meets the minimum established for the district;
         (c)   The provisions of §
152.41(A)(5) below are considered and satisfactorily met; and
         (d)   All applicable requirements of the State Pollution Control
Agency are complied with.
      (4)   Recreational, travel vehicle campsites (not including mobile homes)
provided that:
         (a)   The land area of the property containing the use or activity
meets the minimum established for the district;
         (b)   The site be served by a major street capable of accommodating
traffic which will be generated;
         (c)   All driveways and parking areas be surfaced;
         (d)   Plans for utilities and waste disposal shall be reviewed by the
City Zoning Official and shall be subject to his or her approval, and all
applicable requirements of the State Pollution Control Agency are complied
with;
         (e)   Not more that 5% of the land area of the site be covered by
buildings or structures;
         (f)   The location of the use be a minimum 100 feet from any abutting
residential use district;
         (g)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with §
152.03(M) above and shall not impact adjoining or surrounding residential uses;
and
         (h)   The provisions of §
152.41(A)(5) below are considered and satisfactorily met.
      (5)   Airports (public only) provided that:
         (a)   Effective buffering is provided to reduce ground and landing
noise;
         (b)   Adequate fencing, control and protection is provided to prevent
unauthorized access into landing field areas;
         (c)   All landing fields and operating facilities are designed,
operated and maintained within and according to federal and state laws and
regulations;
         (d)   The addition of a new accessory commercial use or the change in
an existing commercial use shall require a conditional use permit and
conformance to the conditions of this section;
         (e)   Commercial uses are accessory as defined by §
152.02 above;
         (f)   Accessory commercial uses are totally enclosed within a
structure;
         (g)   Accessory commercial uses are intended to serve and support the
airport facilities and personnel and do not attract customers from the general
public or community;
         (h)   Any accessory commercial use or storage is at minimum 200 feet
from abutting residential districts or use boundaries;
         (i)   Open storage is screened and landscaped from view of abutting
residential districts and/or uses in compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above;
         (j)   Upon termination of airport activities all accessory commercial
activities shall cease and use and development of the site shall conform to the
applicable district regulations;
         (k)   The provisions of §
152.42(A)(5) below are considered and satisfactorily met; and
         (l)   All provisions and regulations contained in the Slayton
municipal airport zoning regulations are fully complied with.
(Prior Code, § 18.105)
§ 152.16  R-1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The purpose of the R-1 Low Density District is to provide for single-
family detached and 2-family residential dwelling units and directly related,
complementary uses.
   (B)   The following are permitted uses in an R-1 District:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Residential or day care facilities serving 6 or fewer individuals;
      (3)   Public parks and playgrounds; and
      (4)   Essential services.
   (C)   The following are permitted accessory uses in an R-1 District:
      (1)   Private garages, parking spaces and car ports for licensed and
operable passenger cars and trucks pursuant to §
71.51, as regulated by §
152.03(I) above. Private garages are intended for use to store the private
passenger vehicles of the family or families residing upon the premises, and in
which no business service or industry is carried on;
      (2)   Non-commercial greenhouses and conservatories;
      (3)   Swimming pool, tennis courts and other recreational facilities that
are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the
principal use and their guests provided that pools are completely enclosed
within a chain link or similar fence, at least 5 feet high;
      (4)   Tool houses, sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic
supplies and non-commercial recreational equipment; temporary storage/shelter
buildings such as hoop-type sheds made from canvas, metal, or other materials,
will require a 30 day temporary permit.  The temporary permit may be renewed 2
times for a maximum period of 90 days. Said structures must be located within
the rear yard within 30 feet of the rear property line.
      (5)   Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than 1 person;
      (6)   Solar energy systems; and
      (7)   All accessory structures on the parcel shall have exterior finish
materials and colors which conform to the exterior finishes of the primary
dwelling.
   (D)   The following are conditional uses in an R-1 District (require a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §
152.41 below):
      (1)   Public or semi-public recreational buildings and neighborhood or
community centers; public and private educational institutions limited to
elementary, junior high and senior high schools; and religious institutions
such as churches, chapels, temples and synagogues provided that:
         (a)   Side yards shall be double that required for the district, but
need not be more than 30 feet;
         (b)   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and
landscaping is provided in compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above;
         (c)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting a public street or alley to the principal use in
compliance with §
152.03(I) above and that parking is adequately screened and landscaped from
surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above;
         (d)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by §
152.03(J) above; and
         (e)   The provisions of §
152.41(A)(5) below are considered and satisfactorily met.
      (2)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures necessary
for the health, safety and general welfare of the community provided that:
         (a)    Conformity with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained and
required setbacks and side yard requirements are met;
         (b)   Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with
no outside storage;
         (c)   Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above; and
         (d)   The provisions of §
152.41(A)(5) below are considered and satisfactorily met.
      (3)   Residential planned unit development as regulated by §
152.24 below;
      (4)   Two-family dwellings, provided that:
         (a)   The grade, topography, drainage or character of the developed
lot shall not unreasonably restrict the amount of useable open space or create
a hazard;
         (b)   The structure is sited on the lot to permit safe vehicular
access with minimum conflict with traffic in the public right-of-way; and
         (c)   The provisions of §
152.41(A)(5) below are considered and satisfactorily met.
      (5)   Residential or day care facility serving more than 6 individuals;
      (6)   Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than 3 persons;
      (7)   Wind energy systems; and
   (E)   The following are lot area, lot width and yard requirements for a
single-family residence in an R-1 District:
      (1)   Lot area: 12,000 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 100 feet;
      (3)   Front yard: 30 feet from the public right-of-way or lot line;
except where 25% or more of the lots in a block are built upon, in which no
building shall be erected that is set back from the front lot line less than a
distance which shall be the average of the setbacks of adjoining structures or
of the adjoining structure and the required setback;
      (4)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width, with a maximum required side yard
of 10 feet; and
      (5)   Rear yard: 30 feet from the public right-of-way or lot line.
   (F)   The following are minimum lot area, lot width and yard requirements
for a 2-family residence and other uses allowed in an R-1 District; except for
a park or playground with no buildings:
      (1)   Lot area: 12,500 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 125 feet;
      (3)   Front yard: 30 feet; except where 25% or more of the lots in a
block are built upon, in which no building shall be erected that is set back
from the front lot line less than a distance which shall be the average of the
setbacks observed by adjoining structures or of the adjoining structure and the
required setback;
      (4)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width; and
      (5)   Rear yard: 30 feet.
   (G)   The following are general requirements in an R-1 District:
      (1)    Maximum building height: 2-1/2 stories;
      (2)    Off-street parking: as regulated in §
152.03(I)(8) above; and
      (3)    Dwelling width and floor area: as regulated in §
152.03(H) above.
(Prior Code, § 18.106) (Am. Ord. 340, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 152.17  R-2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   The purpose of the R-2 Medium Density Residential District is to
provide a mix of housing densities and for the transition in land use from
residential to limited commercial uses.
   (B)   The following are permitted uses in a R-2 District:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Public parks and playground;
      (3)   Two-family dwelling units;
      (4)   Boarding houses as defined by §
152.02 above and limited to not more than 5 persons;
      (5)   Essential services;
      (6)   Residential or day care facilities serving 6 or fewer individuals;
      (7)   Multiple-family dwellings: 4 dwelling units;
      (8)   Club or lodge without the serving of food or beverages;
      (9)   Public or semi-public recreational buildings and neighborhood or
community centers; public and private educational institutions limited to
elementary, junior high and senior high schools; and religious institutions
such as churches, chapels, temples and synagogues, provided that:
         (a)   Side yards shall be double that required for the district, but
need not be greater than 30 feet;
         (b)   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and
landscaping is provided in compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above;
         (c)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site
of on lots directly abutting a public street or alley to the principal use in
compliance with §
152.03(I) above and that parking is adequately screened and landscaped from
surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
152.03(F) above; and
         (d)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by §
152.03(J) above.
      (10)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures necessary
for the health, safety and general welfare of the community provided that:
         (a)   Conformity with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained and
required setbacks and side yard requirements are met;
         (b)   Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with
no outside storage; and
         (c)   Adequate screening from neighbor hooding uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above.
      (11)   Limited business and commercial uses as determined and approved by
the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The following are permitted accessory uses in an R-2 District:
      (1)   Private garages, parking spaces and car ports for licensed and
operable passenger cars and trucks pursuant to §
71.51, as regulated by §
152.03(I) above. Parking garages are intended for use to store the private
passenger vehicles of the family or families residing upon the premises, and in
which no business, service or industry is carried on;
      (2)   Non-commercial greenhouses and conservatories;
      (3)   Swimming pool, tennis courts and other recreational facilities
which are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the
principal use and their guests provided that pools are completely enclosed
within a chain link or similar fence, at least 5 feet high;
      (4)   Tool houses, sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic
supplies and non-commercial recreational equipment; temporary storage/shelter
buildings such as hoop-type sheds made from canvas, metal, and other materials,
will require a 30 day temporary permit.  The temporary permit may be renewed 2
times for a maximum period of 90 days.  Said structures must be located within
the rear yard within 30 feet of the rear property line.
      (5)   Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than 3 persons;
      (6)   Solar energy systems; and
      (7)   All accessory structures on the parcel shall have exterior finish
materials and colors which conform to the exterior finishes of the primary
dwelling.
   (D)   The following are conditional uses in an R-2 District. (Requires a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §
152.41 below):
      (1)   Residential planned unit development as regulated by §
152.24 below;
      (2)   Townhouses as defined in §
152.02 above;
      (3)   Boarding house of more than 5 persons;
      (4)   Multiple-family dwellings containing more than 4 dwelling units;
      (5)   Residential or day care facilities serving more than 6 individuals;
      (6)   Hospitals, medical offices and clinics, dental offices and clinics;
      (7)   Business and professional offices which are service oriented with
no retail sales or storage of goods;
      (8)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (9)   Nursing homes;
      (10)   Limited commercial or convenience type businesses such as: barber
and beauty shops, floral shops, gift and card shops and photography studios;
      (11)   Wind energy systems; and
      (12)   Expansion of existing uses are not permitted in divisions (B) or
(C) above, as determined to be suitable by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   The following are minimum lot area, lot width and yard requirements
for single-family residence in an R-2 District:
      (1)   Lot area: 9,600 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 80 feet;
      (3)   Front yard: 30 feet from the public right-of-way or lot line;
except, where 25% or more of the lots in a block are built upon, in which no
building shall be erected that is set back from the front lot line, less than a
distance which shall be the average of the setbacks observed by the adjoining
structures or of the adjoining structure and the required setback;
      (4)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width, with a maximum required side yard
of 10 feet; and
      (5)   Rear yard: 30 feet from the public right-of-way or lot line.
   (F)   The following are minimum lot area, lot width and yard requirements
for a 2-family residence and other uses allowed in an R-2 District; except for
a park or playground with no buildings:
      (1)   Lot area: 10,000 square feet for a 2-family dwelling plus 1,500
square feet for each additional dwelling unit;
      (2)   Lot width: 100 feet;
      (3)   Front yard: 30 feet; except where 25% or more of the lots in a
block are built upon, in which no building shall be erected that is set back
from the front lot line less than a distance which shall be the average of the
setbacks observed by adjoining structures or of the adjoining structure and the
required setback;
      (4)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width; and
      (5)   Rear yard: 30 feet.
   (G)   The following are general requirements in an R-2 District:
      (1)   Maximum height: 3 stories;
      (2)   Off-street parking: as regulated in §
152.03(I)(8) above; and
      (3)   Dwelling width and floor area: as regulated in §
152.03(H) above.
(Prior Code, § 18.107) (Am. Ord. 340, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 152.18     R-3 MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The purpose of the R-3 Mobile Home Residential District is to provide
for a variety of dwelling types including mobile homes in a low density
residential area.
   (B)   The following are permitted uses in an R-3 District:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (3)   Two-family dwellings;
      (4)   Essential services; and
      (5)   Residential or day care facilities serving 6 or fewer individuals.
   (C)   The following are permitted accessory uses in an R-3 District:
      (1)   Private garages, parking spaces and car ports for licensed and
operable passenger cars and trucks pursuant to §
71.51, as regulated by §
152.03(I) above. Private garages are intended for use to store the private
passenger vehicles of the family or families residing upon the premises, and in
which no business service or industry is carried on;
      (2)   Non-commercial greenhouses and conservatories;
      (3)   Swimming pool, tennis courts and other recreational facilities
which are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the
principal use and their quests provided that pools are completely enclosed
within a chain link or similar fence, at least 5 feet high;
      (4)   Tool houses, sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic
supplies and non-commercial recreational equipment; temporary storage/shelter
buildings such as hoop-type sheds made from canvas, metal, or other materials,
will require a 30 day temporary permit.  The temporary permit may be renewed 2
times for a maximum period of 90 days.  Said structures must be located within
the rear yard within 30 feet of the rear property line.
      (5)   Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than 3 persons;
      (6)   Solar energy systems; and
      (7)   All accessory structures on the parcel shall have exterior finish
materials and colors which conform to the exterior finishes of the primary
dwelling.
   (D)   The following are conditional uses in an R-3 District. (Requires a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §
152.41 below):
      (1)   Public or semi-public recreational buildings and neighborhood or
community centers; public and private educational institutions limited to
elementary, junior high and senior high schools; and religious institutions
such as churches, chapels, temples and synagogues provided that:
         (a)   Side yards shall be double that required for the district, but
need not be greater than 30 feet;
         (b)   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and
landscaping is provided in compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above;
         (c)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting a public street or alley to the principal use in
compliance with §
152.03(I) above and that parking is adequately screened and landscaped from
surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above;
         (d)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by §
152.03(J) above; and
         (e)   The provisions of §
152.41(A)(5) above are considered and satisfactorily met.
      (2)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures necessary
for the health, safety and general welfare of the community provided that:
         (a)   Conformity with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained and
required setbacks and side yard requirements are met;
         (b)   Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with
no outside storage;
         (c)   Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above; and
         (d)   The provisions of §
152.41(A)(5) above are considered and satisfactorily met.
      (3)   Residential planned unit development as regulated by §
152.24 below;
      (4)   Residential or day care facility serving more than 6 individuals;
      (5)   Wind energy systems;
      (6)   Multiple-family dwellings and townhouses containing no more than 4
dwelling units; and
      (7)   Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than 5 persons.
   (E)   The following are minimum lot area, lot width and yard requirements
for a single-family residence in an R-3 District:
      (1)   Lot area: 7,500 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 65 feet;
      (3)   Front yard: 30 feet from the public right-of-way or lot line;
except, where 25% or more of the lots in a block are built upon, in which no
building shall be erected that is set back from the front lot line, less than a
distance which shall be the average of the setbacks observed by the adjoining
structures or of the adjoining structure and the required setback;
      (4)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width, with a maximum required side yard
of 10 feet; and
      (5)   Rear yard: 30 feet from the public right-of-way or lot line.
   (F)   The following are minimum lot area, lot width and yard requirements
for a 2-family residence and other uses allowed in an R-3 District; except for
a park or playground with no buildings:
      (1)   Lot area: 10,000 square feet for a 2-family dwelling plus 1,500
square feet for each additional dwelling unit;
      (2)   Lot width: 100 feet;
      (3)   Front yard: 30 feet; except where 25% or more of the lots in a
block are built upon, in which no building shall be erected that is set back
from the front lot line, less than a distance which shall be the average of the
setbacks observed by adjoining structures or of the adjoining structure and the
required setback;
      (4)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width; and
      (5)   Rear yard: 30 feet.
   (G)   The following are general requirements in an R-3 District:
      (1)   Maximum building height: 2-1/2 stories;
      (2)   Off-street parking: as regulated in §
152.03(I)(8) above; and
      (3)   Dwelling width and floor area: as regulated in §
152.03(H) above.
(Prior Code, § 18.108) (Am. Ord. 340, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 152.19  R-M MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT.
   (A)   The purpose of the R-M Mobile Home Park District is to provide for
mobile home uses and directly related uses.
   (B)   The following are permitted uses in an R-M District: mobile home park.
      (1)   General provisions:
         (a)   No mobile home for residential purposes shall be permitted on
any site within the City of Slayton unless the site is part of an approved
mobile home park or unless it is located on land purchased by the mobile home
owner served by utilities as required by state law, and the land has been,
prior to passage of this chapter, specially developed and formally platted for
the placement of mobile homes;
         (b)   Mobile homes shall not be used for residential purposes in the
city if they:
            1.   Do not conform to the requirements of the Manufactured Home
Building Code of the State of Minnesota as may be amended;
            2.   Are in an unsanitary condition or have an exterior in bad
repair;
            3.   Are structurally unsound and do not protect the inhabitants
against all elements; or
            4.   Do not have adequate sewage facilities as required by the City
Council in accordance with Pollution Control Agency regulation.
         (c)   All land areas shall be:
            1.   Adequately drained;
            2.   Landscaped to control dust; and
            3.   Clean and free from refuse, garbage, rubbish or debris.
         (d)   No tents shall be used for other than recreational purposes in a
mobile home park;
         (e)   There shall be no outdoor camping anywhere in a mobile home
park;
         (f)   Access to mobile home parks shall be as approved by the city;
         (g)   All structures shall require a zoning permit from the Zoning
Official;
         (h)   The area beneath a mobile home unit shall be enclosed except
that the enclosure must have access for inspection;
         (i)   Laundry and clothing shall be hung out to dry only on lines
located in areas established and maintained exclusively for that purpose;
         (j)   The mobile home park shall have an adequate central community
building with the following features, unless individual unit provisions exist:
            1.   Laundry drying areas and machines;
            2.   Laundry washing machines;
            3.   Showers; and
            4.   Public toilets and lavatories.
         (k)   The building shall have adequate heating and be maintained in
safe, clean and sanitary condition.
      (2)   Site plan requirements:
         (a)   Legal description and size in acres of the proposed mobile home
park;
         (b)   Location and size of all mobile home sites, dead storage areas,
recreation areas, laundry drying areas, roadways, parking sites and all setback
dimensions (parking spaces, exact mobile home sites and the like);
         (c)   Detailed landscaping plans and specifications;
         (d)   Location and width of sidewalks;
         (e)   Plans for sanitary sewage disposal, surface drainage, water
systems, electrical service and gas service;
         (f)   Location and size of all streets abutting the mobile home park
and all driveways from such streets to the mobile home park;
         (g)   Road construction plans and specifications;
         (h)   Plans for any and all structures;
         (i)   Other information as required or implied by these mobile home
park standards or requested by public officials;
         (j)   Name and address of developer or developers;
         (k)   Description of the method of disposing of garbage and refuse;
         (l)   Detailed description of maintenance procedures and grounds
supervision; and
         (m)   Details as to whether all of area will be developed at once or
whether it will be developed a portion at a time.
      (3)   Design standards:
         (a)   Site:
            1.   Each mobile home site shall contain at least 6,000 square feet
of land area for the exclusive use of the occupant:
               a.   Width: no less than 60 feet; and
               b.   Depth: no less than 100 feet.
            2.   Each mobile home site shall have frontage on an approved
roadway and the corner of each mobile home site shall be marked and each site
shall be numbered.
         (b)   Individual mobile home unit setbacks:
            1.   No unit shall be parked closer than 5 feet to its side lot
lines nor closer than 20 feet to its front lot line, or within 10 feet of its
rear lot line; and
            2.   No unit, off-street parking space or building shall be located
within 30 feet of the exterior boundary of any mobile home park.
         (c)   Parking:
            1.   Each mobile home site shall have off-street parking space for
2 automobiles;
            2.   Each mobile home park shall maintain a hard surfaced off-
street parking lot for guests of occupants in the amount of 1 space for each 5
mobile home sites; and
            3.   Access drives off roads to all parking spaces and dwelling
sites shall be hard surfaced.
         (d)   Utilities:
            1.   All mobile homes shall be connected to a public water and
sanitary sewer system or a private water and sewer system approved by:
               a.   The City Council;
               b.   The State Department of Health; and
               c.   The Pollution Control Agency;
            2.   All installation for disposal of surface storm water must be
approved by the city;
            3.   All utility connections shall be as approved by the city;
            4.   The source of fuel for cooking, heating or other purposes at
each mobile home site shall be as approved by the city;
            5.   All utilities shall be underground; there shall be no overhead
wires or supporting poles except those essential for street or other lighting
purposes;
            6.   No obstruction shall be permitted that impedes the inspection
of plumbing, electrical facilities and related mobile home equipment;
            7.   The method of garbage, waste and trash disposal must be
approved by the city; and
            8.   Owner shall pay any required sewer connection fees to the
city.
         (e)   Internal roads and streets:
            1.   Roads shall be hard surfaced as approved by the city;
            2.   All roads shall have a hard surfaced (mountable, roll type)
curb and gutter;
            3.   All streets shall be developed with a roadbed of not less than
24 feet in width; and
            4.   If parking is permitted on the street, then the roadbed shall
be at least 36 feet in width.
         (f)   Recreation: all mobile home parks shall have at least 10% of the
land areas developed for recreational use (tennis courts, children’s play
equipment, swimming pool and the like) developed and maintained at the owner/
operator’s expense;
         (g)   Landscaping:
            1.   Each site shall be properly landscaped with trees, hedges,
grass, fences, windbreaks and the like;
            2.   A compact hedge, redwood fence or landscaped area shall be
installed around the mobile home park and be maintained at all times as
approved; and
            3.   All areas shall be landscaped in accordance with landscaping
plan approved by the City Council.
         (h)   Lighting: artificial light shall be maintained during all hours
of darkness in all buildings containing public toilets, laundry equipment and
the like.
   (C)   The following are permitted accessory uses in an R-M District:
      (1)   Swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational facilities
which are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the
principal use and their guests provided that pools are completely enclosed
within a chain link or similar fence, at least 5 feet high;
      (2)    Private garages; and
      (3)   Administrative offices, recreation, utility and laundry buildings
and other support facilities related to the mobile home park.
   (D)   The following are conditional uses in an R-M District: none.
   (E)   The following are minimum site standards for a mobile home park in an
R-M District:
      (1)   Lot area: 48,000 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 200 feet;
      (3)   Front yard: 30 feet from the public right-of-way;
      (4)   Side yard: 30 feet; and
      (5)   Rear yard: 30 feet.
   (F)   The following are minimum site standards for individual mobile home
lots in an R-M District:
      (1)   Lot area: 6,000 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 60 feet;
      (3)   Lot depth: 100 feet;
      (4)   Front yard: 20 feet;
      (5)   Side yard: 5 feet; and
      (6)   Rear yard: 10 feet.
(Prior Code, § 18.109)
§ 152.20     B-1 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   The purpose of the B-1 Highway Business District is to provide a
location for uses that are appropriate to thoroughfare locations, are largely
dependent upon thoroughfare traffic and are not altogether suitable within the
Central Business District.
   (B)   The following are permitted uses in a B-1 District:
      (1)   Auto accessory store;
      (2)   Motor vehicle, recreation equipment, tractor and implement sales
and repair shops;
      (3)   Commercial recreational uses;
      (4)   Motels, motor hotels and hotels;
      (5)   Restaurants, cafes, tearooms, liquor stores;
      (6)   Private clubs or lodges;
      (7)   Automobile service stations, for sale of gasoline, oil and
accessories;
      (8)   Tire and batteries shops;
      (9)   Drive-in and convenience food establishments;
      (10)   Car washes;
      (11)   Laundromats and dry-cleaning stores;
      (12)   Commercial nurseries and greenhouses;
      (13)   Grocery stores and supermarkets;
      (14)   Meat shops and cold storage lockers;
      (15)   Carpentry, plumbing, heating and air conditioning shops;
      (16)   Rental and repair shops;
      (17)   Retail supply stores;
      (18)   Furniture and other furnishings stores;
      (19)   Business and professional offices;
      (20)   Lumberyards and building supply center;
      (21)   Essential services;
      (22)   Existing dwellings; reconstruction or expansion of existing
dwellings; and
      (23)   Barber shop and beauty shops.
   (C)   The following are permitted accessory uses in a B-1 District:
      (1)   Off-street parking as resulted by §
152.03(I) above;
      (2)   Off-street loading as regulated by §
152.03(J) above;
      (3)   Semi trailer truck parking; and
      (4)   Solar energy systems.
   (D)   The following are conditional uses in a B-1 District: (Requires a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §
152.41 below):
      (1)   Open and outdoor storage as an accessory use provided that:
         (a)   The area is fenced and screened from view of neighboring a
residential uses or if abutting any residential district is in compliance with
§
152.03(F)(4) above; and
         (b)   Storage is screened from view from the public right-of-way in
compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above.
      (2)   Open or outdoor service, sale and rental as a principal or
accessory use. Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of
neighboring residential uses or an abutting residential district in compliance
with §
152.03(F)(4) above;
      (3)   Enclosed retail, rental or service activity other than that allowed
as a permitted use or conditional use within this section;
      (4)   Commercial planned unit development as regulated by §
152.24 below;
      (5)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures;
      (6)   Radio, television or other communications towers;
      (7)   Machine, welding or other metal shops;
      (8)   Warehouses;
      (9)   Wholesale establishments;
      (10)   Livestock sales barns and auction centers;
      (11)   Construction or contractors offices and yards;
      (12)   Accessory use other than that allowed as a permitted use or
conditional use within this section;
      (13)   Storage bins, tanks or other enclosed storage structures;
      (14)   Wind energy systems;
      (15)   Shopping center; and
      (16)   Other large-lot or highway-oriented commercial uses as determined
by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   The following are minimum lot area, lot width and yard requirements in
a B-1 District:
      (1)   Lot area: 10,000 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 90 feet;
      (3)   Front yard: 40 feet from the public right-of-way;
      (4)   Side yard: 10 feet; 30 feet if abutting a residential district; and
      (5)   Rear yard: 10 feet; 30 feet if abutting a residential district.
   (F)   The following are general requirements in a B-1 District:
      (1)   Maximum building height: 3 stories;
      (2)   Off-street parking: as regulated in §
152.03(I)(8) above; and
      (3)   Off-street loading/unloading: as regulated in §
152.03(J) above.
(Prior Code, § 18.110)
§ 152.21  B-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   The purpose of the B-2 Central Business District is to preserve and
enhance the Slayton Central Business District (CBD) as the primary center for
office and government employment and retail activities.
   (B)   The following are permitted uses in a B-2 District:
      (1)   Barber and beauty shops;
      (2)   Essential services;
      (3)   Convenience grocery stores (not supermarket type);
      (4)   Laundromats and dry cleaning stores;
      (5)   Commercial and professional offices;
      (6)   Insurance and real estate offices;
      (7)   Medical and dental offices;
      (8)   Auto accessory store;
      (9)   Motor vehicle and recreation equipment sales;
      (10)   Commercial recreational uses;
      (11)   Motels, motor hotels and hotels;
      (12)   Restaurants, cafes, tea rooms or liquor establishments;
      (13)   Private clubs or lodges;
      (14)   Retail sales establishments;
      (15)   Copy service;
      (16)   Costume, clothes rental;
      (17)   Electrical appliance stores;
      (18)   Employment agencies;
      (19)   Finance companies;
      (20)   Sewing machine sales and service;
      (21)   Shoe sales and repair service;
      (22)   Tailor shops;
      (23)   Theaters;
      (24)   Travel bureaus, transportation ticket offices;
      (25)   Government and public utility building;
      (26)   Bank, savings and loan, credit union and other financial
institutions;
      (27)   Locksmith;
      (28)   Plumbing, television, radio, electrical sales and such repair as
are accessory to the retail establishments permitted;
      (29)   Repair and rental shops of domestic or household type equipment
and items;
      (30)   Public utility collection offices;
      (31)   Libraries, museums or collection offices;
      (32)   Job printing, newspaper, lithographing or publishing shops;
      (33)   Cabinet or carpenter shops;
      (34)   Photography or music studios;
      (35)   Radio or television broadcasting studios;
      (36)   Automobile parking lots; excluding the parking of semi-trailer
trucks, buses, equipment and goods;
      (37)   Electrical, plumbing, heating and air conditioning shops;
      (38)   Existing dwellings; reconstruction or expansion of dwellings on
existing lots;
      (39)   Public or semi-public gathering and meeting places, including but
not limited to, senior citizen centers, youth centers and meal sites;
      (40)   Public or semi-public recreational parks and places; and
      (41)   Public restrooms and rest areas.
   (C)   The following are permitted accessory uses in a B-2 District:
      (1)   Off-street parking as regulated;
      (2)   Off-street loading as regulated; semi-trailer truck parking;
      (3)   Repair as is secondary to the retail sales permitted;
      (4)   Existing private garages; reconstruction of private garages; and
      (5)   Solar energy systems.
   (D)   The following are conditional uses in a B-2 District: (requires a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §
152.41 of this chapter):
      (1)   Open and outdoor storage as an accessory use provided that:
         (a)   The area is fenced and screened from view of neighboring
residential uses or if abutting a residential district in compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above;
         (b)   Storage is screened from view from public right-of-way in
compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above;
         (c)   Storage area is grassed or surfaced to control dust; and
         (d)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light
source shall not be visible from the public right-of-way or from neighboring
residences and shall be in compliance with §
152.03(F)(5) above.
      (2)   Open or outdoor service, sale and rental as an accessory use.
         (a)   Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of
neighboring residential uses or an abutting residential district in compliance
with §
152.03(F)(4) above.
         (b)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light
source shall not be visible from the public right-of-way or from neighboring
residences and shall be in compliance with §
152.03(F)(5) above.
         (c)   Sales area is grassed or surfaced to control dust.
      (3)   Automobile service stations, for sale of gasoline, oil and
accessories;
      (4)   Lumber yards and building supply centers;
      (5)   Farm, feed and seed stores and lawn and garden supply centers;
      (6)   Other enclosed retail or service establishment as to be determined
by the Planning Commission;
      (7)   Elevators, storage bins, tanks and other enclosed storage
structures;
      (8)   Multi-family dwellings or apartments; and
      (9)   Wind energy systems.
   (E)   The following are minimum lot area, lot width and yard requirements,
except for residences in the B-2 District:
      (1)   Lot area: 2,000 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 20 feet;
      (3)   Front yard: none; 40 feet for other than commercial or residential
uses;
      (4)   Side yard: none; 30 feet if abutting a residential district; and
      (5)   Rear yard: none; 30 feet if abutting a residential district.
   (F)   The following are minimum lot area, lot width and yard requirements
for residences in the B-2 District:
      (1)   Lot area: 12,500 square feet for a 3-family dwelling plus 1,500
square feet for each additional dwelling unit;
      (2)   Lot width: 100 feet for a multi-family dwelling;
      (3)   Front yard: 15 feet for all dwellings or the average of the
adjoining residence and the required setback;
      (4)   Side yard: 5 feet; and
      (5)   Rear yard: 20 feet.
   (G)   The following are general requirements in a B-2 District:
      (1)   Maximum building height: 3 stories; and
      (2)   Off-street parking: as regulated in §
152.03(I)(8) above for lots over 12,000 square feet in area. None for
commercial uses on lots under 12,000 square feet in area. As regulated, for
other lots under 12,000 square feet in area.
(Prior Code, § 18.111)
§ 152.22  I-1 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The purpose of the I-1 Industrial District is to provide a location
for warehousing, bulk storage, wholesaling, processing, light and heavy
manufacturing and related industrial development.
   (B)   The following are permitted uses in an I-1 District:
      (1)   Radio and television and other communications towers;
      (2)   Research laboratories;
      (3)   Trade school;
      (4)   Machine, welding or other metal shops;
      (5)   Warehouses;
      (6)   Essential services;
      (7)   Governmental and public utility building and structures;
      (8)   Manufacturing, compounding, assembly, packaging or treatment of
pre-prepared or pre-fabricated products or materials;
      (9)   Laundry, carpet and rug cleaning;
      (10)   Bottling establishments;
      (11)   Building material sales and storage;
      (12)   Cartage and express facilities;
      (13)   Stationery, bookbinding and other types of manufacturing of raw
material for paper production;
      (14)   Electric light or power generating stations, electrical and
electronic products manufacture electrical service shops;
      (15)   Engraving, printing and publishing plants;
      (16)   Wholesale business and office establishments;
      (17)   Other industrial related shops, offices and yards as determined by
the Planning Commission; and
      (18)   Commercial recreational uses.
   (C)   The following are permitted accessory uses in an I-1 District:
      (1)   Off-street parking as regulated by §
152.03(J) above;
      (2)   Semi-trailer truck parking;
      (3)   Off-street loading as regulated by §
152.03(J) above; and
      (4)   Solar energy systems.
   (D)   The following are conditional uses in an I-1 District: (require a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §
152.41 below):
      (1)   Open and outdoor storage as an accessory use provided that:
         (a)   The area is fenced and screened from view of neighboring
residential uses or if abutting a residential district in compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above;
         (b)   Storage is screened from view from public right-of-way in
compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above;
         (c)   Storage area is grassed or surfaced to control dust; and
         (d)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light
source shall not be visible from the public right-of-way or from neighboring
residences and shall be in compliance with §
152.03(F)(5) above.
      (2)   Open or outdoor service, sale and rental as an accessory use.
         (a)   Outside service, sales and equipment rental connected with the
principal use is limited to 30 percent of the gross floor area of the principal
use.
         (b)   Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of
neighboring residential uses or an abutting residential district in compliance
with §
152.03(F)(4) above.
         (c)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light
source shall not be visible from the public right-of-way or from neighboring
residences and shall be in compliance with §
152.03(F)(5) above.
         (d)   Sales area is grassed or surfaced to control dust.
      (3)   Storage, manufacturing, processing or testing of chemicals, fuels,
fertilizer, feed or grain;
      (4)   Livestock packing or processing plants;
      (5)   Refineries or distilleries;
      (6)   Gasoline and oil bulk stations and distributing plants;
      (7)   Extraction of minerals or other materials;
      (8)   Wind energy systems;
      (9)   Industrial planned unit development as regulated by §
152.24 below; and
      (10)   Other large-lot commercial and industrial uses as determined by
the Planning Commission.
   (E)   The following are lot coverage and minimum lot width and yard
requirements in the I-1 District:
      (1)   Lot coverage: maximum lot coverage of 75%;
      (2)   Lot width: 150 feet;
      (3)   Front yard: 40 feet;
      (4)   Side yard: 25 feet; 30 feet if abutting a residential district; and
      (5)   Rear yard: 40 feet; 75 feet if abutting a residential district.
   (F)   The following are general requirements in an I-1 District:
      (1)   Maximum building height: 4 stories;
      (2)   Off-street parking: as regulated in §
152.03(I) above; and
      (3)   Off-street loading/unloading: as regulated in §
152.03(J) above.
(Prior Code, § 18.112)
§ 152.23  PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   The purpose of the PUD Planned Unit Development District is to provide
for the integration and coordination of land parcels as well as the combination
of varying types of residential, commercial and industrial uses.
   (B)   The following are permitted uses in a PUD District: all permitted uses
in §§
152.16 through
152.22 above.
   (C)   The following are permitted accessory uses in a PUD District: all
accessory uses allowed in §§
152.16 through
152.22 above.
   (D)   The following are conditional uses in a PUD District. (require a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §
152.41 of this chapter): all conditional uses allowed in §§
152.16 through
152.22 above.
   (E)   The establishment of a PUD Planned Unit Development District shall be
subject to the amendment requirements as outlined in §
152.41 below, plus the procedures and conditions imposed by §
152.24 below.
(Prior Code, § 18.113)
§ 152.24     PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the grouping of land
parcels for development as an integrated, coordinated unit as opposed to
traditional parcel-by-parcel, piecemeal, sporadic and unplanned approach to
development.
      (2)   This section is intended to introduce flexibility of site design
and architecture for the conservation of land and open space through clustering
of buildings and activities.
      (3)   It is further intended that Planned Unit Developments are to be
characterized by central management, integrated planning and architecture,
joint or common use of parking, maintenance of open space and other similar
facilities and a harmonious selection and efficient distribution of uses.
   (B)   General requirements and standards.
      (1)   Ownership.
         (a)   An application for PUD approval must be filed by the landowner
or jointly by all landowners of the property included in a project.
         (b)   The application and all submissions must be directed to the
development of the property as a unified whole.
         (c)   In the case of multiple ownership, the approved final plan shall
be binding on all owners.
      (2)   Operating and maintenance requirements for PUD common open space/
facilities. Whenever common open space or service facilities are provided
within the PUD, the PUD plan shall contain provisions to assure the continued
operation and maintenance of the open space and service facilities to a
predetermined reasonable standard. Common open space and service facilities
within a PUD may be placed under the ownership of 1 or more persons, as
approved by the City Council:
         (a)   Landlord control, where only use by tenants is anticipated; and
         (b)   Property Owners Association, provided all of the following
conditions are met:
            1.   Prior to the use or occupancy or sale or the execution of
contracts for sale of an individual building unit, parcel, tract, townhouse,
apartment or common area, a declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions or an equivalent document shall be filed with the City of Slayton,
the filing with the city to be made prior to the filing of the declaration or
document or floor plans which the recording officers of Murray County,
Minnesota;
            2.   The declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions or
equivalent document shall specify that deeds, leases or documents of conveyance
affecting buildings, units, parcels, tracts, townhouses or apartments shall
subject the properties to the terms of the declaration;
            3.   The declaration of covenants, and restrictions shall provide
that an owners’ association or corporation shall be formed and that all owners
shall be members of the association or corporation which shall maintain all
properties and common areas in good repair and which shall assess individual
property owners proportionate shares of joint or common costs. This declaration
shall be subject to the review and approval of the City Attorney. The intent of
this requirement is to protect the property values of the individual owner
through establishing effective private control;
            4.   The declaration shall additionally, amongst other things,
provide that in the event the association or corporation fails to maintain
properties in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the City
of Slayton or fails to pay taxes or assessments on properties as they become
due and in the event the City of Slayton incurs any expenses in enforcing its
rules and regulations, which the expenses are not immediately reimbursed by the
association or corporation, then the City of Slayton shall have the right to
assess each property its pro-rata share of the expenses. These assessments,
together with interest thereon and costs of collection, shall be a lien on each
property against which each assessment is made;
            5.   Membership must be mandatory for each owner, and any
successive buyer;
            6.   The open space restrictions must be permanent and not for a
given period of years;
            7.   The association must be responsible for liability insurance,
local taxes and the maintenance of the open space facilities to be deeded to
it;
            8.   Property owners must pay their pro-rata share of the cost of
the association by means of an assessment to be levied by the association that
meets the requirements for becoming a lien on the property in accordance with
Minnesota Statutes;
            9.   The association must be able to adjust the assessment to meet
changed needs; and
            10.   The by-laws and rules of the association and all covenants
and restrictions to be recorded must be approved by the City Council prior to
the approval of the final PUD plan.
      (3)   Utilities. In any PUD, all utilities, including telephone,
electricity, gas and telecable shall be installed underground.
      (4)   Utility connections.
         (a)   Water connections. Where more than 1 property is served from the
same service line, a shut off valve must be located in a way so that each
unit’s service may be shut off by the city, in addition to the normally
supplied shut off at the street.
         (b)   Sewer connections. Where more than 1 unit is served by a
sanitary sewer lateral which exceeds 300 feet in length, provision must be made
for a manhole to allow adequate cleaning and maintenance of the lateral. All
maintenance and cleaning shall be the responsibility of the property owners
association or owner.
      (5)   Landscaping. In any PUD, landscaping shall be provided according to
a plan approved by the Planning Commission that shall include a detailed
planting list with sizes and species indicated as part of the final plan. In
assessing the landscaping plan, the Planning Commission shall consider the
natural features of the particular site, the architectural characteristics of
the proposed structures and the overall scheme of the PUD plan.
      (6)   Public services. The proposed project shall be served by the city
water and sewer system and fire hydrants shall be installed at locations as is
necessary to provide fire protection.
      (7)   Building height. Height limitations shall be the same as imposed in
the respective districts.
      (8)   Site improvement agreement.
         (a)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit as part of Planned
Unit Development, the applicant, builder or developer shall execute and deliver
to the Planning Commission a site improvement agreement providing for the
installation within 1 year of the improvements as approved by the Planning
Commission, secured by a case escrow or surety bond in an amount and with
surety and conditions satisfactory to the city, to ensure the city, that the
improvements will be actually constructed and installed according to
specifications and plans approved by the city as expressed in the agreement.
         (b)   The amount of the bond shall be 1-1/2 times the estimated cost
of the improvements as determined by the City Zoning Official.
   (C)   Special requirements and standards.
      (1)   Residential requirements and standards.
         (a)   Purpose. It is the intent of this section to establish special
requirements for the granting of a conditional use permit for residential PUD
projects which are in compliance with the permitted and conditional uses
allowed in a specific district including dwellings, offices and institutional
uses of 1 or more buildings in relation to an overall design, and integrated
physical plan and in accordance with the provisions and procedures as
prescribed in this chapter.
         (b)   Required frontage. The tract of land for which a project is
proposed and permit requested shall not have less than 200 feet of frontage on
the public right-of-way.
         (c)   Yards.
            1.   The front and side yard restrictions at the periphery of the
Planned Unit Development site at a minimum shall be the same as imposed in the
respective districts.
            2.   No building shall be nearer than its building height to the
rear or side property line when the line abuts an R-1 or R-2 District.
            3.   No building shall be located less than 15 feet from the back
of the curb line along those roadways which are part of the internal street
pattern.
            4.   No building within the project shall be nearer to another
building than 1/2 the sum of the building heights of the 2 buildings.
         (d)   Density bonus. As a consequence of a Planned Unit Development’s
planned and integrated character, the number of dwelling units allowed within
the respective zoning district may be increased by 20%. The building, parking
and similar requirements for these extra units shall be observed in compliance
with this chapter.
         (e)   Minimum project size. The tract of land for which a residential
PUD is proposed shall not be less than 1 acre.
      (2)   Commercial or Industrial Planned Unit Development.
         (a)   Purpose. The intent of this is to establish special requirements
for the granting of a conditional use permit to allow commercial or industrial
PUD projects which are in compliance with the permitted and conditional uses
allowed in a specific district in 1 or more buildings in relation to an overall
design, an integrated physical plan and in accordance with the provisions and
procedures as prescribed in this chapter.
         (b)   Frontage. The tract of land for which a project is proposed and
a permit requested shall not have less than 200 feet of frontage on a public
right-of-way.
         (c)   Yard. No building shall be nearer than 50 feet to the side or
rear property line when the line abuts an R-1, R-2, R-3 or A-O District.
         (d)   Landscaping, screening and surfacing.
            1.   The entire site other than that taken up by structures or
landscaping shall be surfaced with a material to control dust and drainage.
            2.   A drainage system subject to the approval of the City Zoning
Official shall be installed.
            3.   Developments abutting an R-1, R-2, R-3 or R-M district shall
be screened and landscaped in compliance with §
152.03(F)(4) above.
         (e)   Minimum project size. The tract of land for which a commercial
or industrial PUD is proposed shall not be less than 2 acres.
      (3)   Mixed use Planned Unit Development.
         (a)   Purpose. The intent of this section is to establish special
requirements for the granting of a zoning district amendment (rezoning) to
allow mixed use PUD projects which are in compliance with the permitted and
conditional uses allowed within the PUD District (§
152.23 above) and in accordance with the provisions and procedures as
prescribed in this section.
         (b)   Minimum project size. The tract of land for which a mixed use
PUD is proposed shall not contain less than 2 acres.
         (c)   Frontage. The tract of land for which the project is proposed
shall not have less than 200 feet of frontage on a public right-of-way.
         (d)   Yards. Setbacks shall be consistent with those required in §
152.03 above.
         (e)   Landscaping, screening and surfacing. All site treatment shall
be consistent with the requirements of §
152.03(F)(4) above.
   (D)   Procedure for processing a Planned Unit Development.
      (1)   General concept plan.
         (a)   Purpose. The general concept plan provides an opportunity for
the applicant to submit a plan to the city showing the basic intent and the
general nature of the entire development without incurring substantial cost.
This concept plan serves as the basis for the public hearing so that the
proposal may be publicly considered at an early stage. The following elements
of the proposed general concept plan represent the immediately significant
elements which the city shall review and for which a decision shall be
rendered:
            1.   Overall maximum PUD density range;
            2.   General location of major streets and pedestrian ways;
            3.   General location and extent of public and common open space;
            4.   General location of residential and non-residential land uses
with approximate types and intensities of development;
            5.   Staging and time schedule of development; and
            6.   Other special criteria for development.
         (b)   Process.
            1.   Developer files application for a conditional use permit or
rezoning concurrently with the submission of the general concept plan with the
Zoning Official.
            2.   Planning Commission formally acknowledges submission of the
application for conditional use permit, sets a public hearing and refers the
application back to the appropriate city staff for their official review.
            3.   Planning Commission holds a public hearing.
            4.   Planning Commission makes a recommendation to the City Council
on the permit application.
            5.   City Council reviews all recommendations and approves/denies
application.
         (c)   Limitation on general concept plan approval. Unless a
development stage plan has been filed within 9 months from the date Council
grants general concept plan approval, the approval may be revoked by Council
action. The Council, at its discretion, may extend the filing deadline for a
development stage plan when, for good cause shown, the extension is necessary.
      (2)   Development stage.
         (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the development stage plan is to provide
a specific and particular plan upon which the Planning Commission will base its
recommendation to the Council and with which substantial compliance is
necessary for the preparation of the final plan.
         (b)   Submission of development stage. Upon approval of the general
concept plan, and within the time established by division (D)(1)(c) above, the
applicant shall submit to the city a development stage plan consisting of the
information and submissions required by division (E) below for the PUD. The
development stage plan shall refine, implement and be in substantial conformity
with the approved general concept plan.
         (c)   Review and action by city staff and Planning Commission.
Immediately upon receipt of a completed development stage plan, the Zoning
Official shall refer the plan to the appropriate city staff and Planning
Commission.
         (d)   Process.
            1.   Planning Commission formally acknowledges submission and
receipt of development plan and sets a public hearing.
            2.   Planning Commission holds a public hearing.
            3.   Within 60 days of the public hearing or a further time as may
be agreed to by the applicant, the Planning Commission shall review the reports
and plans and submit its written report and recommendations to the Council and
applicant. The report shall contain the findings of the Planning Commission
with respect to the conformity of the development stage plan to the approved
general concept plan, with respect to the merit or lack of merit of any
departure of the development stage plan for substantial conformity with the
concept plan and with respect to the compliance of the development stage plan
with the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable federal, state and
local codes and ordinances. If the Planning Commission shall find substantial
conformity between the plans or that any lack of substantial conformity merits
approval and shall further find the development stage plan to be in all other
respects complete and in compliance with this chapter and other applicable
federal, state and local codes and ordinances, it may recommend approval of the
plan.
            4.   Within 30 days of receipt of the report and recommendation of
the Planning Commission, the Council may grant approval, resubmit the plan to
the Planning Commission for further consideration of specified items or deny
approval of the plan.
            5.   The City Attorney shall draw up a PUD agreement which
stipulates the specific terms and conditions established and approved by the
City Council and accepted by the applicant. This agreement shall be signed by
the Mayor of the City of Slayton, Zoning Official and the applicant within 30
days of Council approval of the development stage plan. Where the development
stage plan is to be resubmitted or denied approval, Council action shall be in
the form of a written report setting forth the reasons for its action. In all
cases, a certified copy of the document evidencing Council action shall be
promptly delivered to the applicant.
         (e)   Limitation on detailed plan approval. Unless a final plan has
been filed within 6 months from the date Council grants development stage plan
approval, the approval shall expire. The Council may at its discretion, extend
for not more than 6 months, the filing deadline for any final plan when, for
good cause shown, the extension is necessary. In any case where development
plan approval expires, the Council shall forthwith adopt a resolution repealing
the general concept plan and development stage plan approval and re-
establishing the zoning and other code provisions that would otherwise be
applicable.
         (f)   Review and evaluation criteria. The evaluation of the proposed
development stage plan shall include but not be limited to the following
criteria:
            1.   Adequate property control is provided to protect the
individual owners’ rights and property values and the public responsibility for
maintenance and upkeep;
            2.   The interior circulation plan plus access from and onto public
rights-of-way does not create congestion or dangers and is adequate for the
safety of the project residents and the general public;
            3.   A sufficient amount of useable open space is provided;
            4.   The arrangement of buildings, structures and accessory uses
does not unreasonably disturb the privacy or property values of the surrounding
residential uses;
            5.   The architectural design of the project is compatible with the
surrounding area;
            6.   The drainage and utility system plans are submitted to the
City Zoning Official and the final drainage and utility plans shall be subject
to his or her approval;
            7.   The development schedule ensures a logical development of the
site, which will protect the public interest and conserve land;
            8.   The development is in compliance with the requirements of
Chapter 151 of this code;
            9.   Dwelling unit and accessory use requirements are in compliance
with the district provisions in which the development is planned; and
            10.   The provisions of §
152.41(A)(5) below are considered and satisfactorily met.
      (3)   Final plan.
         (a)   Purpose. The final plan is to serve as a complete, thorough and
permanent public record of the PUD and the manner in which it is to be
developed. It shall incorporate all prior approved plans and all approved
modifications thereof resulting from the PUD process. It shall serve in
conjunction with other city ordinances as the land use regulation applicable to
the PUD.
         (b)   Submission of final plan. Upon approval of the development stage
plan and within the time established by division (D)(2)(e) above, the applicant
shall submit to the city a final plan consisting of the information and
submissions required by the Zoning Official, division (E) below for the PUD.
The final plan is intended only to add detail to, and to put in final form, the
information contained in the general concept plan and the development stage
plan and shall conform to the development stage plan in all respects.
         (c)   Recording of final plan. Within 10 days of its approval by the
Zoning Official the applicant shall cause the final plan, or portions thereof
as are appropriate, to be recorded with the County Recorder.
         (d)   Zoning and other permits. Except as otherwise expressly provided
herein, upon receiving notice that the approved final plan has been recorded
pursuant to the applicable ordinances of the city, all appropriate officials of
the city may issue building and other permits to the applicant for development,
construction and other work, provided, however, that no like permit shall be
issued unless the appropriate official is first satisfied that the requirements
of all codes and ordinances in which are applicable to the permit sought, have
been satisfied
         (e)   Limitation on final plan approval. Within 1 year after the
approval of a final plan for PUD, or a shorter time as may be established by
the approved development schedule, construction shall commence in accordance
with the approved plan. Failure to commence construction within that period
shall, unless an extension shall have been granted as hereinafter provided,
automatically render void the PUD permit and all approvals of the PUD plan and
the area encompassed within the PUD shall thereafter be subject to those
provisions of this chapter, and other ordinances, applicable in the original
district in which it is located. In that case, the Council shall forthwith
adopt a resolution re-establishing the zoning and other ordinance provisions
that would otherwise be applicable.
   (E)   Submission requirements. Twelve copies of the following exhibits,
analyses and plans shall be submitted to the Planning Commission and Council
during the PUD process, at the times specified in division (D) above.
      (1)   General concept stage.
         (a)   General information:
            1.   The landowner’s name and address and his or her interest in
the subject property;
            2.   The applicant’s name and address if different from the
landowner;
            3.   The names and addresses of all professional consultants who
have contributed to the development of the PUD plan being submitted, including
attorney, land planner, engineer and surveyor; and
            4.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the
subject property to effectuate the proposed PUD, including a statement of all
legal, beneficial, tenancy and contractual interests held in or affecting the
subject property and including an up-to-date certified abstract of title or
registered property report, and other evidence as the City Attorney may require
to show the status of title or control of the subject property.
         (b)   Present status:
            1.   The address and legal description of the subject property;
            2.   The existing zoning classification and present use of the
subject property and all lands within 500 feet of the subject property; and
            3.   A map depicting the existing development of the subject
property and all land within 500 feet thereof and showing the precise location
of existing streets, property lines, easements, water mains and storm and
sanitary sewers, with elevations on and within 100 feet of the subject
property.
         (c)   A written statement generally describing the proposed PUD and
its purpose, and how the proposed PUD is to be designed, arranged and operated
in order to permit the development and use of neighboring property in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the city.
         (d)   Site conditions: where deemed necessary by the city, graphic
reproductions of the existing site conditions at a scale of 100 feet shall be
submitted and shall contain the following:
            1.   Contours: minimum 2 foot intervals;
            2.   Location, type and extent of tree cover;
            3.   Slope analysis;
            4.   Location and extent of water bodies, wetlands and streams and
flood plains within 300 feet of the subject property;
            5.   Significant rock outcroppings;
            6.   Existing drainage patterns;
            7.   Vistas and significant views;
            8.   Soil conditions as they affect development; and
            9.   All of the graphics should be the same scale as the final plan
to allow easy cross-reference. The use of overlays is recommended for clear
reference.
         (e)   Schematic drawing of the proposed development concept including
but not limited to the general location of major circulation elements, public
and common open space, residential and other land use.
         (f)   A statement of the estimated total number of dwelling units
proposed for the PUD and a tabulation of the proposed approximate allocations
of land use expressed in acres and as a percent of the total project area,
which shall include at least the following:
            1.   Area devoted to residential uses;
            2.   Area devoted to residential use by building type;
            3.   Area devoted to common open space;
            4.   Area devoted to public open space;
            5.   Approximate area devoted to streets;
            6.   Approximate area, and potential floor area, devoted to
commercial uses; and
            7.   Approximate area, and potential floor area, devoted to
industrial or office uses.
         (g)   When the proposed PUD includes provisions for public or common
open space or service facilities a statement describing the provision that is
to be made for the care and maintenance of open space or service facilities
shall be included. If it is proposed that the open space be owned and/or
maintained by any entity other than a governmental authority, copies of the
proposed articles of incorporation and by-laws of the entity shall be submitted
during the development stage.
         (h)   General intents of any restrictive covenants that are to be
recorded with respect to property included in the proposed PUD.
         (i)   Where deemed necessary, a market feasibility study including an
analysis of the proposal’s economic impact on the city.
      (2)   Development stage. Development stage submissions should depict and
outline the proposed implementation of the general concept stage for the PUD.
Information from the general concept stage may be included for background and
to provide a basis for the submitted plan. The development stage submissions
shall include but not be limited to:
         (a)   Zoning classification required for development stage submission
and any other public decisions necessary for implementation of the proposed
plan;
         (b)   Twelve sets of preliminary plans, drawn to a scale of not less
than 1 inch equals 100 feet (or scale requested by the city) containing at
least the following information:
            1.   Proposed name of the development (which shall not duplicate
nor be similar in pronunciation to the name of any plat theretofore recorded in
the county wherein the subject property is situated);
            2.   Property boundary lines and dimensions of the property and any
significant topographical or physical features of the property;
            3.   The location, size, use and arrangement including height in
stories and feet and total square feet of ground area coverage and floor area,
or proposed buildings, and existing buildings which will remain, if any;
            4.   Location, dimensions and number of all driveways entrances,
curb cuts, parking stalls, loading spaces and access aisles, and all other
circulation elements including bike and pedestrian; and the total site coverage
of all circulation elements;
            5.   Location, designation and total area of all common open space;
            6.   Location, designation and total area proposed to be conveyed
or dedicated for public open space, including parks, playgrounds, school sites
and recreational facilities;
            7.   Proposed lots and blocks, if any, and numbering system;
            8.   The location, use and size of structures and other land uses
on adjacent properties;
            9.   Preliminary sketches of proposed landscaping;
            10.   General grading and drainage plans for the developed PUD; and
            11.   Any other information that may have been required by the
Planning Commission or Council in conjunction with the approval of the general
concept plan.
         (c)   An accurate legal description of the entire area within the PUD
for which final development plan approval is sought;
         (d)   A tabulation indicating the approximate gross square footage, if
any, of commercial and industrial floor space by type of activity (e.g. drug
store, dry cleaning, supermarket);
         (e)   Preliminary architectural plans indicating use, floor plan,
elevations and exterior wall finishes of proposed buildings, including mobile
homes;
         (f)   A detailed site plan, suitable for recording, showing the
physical layout, design and purpose of all streets, easements, rights-of-way,
utility lines and facilities, lots, blocks, public and common open space,
general landscaping plan, structures, including mobile homes and uses;
         (g)   Preliminary grading and site alteration plan illustrating
changes to existing topography and natural site vegetation. The plan should
clearly reflect the site treatment and its conformance with the approved
concept plan;
         (h)   A preliminary and final plat prepared by a land surveyor, duly
registered in the State of Minnesota, in accordance with the statutes of
Minnesota which shall contain a notarized certification by the surveyor that
the plat represents a survey made by him or her and that the monuments shown
therein exist as located and that all dimensions are correct, as required by
Minnesota Statutes, and a notarized certification by owner or owners of the
adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other public areas as
required by Minnesota Statutes;
         (i)   A soil erosion control plan acceptable to watershed districts,
Department of Natural Resources or any other agency with review authority
clearly illustrating erosion control measures to be used during construction
and as permanent measures;
         (j)   A statement summarizing all changes which have been made in any
document, plan data of information previously submitted, together with revised
copies of any like document, plan or data;
         (k)   Further information as the Planning Commission, city staff or
Council shall find necessary to a full consideration of the entire proposed
PUD; and
         (l)   The Planning Commission may, by a written order, excuse any
applicant from submitting any specific item of information or required document
which it finds to be unnecessary to the consideration of the specific proposal
for PUD approval.
      (3)   Final plan stage. After approval of a general concept and
development stage plan for the proposed PUD the applicant will submit the
following material for review by the city staff prior to issuance of a building
permit:
         (a)   A detailed landscaping plan;
         (b)   Proof of recording any easements and restrictive covenants prior
to the sale of any land or dwelling unit with the PUD and of the establishment
and activation of any entity that is to be responsible for the management and
maintenance of any public or common open space or service facility;
         (c)   All certificates, seals and signatures required for the
dedication of land and recordation of documents;
         (d)   Final architectural working drawings of all structures;
         (e)   Final engineering plans and specifications for streets,
utilities and other public improvements, together with a community/developer
agreement for the installation of the improvements and financial guarantees for
the completion of the improvements; and
         (f)   Any other plan, agreements or specifications necessary for the
city staff to review the proposed construction. All work must be in conformance
with the Minnesota State Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 18.114)
§ 152.25     W WETLAND SYSTEMS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. A district relating to low lands, marshes, wetlands, drainage
ways, water bodies and water courses regulating alteration and development of
those lands and providing for the issuance of permits therefore, and
specifically to:
      (1)   Reduce danger to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
Slayton by protecting surface and ground water supplies from the impairment
which results from incompatible land uses and alterations, and by providing
safe and sanitary drainage;
      (2)   Restrict and control land development so it will not impede the
flow of flood water or cause danger to life or property;
      (3)   Designate suitable land uses that are compatible with the
preservation of the natural vegetation and marshes which are a principal factor
in the maintenance of constant rates of water flow through the year and which
sustain many species of wildlife and plant growth;
      (4)   Regulate runoff of surface waters from developed areas to prevent
pollutants such as motor oils, sand, salt and other foreign materials from
being carried directly into the nearest natural stream, lake or other public or
private waters;
      (5)   Regulate the alteration of wetland systems to prevent excessive
sediment pollution, increased and rapid water runoff, excessive nutrient runoff
pollution and to maintain the aesthetic appearance of the wetlands; and
      (6)   Prevent the development of structures in areas which will adversely
affect the public passage and use of creeks, marshes, low lands and water
courses within the city.
   (B)   District application.
      (1)   The W Wetland Systems District shall be applied to and superimposed
upon the Agricultural-Open Space, Residential, Business or Industrial Districts
contained herein existing or amended by the text and map of this chapter. The
regulations and requirements imposed by the Wetland Systems District shall be
in addition to flood plain and shoreland and those established for the district
which jointly apply. Under the joint application of districts, the more
restrictive requirements shall apply.
      (2)   The Wetland Systems District within the City of Slayton is defined
and established to include those areas which include any water course, natural
drainage system, water body or wetlands that may be subject to periodic
flooding, overflow or seasonally high water tables. The district boundary lines
shall be established upon geographical, hydrological and surficial geological
data obtained from the United States Department of Agriculture Soil
Conservation Service and Soil Survey, Murray County, Minnesota. The Wetland
Systems areas are composed of soils groups 8, 9, 10 and 11 as defined by the
U.S.D.A. Soils Conservation Service. These specific soils groups are
characterized as unsuitable for development due to their poor drainage
qualities, flooding proneness, poor texture, high water table depth and general
organic content.
   (C)   Permitted uses. The following operations and uses are permitted in the
Wetland Systems District as a matter of right, subject to any other applicable
code, ordinance or law:
      (1)   Grazing, farming, (excluding animal feedlots) nurseries, gardening
and harvesting of crops;
      (2)   Sustained forestry and tree farms;
      (3)   Conservation of soil, vegetation, water, fish and wildlife;
      (4)   Scientific research and educational activities that teach
principles of ecology and conservation;
      (5)   Leisure activities such as hiking, nature studies, canoeing,
boating, camping water-skiing, skin-diving, horseback riding, field trails and
general outdoor recreation including play and sporting areas that are not
consistent with the intent of this chapter; and
      (6)   Essential services.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. Except as may hereinafter be conditionally permitted,
it shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Place, deposit or permit to be deposited, debris, fill or any
material including structures into, within or upon any water body, water course
or wetlands flood plain or natural drainage system;
      (2)   Dig, dredge or in any other wav alter or remove any material from
water bodies, water courses, wetlands, flood plains or natural drainage system;
      (3)   Erect structures for human habitation;
      (4)   Create ponds, dam or relocate any water course, or change the
natural drainage system;
      (5)   Clear and/or cut trees or other vegetation;
      (6)   Permanently store materials;
      (7)   Erect signs; or
      (8)   Dispose of waste materials, including but not limited to sewage,
garbage, rubbish and other discarded materials.
   (E)   Development regulations.
      (1)   Land owners or developers desiring to develop land or construct any
dwelling or any other artificial obstruction on land located within a wetlands
district within the City of Slayton shall first submit a conditional use permit
application as regulated by §
152.41 below and a plan of development, hereinafter referred to as a wetland
systems impact plan, which shall set forth proposed provisions for sediment
control, water management, maintenance of landscaped features and any
additional matters intended to improve or maintain the quality of the
environment.
      (2)   This plan shall set forth proposed changes requested by the
applicant and affirmatively disclose what, if any, change will be made in the
natural condition of the earth, including loss or change of earth ground cover,
destruction of trees, grade changes and its effect, if any, upon lake, streams,
water courses and marshes, lowlands and wetlands in the area.
      (3)   The plan shall minimize tree removal, ground cover change, loss of
natural vegetation, and grade changes as much as possible, and shall
affirmatively provide for the relocation or replanting of as many trees as
possible that are proposed to be removed.
      (4)   The purpose of the wetland systems impact plan shall be to
eliminate as much as possible potential pollution, erosion and siltation.
(Prior Code, § 18.115) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.40    GENERAL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Administrating Officer. This chapter shall be administered and
enforced by the Zoning Official who shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   Duties of the Zoning Official. The Zoning Official shall enforce this
chapter through the proper legal channels and in addition therefore and in
furtherance of the authority he or she shall:
      (1)   Determine that all zoning permits comply with the terms of this
chapter;
      (2)   Issue zoning permits for any use, structure or building after
determination of above;
      (3)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including
but not limited to, all maps, amendments, conditional uses, variances, appeals
and applications therefore;
      (4)   Receive, file and forward all applications for appeals, variances,
conditional uses and other matters to the designated official bodies; and
      (5)   Notify in writing any person responsible for violating a provision
of this chapter, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary for correction.
(Prior Code, § 18.116)
§ 152.41  AMENDMENT AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Requests for amendments/rezoning or conditional use permits, as
provided within this chapter, shall be filed with the Zoning Official on an
official application form.
         (a)   The application shall be accompanied by a fee as outlined in §
152.44 below.
         (b)   This fee shall not be refunded.
         (c)   The application shall also be accompanied by 10 copies of
detailed written and graphic materials fully explaining the proposed change,
development or use and providing information as is necessary to show compliance
with this chapter, including but not limited to:
            1.   Description of site (legal description);
            2.   Site plan drawn at scale showing parcel and building
dimensions;
            3.   Location of all buildings and their square footage;
            4.   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces, off-street
loading areas and sidewalks;
            5.   Landscaping and screening plans;
            6.   Drainage plan; and
            7.   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated use per day.
         (d)   The Zoning Official shall refer the application, along with all
related information, to the City Planning Commission for consideration and a
report and recommendation to the City Council.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall hear the request at its next regular
meeting.
      (3)   The applicant or a representative thereof shall appear before the
Planning Commission in order to answer questions concerning the proposed
amendment or conditional use.
      (4)   The amendment or conditional use application may be referred to the
city staff for a report and recommendation to be presented to the Commission.
The city staff’s report and recommendations shall be given to the City Planning
Commission at the meeting at which the application is to be considered. The
report and recommendations of the city, staff are to be entered in and made
part oil the permanent written record of the Planning Commission meeting.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall consider possible adverse affects of
the proposed amendment or conditional use. Its judgment shall be based upon
(but not limited to) the following factors:
         (a)   Relationship to adopted municipal plans;
         (b)   The geographical area involved;
         (c)   Whether the use will tend to or actually depreciate the area in
which it is proposed;
         (d)   The character of the surrounding area; and
         (e)   The demonstrated need for the use.
      (6)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of
the applicant concerning operational factors, the information to be declared
necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all pertinent
sections of this chapter.
      (7)   The Planning Commission shall set a date for a public hearing.
Notice of the hearing shall be published in conformance with the state law and
individual notices, if it is a district change or conditional use permit
request, shall be mailed not less than 10 days nor more than 30 days prior to
the hearing to all owners of property, according to the Murray County
assessment records, within 350 feet of the parcel included in the request.
      (8)   Failure of the property owner to receive the notice shall not
invalidate any like proceedings as set forth within this chapter.
      (9)   The Planning Commission shall make a finding of fact and recommend
actions or conditions relating to the request, as they deem necessary, to carry
out the intent and purpose of this chapter. The recommendation shall be in
writing and accompanied by the resort and recommendation of the city staff. No
conditional use shall be recommended by the Planning Commission unless the
Commission shall find:
         (a)   That the conditional use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted;
         (b)   That the establishment of the conditional use will not impede
the normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding vacant
property for predominant uses in the area;
         (c)   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other
necessary facilities have been or are being provided;
         (d)   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide
sufficient off-street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use;
         (e)   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to prevent or
control offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise and vibration, so that none of these
will constitute a nuisance, and to control lighted signs and other lights in a
manner so that no disturbance to neighboring properties will result;
         (f)   That proper facilities are provided which would eliminate any
traffic congestion or traffic hazard which may result from the proposed use;
         (g)   The demonstrated need for the proposed use; and
         (h)   The proposed use is in compliance with the city land use plan.
      (10)   The City Council shall not grant a conditional use permit or
amendment/rezoning request until they have received a report and recommendation
from the Planning Commission and the city staff or until 60 days after the
first regular Planning Commission meeting at which the request was considered.
      (11)   (a)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and the city staff, the City Council shall place the report and
recommendation on the agenda for the next regular meeting.
         (b)   The reports and recommendation shall be entered in and made part
of the permanent written record of the City Council meeting.
      (12)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and the city staff, the City Council shall have the option to set
and hold a public hearing if deemed necessary and shall make a recorded finding
of fact and shall impose any condition it considers necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare.
      (13)   Approval of a request shall require passage by a 4/5 vote of the
full City Council.
      (14)   The Zoning Official shall notify the applicant of the Council’s
decision in writing.
   (B)   Amendments; initiation.
      (1)   The City Council or Planning Commission may, upon their own motion
initiate a request to amend the text or the district boundaries of this
chapter.
      (2)   Any person, owning real estate within the city may initiate a
request to amend the district boundaries or text of this chapter so as to
affect the real estate.
   (C)   Conditional use permit.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   The purpose of a conditional use permit is to provide the City
of Slayton with a reasonable degree of discretion in determining the
suitability of certain designated uses upon the general welfare, public health
and safety.
         (b)   In making this determination, whether or not the conditional use
is to be allowed, the city may consider the nature of the adjoining land or
buildings, whether or not a similar use is already in existence and located on
the same premises or on other lands immediately close by, the effect upon
traffic into and from the premises, or on any adjoining roads, and all other or
further factors as the city shall deem a prerequisite of consideration in
determining the effect of the use on the general welfare, public health and
safety.
      (2)   Reconsideration. Whenever an application for a conditional use
permit has been considered and denied by the City Council, a similar
application for a conditional use permit affecting substantially the same
property shall not be considered again by the Planning Commission or City
Council for a least 6 months from the date of its denial; and a subsequent
application affecting substantially the same property shall likewise not be
considered again by the Planning Commission or City Council for an additional 6
months from the date of the second denial unless a decision to reconsider the
matter is made by not less than 4/5 vote of the full City Council.
      (3)   Lapse of conditional use permit by non-use.
         (a)   Whenever within 1 year after granting a conditional use permit,
the work as permitted by the permit shall not have commenced, then the permit
shall become null and void unless a petition for extension of time in which to
complete the work has been granted by the City Council.
         (b)   The extension shall be requested in writing and filed with the
City Clerk/Administrator at least 30 days before the expiration of the original
conditional use permit. There shall be no charge for the filing of the
petition.
         (c)   The request for extension shall state facts showing a good faith
attempt to complete the work permitted in the conditional use permit. The
petition shall be presented to the Planning Commission for a recommendation and
to the City Council for a decision.
      (4)   Performance bond. The City Council may require a performance bond
where appropriate.
         (a)   Except in the case of non-income producing residential property,
upon approval of a conditional use permit the city shall be provided with a
surety, bond, cash escrow, certificate of deposit, securities, or cash deposit
prior to the issuing of building permits or initiation of work on the proposed
improvements or development. The security shall guarantee conformance and
compliance with the conditions of the conditional use permit and the code book
of the city.
         (b)   The security shall be in the amount of the Zoning Official’s
estimated costs of labor and materials for the proposed improvements of
development. The project can be handled in stages upon the discretion of the
Zoning Official.
         (c)   The city shall hold the security until completion of the
proposed improvements or development and a certificate of occupancy indicating
compliance with the conditional use permit and ordinances of the city has been
issued by the Zoning Official.
         (d)   Failure to comply with the conditions of the conditional use
permit and/or the ordinances of the city shall result in forfeiture of the
security.
      (5)   Compliance. Any use permitted under the terms of conditional use
permit shall be established and conducted in conformity to the terms of the
permits and of any conditions designated in connection therewith.
      (6)   Recording. A certified copy of any conditional use permit shall be
filed with the Murray County Recorder. The conditional use permit shall include
the legal description of the property involved.
   (D)   Amendments/rezoning.
      (1)   Adoption. If a request for an amendment or zone change is approved
by the City Council, the City Attorney shall then prepare a proper resolution
to be adopted by the Council in the same manner as other governmental action.
Following adoption, the Zoning Official shall make the appropriate map and/or
text change.
      (2)   Reconsideration. If the request for an amendment is denied, no
petition for the same amendment shall be considered for at least 6 months.
      (3)   Appeal of decision. The decision of the City Council shall not be
final. Any person having an interest affected by the decision of the Council
shall have the right to appeal to the District Court within 90 days of the date
of the Council action.
(Prior Code, § 18.117)
§ 152.42  VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   A Board of Adjustment, hereinafter referred to as the Board, is hereby
established. The City Planning Commission shall act as the Board. The members
of the Board shall serve without compensation, except that they shall be paid
for necessary expenses in the conduct of the business of the Board.
   (B)   All reports and recommendations to the Board of Adjustment from the
city staff shall be entered in and made part of the permanent written record of
the Board’s meeting.
   (C)   (1)   In considering all requests for a variance or appeal, and in
taking subsequent action, the Board of Adjustment shall make a finding of fact
that the proposed action will not:
         (a)   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property;
         (b)   Unreasonably increase the congestion in the public street;
         (c)   Increase the damage of fire or endanger the public safety; or
         (d)   Unreasonably diminish or impair established property values
within the neighborhood, or in any way be contrary to the intent of this
chapter.
      (2)   No variance from the terms of the Zoning Code shall be authorized
unless all of the following facts and conditions are considered.
         (a)   Exceptional circumstances. That there are exceptional or
extraordinary circumstances or conditions applying to the property in question
or to the intended use of property, that do not apply generally to other
properties or classes of uses in the same zoning district.
         (b)   Natural causes. That the alleged difficulty or hardship has not
resulted from the actions of the applicant.
         (c)   Preservation of property rights. That the variance is necessary
for the preservation and enjoyment by the owner of the property in question of
similar and substantial property rights possessed by the owners of other
properties in the same zoning, district and in the same vicinity.
         (d)   Absence of detriment. That the authorization of the variance
will not be of substantial detriment to adjacent property and will be in
keeping with the spirit and intent of the Zoning Code and the public interest.
         (e)   General nature. That the condition, situation or intended use of
the subject property, is not so general or recurrent in nature as to make it
reasonably practicable to formulate a general regulation to cover those cases.
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall, after receiving the reports and
recommendations of the city staff, make a finding of fact and decide upon
requests for a variance by approving or denying the same, in part or in whole,
where it is alleged by the applicant that a non-economic hardship in the
reasonable use of a specific parcel of property exists.
      (2)   A hardship may exist whereby some reason of narrowness, shallowness
or shape of a specific parcel of property or a lot existing and of record upon
the effective date of this chapter or that by reason of exceptional topographic
or water conditions of a specific parcel of land or lot, the strict application
of the terms of this chapter would result in exceptional difficulties when
utilizing the parcel or lot in a manner customary and legally permissible
within the district in which the lot or parcel is located.
      (3)   Should the Board find that the conditions outlined here to fore
apply to the proposed lot or parcel, the Board may grant a variance from the
strict application of this chapter so as to relieve the difficulties or
hardships to the degree considered reasonable, provided the relief may be
granted without impairing the intent of this chapter.
   (E)   Appeals to the Board shall be filed with the Zoning Official, who
shall thereupon notify the Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment. However, the
appeal shall be filed no later than 60 days after the applicant has received a
written notice from the Zoning Official or the appeal shall be considered void.
   (F)   Procedures:
      (1)   Requests for variance or appeal shall be filed with the Zoning
Official. The application shall be accompanied by a fee as outlined in §
152.44 below. This fee shall not be refunded. The application shall also be
accompanied by 10 copies of detailed written and graphic materials necessary
for the explanation of the request;
      (2)   Upon receiving the application, the Zoning Official shall refer the
application, along with all related information, to the Board of Adjustment;
      (3)   The Board shall consider the variance or appeal at its next regular
meeting;
      (4)   The request may be referred to the city staff for a report and
recommendation to be presented to the Board. The recommendation of the city
staff is to be entered in and made part of the permanent written record of the
Board meeting;
      (5)   The Board shall hold a public hearing at the next meeting following
the regular meeting at which the request was first considered and upon receipt
of the city staff’s report and recommendation shall make a finding of fact and
decide to recommend approval or denial of the request. The Board shall reach a
decision within 60 days after the first regular meeting at which the variance
or appeal request was considered;
      (6)   The Board shall hear the persons as wish to be heard, either in
person or by agent or attorney. Notice of any hearing shall be mailed not less
than 10 days before request, to all owners of property according to the Murray
County Assessment records within 350 feet of the property to which the variance
relates;
      (7)   Failure of a property owner to receive the notice shall not
invalidate any proceedings as set forth within this chapter;
      (8)   A variance of this chapter or grant of an appeal shall be by
majority vote of the Board of Adjustment; and
      (9)   The Zoning Official shall notify the originator of the variance
request or appeal of the Board of Adjustment’s decision in writing.
   (G)   Whenever within 1 year after granting a variance or appeal the work as
permitted by the variance or appeal shall not have commenced, then the variance
or appeal shall become null and void.
   (H)   The City Council may require a performance bond where appropriate:
      (1)   Except in the case on non-income producing residential property,
upon approval of a variance or appeal the city shall be provided with a surety
bond, cash escrow, certificate of deposit, securities or cash deposit prior to
the issuing of building permits or initiation of work on the proposed
improvements or development. The security shall guarantee conformance and
compliance with the conditions of the variance of appeal and the ordinances of
the city;
      (2)   The security shall be in the amount of the Zoning Official’s
estimated costs of labor and materials for the proposed improvements of
development;
      (3)   The city shall hold the security until completion of the proposed
improvements or development and certificate of occupancy indicating compliance
with the variance or appeal and ordinances of the city has been issued by the
Zoning Official; and
      (4)   Failure to comply with the conditions of the variance or appeal
and/or ordinances of the city shall result in forfeiture of the security.
   (I)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall always act with due consideration
to: promoting the public health safety, convenience and welfare, assure that
the proposal is consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter, ensure
a density of land use no higher than otherwise required in this chapter for the
zoning district the premises lie within, assure that it will not impede the
orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses
predominant in the area and assure that the location and character of the
proposed development is consistent with the desirable pattern of development
for the locality in general and the zoning district in particular.
         (a)   Variances shall only be permitted:
            1.   When they are in harmony with the general purposes and intent
of the ordinance and;
            2.   When the variances are consistent with the comprehensive plan.
         (b)   Variances may be granted when the applicant for the variance
establishes that there are practical difficulties in complying with the zoning
ordinance.
      (2)   In addition, the following interpretation of practical difficulties
shall be used in determination of appeals and adjustment. Practical
difficulties, as used in connection with the granting of a variance, means
that:
         (a)   The property owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable
manner not permitted by the zoning ordinance;
         (b)   The plight of the landowner is due to the circumstances unique
to the property not created by the landowner; and
         (c)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
      (3)   Economic considerations alone shall not constitute practical
difficulties.
      (4)   Practical difficulties include, but are not limited to inadequate
access to direct sunlight for solar energy.
      (5)   Interim uses shall be granted for earth-sheltered construction as
defined when in harmony with the ordinance. The Board of Adjustment may not
permit as an interim use any use that is not permitted under the chapter for
property in the zone where the affected person’s land is located.
      (6)   The Board may permit as an interim use the temporary (not to exceed
6 months, except with granting of extension) use of a 1-family dwelling as a 2-
family dwelling. The Board may impose conditions in the granting of the interim
use to ensure compliance and to protect adjacent properties.
      (7)   The Board may impose conditions in the granting of variances. A
condition must be directly related to and must bear a reasonable
proportionality to the impact created by the variance.
   (J)   (1)   The decision of the Board of Adjustment shall not be final. Any
person having an interest affected by this chapter or any decision made
relating to it shall have the right to appeal to the Slayton City Council
within 90 days of when the decision of the Board of Adjustment is filed with
the Zoning Official.
      (2)   The decision of the City Council shall not be final. Any person
having an interest affected by this chapter or any decision relating to it
shall have the right of appeal to the District Court on questions of law and
fact within 90 days of the date of the Council action.
(Prior Code, § 18.118) (Am. Ord. 340, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 152.43  PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment of the Planning Commission. A City Planning Commission
for the City of Slayton is hereby established.
   (B)   Composition.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of 7 members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of a majority of the Slayton City
Council.
      (2)   The Deputy Clerk, Zoning Official and City Attorney shall serve as
ex-officio members.
      (3)   Each member of the Planning Commission shall be appointed for a
term of 1 year or until his or her successor shall take office.
      (4)   During the first City Council meeting in January of each year
hereafter, or as soon thereafter as the City Council shall meet, the City
Council of Slayton shall make appointments for 1 year terms of office to
reappoint or replace members whose terms have expired.
      (5)   At any time, the Mayor or City Council may appoint members to serve
for the unexpired term of office.
      (6)   Unexcused absence from 3 consecutive regular meetings of the
Planning Commission shall constitute grounds for dismissal of the member by
order of the Chairperson of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Organization.
      (1)   The officers of the Planning Commission shall be elected by the
members of the Planning Commission at the first regular Commission meeting of
each year.
      (2)   Notice of a meeting for the election of officers shall be given the
members of the Planning Commission at least 7 days prior to the meeting and
election.
      (3)   The officers shall consist of a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and
other offices as the Commission may create.
      (4)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall serve as the Secretary of the
Commission.
      (5)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings and hearings of the
Planning Commission and shall have the duties normally offered by parliamentary
usage of the officers, as well as any other duties specified within this
chapter.
      (6)   The Vice-Chairperson shall act for the Chairperson in his or her
absence.
      (7)   Members of the Planning Commission in attendance may choose a
Chairperson for the meeting or hearing if the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson
are both absent.
      (8)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall preside for the election.
      (9)   Nominations for officers shall be made from the floor. Each nominee
for office who receives a majority of votes cast shall be declared elected and
shall serve until the following January election or until his or her successor
shall take office.
      (10)   Vacancies in offices of the Planning Commission shall be filled
immediately by the same procedures.
   (D)   Meetings and procedure.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall schedule not less than 1 regular
meeting in each calendar month on a regular schedule.
      (2)   Meetings shall be held as deemed necessary by the Chairperson of
the Planning Commission and/or Zoning Official.
      (3)   Special meetings maybe held as provided for herein.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall set the meeting times for all regular
meetings.
      (5)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson on 3-days’
written notice mailed to each member.
      (6)   A quorum for any meeting or hearing of the Planning Commission
shall be a majority of the appointed members of the Planning Commission.
      (7)   All meetings of the Slayton Planning Commission shall be held in
the Slayton City Hall, and shall be open to the public.
      (8)   The Planning Commission may set rules and procedures as are
necessary for the orderly conduct of its business and shall keep record of its
resolutions, transactions and findings, which record shall be a public record.
      (9)   Rules and procedures not otherwise adopted or not covered by
applicable law shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order, and revised as may
be necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Compensation and expenses. The members of the Planning Commission may
receive compensation for per diem and expenses as may be allowed by the Slayton
City Council.
   (F)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall be the planning
agency and shall have the powers and duties as allowed by M.S. §§ 462.351 to
462.364, as they may be amended from time to time, and as allowed by ordinance
of the City of Slayton including the specific duties as stated in this chapter.
   (G)   Recording Secretary. All testimony at any hearing held by the Planning
Commission shall be recorded or transcribed by the Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 18.119)
§ 152.44    FEES.
   (A)   To defray administrative costs of processing of applications for
zoning permits a base fee as set out in §
33.15 per application shall be paid by all applicants at the time the
application is submitted and is not refundable unless the application is
withdrawn before the processing of the application has begun.
   (B)   To defray administrative costs of processing of requests for
conditional uses, amendments, variances or appeals a base fee as set out in §
33.15 per application shall be paid by all applicants. Fees shall be payable at
the time applications are filed with the Zoning Official and are not refundable
unless application is withdrawn prior to referral to the Planning Commission.
   (C)   In order to defray the additional cost of processing applications
(zoning, amendment, conditional use, variance, appeal) for developments, all
applicants shall pay the total costs of staff and/or consulting time spent
exclusively in producing materials for the applicant’s request, and all
materials for the request.
      (1)   MATERIALS shall include, but not be limited to, maps, graphs,
charts, drawings and the like and all printing or reproduction of same.
      (2)   STAFF AND/OR CONSULTING TIME shall include any time spent in either
researching for or actual production of materials.
      (3)   The hourly rate for staff and/or consulting time shall be
established and made available to the applicant by the City Clerk/Administrator
prior to production of any materials and the applicant shall be given a
reasonable estimate of project time and/or materials costs.
      (4)   A deposit to cover staff or consulting time and special materials
will be established and required by the Zoning Official at the time the base
fee is paid.
(Prior Code, § 18.121)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ANNEXATIONS; REAL ESTATE
   
II.   FRANCHISES
   
III.   MORATORIUMS
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS; REAL ESTATE
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexes a tract of land commencing at a point at the
29       4-2-1951    northeast corner of the tract, due south along the east
                     line a distance of 320 feet, then at right angles due west
                     420 feet
                     Leases real estate starting at the intersection of Maple
101      5-7-1962    Avenue and Front Street a point in the exact center of
                     Maple Avenue, the point being in direct line with the
                     north curb of Front Street
                     Annexes a tract of land in the south half of the north
                     half of the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of
104      1-10-1963   Section 16; a tract of land in the southeast quarter of
                     Section 16; and a tract of land in the southeast quarter
                     of Section 16, beginning at a point on the east line
                     Sale of real estate located in the northwest quarter of
105      6-3-1963    Section 10, commencing at the northeast corner of the
                     northwest quarter of Section 10
                     Leases land beginning at a point on the west right-of-way
106      7-1-1963    line of Trunk Highway 59, 641 feet south of the north line
                     of Section 10
134      11-4-1975   Annexes a tract of land in the northeast quarter of the
                     northeast quarter of Section 16
                     Annexes a tract of land in the east half of the northeast
135      11-4-1975   quarter of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter
                     of Section 16, beginning at the east quarter of that
                     section
                     Annexes a tract of land east 110 feet of lot 6 of Sampson
140      5-3-1976    and French Subdivision of the south half of the southwest
                     quarter of Section 10; and a tract of land beginning at
                     the southwest corner of lot 5
                     Annexes land east 681 feet of the south half of the north
161      9-18-1978   half of the southeast of the northeast quarter of Section
                     16
                     Annexes block 1, north side addition; the parcel contains
164      12-14-1978  3.3 acres more or less, and subject to existing easements
                     of record
                     Annexes block 1, Lot 1 Murray Industries Second Addition;
173      5-19-1980   the parcel contains 2.29 acres more or less, and is
                     subject to existing easements of record
                     Annexes lot 37 and the northwest quarter of Section 10,
180      10-6-1980   except 2 parcels, commencing at the north quarter and
                     beginning at a point on the west right-of-way line of
                     United States Trunk Highway 59
                     Annexes lots 32, 33, 34, 35 and 36, commencing at the
181      10-20-1980  south quarter corner then south 89 degrees 28 minutes 33
                     second east
                     Annexes land commencing at the southeast corner of Section
183      4-2-1981    10, along the south line of the section, a distance of 571
                     feet
204      11-7-1983   Annexes all that part of the northwest quarter of the
                     southeast quarter of Section 10
                     Annexes a tract of land in the northwest quarter of
205      11-7-1983   Section 10, beginning at a point on the west right-of-way
                     line of Trunk Highway 59
                     Annexes the east 781 feet, except the 681 feet and south
211      7-2-1984    100.4 feet of the south half of the north half of the
                     southeast quarter of the northeast quarter
224      9-6-1988    Annexes 4 parcels of land, all 4 commencing at the
                     southeast corner of Section 9
                     Annexes a tract of land in lot 2 of the southwest quarter
247      11-2-1992   of the southeast quarter and lot 2 of the southeast
                     quarter of the southwest quarter in Section 9
249      4-18-1994   Annexes all the part of the northeast quarter of the
                     southwest quarter of Section 10
                     Annexes a tract of land in the northeast quarter of the
                     southeast quarter of Section 16; a tract of land in the
251      10-17-1994  northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 16;
                     and the east 400 feet of the southeast quarter of Section
                     16
269      11-3-1997   Annexes lot 1 and all that part of lot 2, commencing at
                     the north quarter corner of Section 22
                     Annexes all that part of lot 2, commencing at the
270      11-3-1997   northwest corner of Section 22, then north 90 degrees 00
                     minutes west along the north line of the northwest quarter
                     of Section 22
271      11-3-1997   Annexes all that part of lot 2, beginning on the south
                     line of Section 9 at a distance of 2,076.70 feet
                     Annexes the south half of the south half of the northeast
278      1-19-1999   quarter of Section 16, township 106N, range 41, containing
                     10 acres, more of less
282      3-20-2000   Annexes a parcel of land in the southeast quarter of
                     Section 9, beginning at the southwest corner of lot 1
                     Annexes a tract of land in the north half of the northeast
286      5-15-2000   quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 16, commencing
                     at a point on the south boundary of the right-of-way of
                     Minnesota Trunk Highway 47
                     Annexes a tract of land in the northeast quarter of
289      5-5-2001    Section 22, beginning at the northwest corner of the
                     northeast quarter of Section 22
                     Annexes the south half of the south half of the northeast
298      11-18-2002  quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 16, township
                     106N, range 41, containing 10 acres, more or less
309      10-17-2005  Annexes the east 150 feet of the northeast quarter of the
                     northeast quarter of Section 16
313      7-17-2006   Annexes that part of the north half of the southeast
                     quarter of Section 10
314      7-17-2006   Annexes a parcel of land in the southeast quarter of
                     Section 9
316      7-2-2007    Annexes land consisting of unplatted land not exceeding
                     200 acres in area
 
TABLE II:  FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
226  1-17-  Grants a franchise to Nobles Cooperative Electric to construct, repair and
     1989   maintain an electric distribution system and transmission lines
249A 4-19-  Grants a franchise to Gorhams’ Inc, dba Northwest Natural Gas Company, for a
     1993   period of 25 years, to erect and maintain a gas distribution system
279  3-23-  Cable television franchise to Dakota Telecom, Inc.
     1999
301A 7-7-   Grants a franchise to Prairiewave Communications, Inc., to operate and
     2003   maintain a cable television system in the city
302  9-15-  Grants a franchise to Mediacom Minnesota LLC to operate and maintain a cable
     2003   television system in the city
337  6-13-  Grants a franchise to Clarity Telecom, LLC to operate and maintain a cable
     2016   television system in the city
 
TABLE III:  MORATORIUMS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Prohibits the operation of sexually-oriented businesses
295      3-18-2002   and adult entertainment, and also the operation of pawn
                     shops
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Reference Code Section
M.S. Reference         Code Section
Ch. 13                 35.01;
                       114.01
12.25                  32.01;
                       32.04
12.31                  32.06
13D et seq.            95.15
13D.01                 30.04;
                       30.05
14.57–14.69          110.25
16B.72                 150.26
16B.73                 150.25;
                       150.26
18G.16                 93.02
34.54                  90.12
84.81–84.88          73.04
84.872                 73.06
84.91                  73.07
134.09 Subd. 1         31.20
144.391                110.40
152.01–152.21        112.01
161.242                95.30
168.011 Subd. 12       71.51
168.011 Subd. 14       71.51
168.10                 95.30
Ch. 168B               95.30
168B.04 Subd. 2        95.30
168B.09 Subd. 2        95.30
168B.011 Subd. 3       95.07
                       Ch. 10, App. I;
                       73.04;
Ch. 169                74.08;
                       74.14;
                       74.15
169.01 Subd. 40(a)     74.01
169.011                95.30
169.045                74.13
169.045 Subd. 7        74.14
169.14                 33.15
169.30                 33.15
169.46                 33.15
169.47                 33.15
169.48                 33.15
169.49                 33.15
169.50                 33.15
169.51                 33.15
169.52                 33.15
169.53                 33.15
169.55                 33.15
169.56                 33.15
169.57                 33.15
169.58                 33.15
169.59                 33.15
169.60                 33.15
169.61                 33.15
169.62                 33.15
169.63                 33.15
169.64                 33.15
169.65                 33.15
169.66                 33.15
169.67                 33.15
169.68                 33.15
169.69                 33.15
                       33.15;
169.70                 74.03;
                       74.15
169.71                 33.15
169.72                 33.15
169.73                 33.15
169.74                 33.15
169.75                 33.15
169.222                75.18
169.469                33.15
169.467                33.15
169.471                33.15
169.475                33.15
169.522                33.15
169.541                33.15
169.693                33.15
169.721                33.15
169.722                33.15
169.723                33.15
169.724                33.15
169.725                33.15
169.726                33.15
169.727                33.15
169.733                33.15
169.734                33.15
169.743                33.15
169.999                70.99
169.999, Subd. 1(b)(1) 70.99
169.999 Subd. 1(b)(2)  70.99
169.999 Subd. 1(b)(3)  70.99
169.999 Subd. 5        70.99
171.01                 Ch. 10, App. I
171.02                 Ch. 10, App. I
171.03                 Ch. 10, App. I
171.22                 Ch. 10, App. I
171.23                 Ch. 10, App. I
171.24                 Ch. 10, App. I
176.011                30.06
201                    30.56
327.31–327.35        150.01
329                    113.03
340A                   110.16
340A.101 et seq.       110.01
340A.101 Subd. 10      110.22
340A.404               110.18
340A.404 Subd. 5       110.17
340A.414               110.24
340A.801               110.18
347.50                 90.06
347.51                 90.12
347.151                90.12
                       111.01;
349                    111.02;
                       111.15
349.11–349.21        111.99
349.11–349.23        111.06;
                       111.07
349.12                 111.04
349.12 Subd. 25        111.13
349.16                 111.13
349.166                111.09
349.213                111.02
364.03, Subd. 2        35.01;
                       114.01
364.06                 35.01;
                       114.01
366.011                34.01
366.012                34.01
412.191, Subd. 2       30.04
415.01                 34.01
415.11                 30.02
429.061                95.10
                       92.002;
429.101                92.028;
                       95.02;
                       95.10
                       31.04;
462.351–462.364      152.01;
                       152.43
462.357, Subd. 3       31.05
462.358, Subd. 2(b)    151.06
462.3593               152.05
462.3593, Subd. 9      152.05
471.57                 150.27
515.01–515.19        152.02
561.01                 95.01
609.23–609.365       112.01
609.75–609.763       111.06;
                       111.99
617.23–617.296       112.01
626.862                10.20
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2007 Code
Prior Code            2007 Code
2.101                 30.01
2.103                 30.03
2.104                 30.04
2.105                 30.05
2.106                 30.06
2.201                 30.20
2.202                 30.21
2.301                 30.35
2.302                 30.36
2.303                 30.37
2.304                 30.38
2.305                 30.39
2.306                 30.40
2.401                 31.01
2.402                 31.02
2.403                 31.03
2.404                 31.04
2.405                 31.05;
                      31.06
2.701                 31.20
2.702                 31.21
2.703                 31.22
2.704                 31.23
2.705                 31.24
3.101                 30.55
3.102                 30.56
4.101                 110.01
4.102                 110.02
4.103                 110.03
4.201                 110.15
4.301                 110.16
4.302                 110.17
4.303                 110.18
4.304                 110.19
4.305                 110.20
4.306                 110.21
4.307                 110.22
4.308                 110.23
4.309                 110.24
4.310                 110.25
4.401                 110.40
4.402                 110.41
4.403                 110.42
4.404                 110.43
4.405                 110.44
4.406                 110.45
4.407                 110.46
4.408                 110.47
4.409                 110.48
4.410                 110.49
4.411                 110.50
4.412                 110.51
4.414                 110.52
5.301                 111.40
5.302                 111.41
5.303                 111.42
7.101                 150.01
7.102                 150.02
7.103                 150.03
7.104                 150.04
7.201                 150.15
7.301                 150.25;
                      150.27
7.302                 150.26
8.101                 91.01
8.102                 91.02
8.103                 91.03
8.104                 91.04
8.105                 91.05
8.106                 91.06
8.107                 91.07
8.108                 91.08
8.109                 91.09
8.110                 91.10
8.111                 91.11
8.112                 91.12
8.113                 91.13
8.114                 91.14
8.115                 91.15
8.201                 91.30
8.301                 91.45
8.302                 91.46
9.202                 130.01
9.203                 130.02
10.201                130.03
10.401                132.01
10.402                132.02
10.403                132.03
10.404                132.04
10.405                132.05
10.406                132.06
10.407                132.07
10.408                132.08
10.409                132.09
10.410                132.10
10.501                130.04
10.601                130.05
11.101                50.01
11.102                50.02
11.103                50.03
11.104                50.04
11.201                50.15
11.202                50.16
11.301                95.30
11.302                95.31
11.303                95.32
11.304                95.33
12.101                92.001
12.102                92.002
12.103                92.003
12.104                92.004
12.105                92.005
12.106                92.006
12.201                92.020
12.202                92.021
12.203                92.022
12.204                92.023
12.205                92.024
12.206                92.025
12.207                92.026
12.208                92.027
12.209                92.028
12.301                92.040
12.302                92.041
12.303                92.042
12.401                92.055
12.402                92.056
12.403                92.057
12.404                92.058
12.405                92.059
12.406                92.060
12.407                92.061
12.501                92.075
12.502                92.075
12.503                92.076
12.504                92.077
14.101                70.01
14.102                70.02
14.103                70.03
14.104                75.19;
                      Ch. 76, Sch. I
14.105                70.04
14.106                70.05
14.201                70.06
14.202                70.07
14.203                71.15
14.204                71.16
14.205                71.17
14.206                71.18
14.301                71.01
14.302                71.02
14.302(4)             Ch. 77, Sch. I
14.302(5)             Ch. 77, Sch. II
                      71.03;
14.303                Ch. 77, Sch. I;
                      Ch. 77, Sch. II
14.401                71.30
14.402                71.31
14.403                71.32
14.404                71.33
14.405                71.34
14.406                71.35
14.501                72.01
14.502                72.02
14.503                72.03
14.504                72.04
14.505                72.05
14.506                72.06
14.507                72.07
14.508                72.08
14.601                72.20
14.701                73.01
14.702                73.02
14.703                73.03
14.704                73.04
14.705                73.05
14.706                73.06
14.707                73.07
14.708                73.08
14.709                73.09
14.710                73.10
14.711                73.11
14.712                73.12
14.901                75.01
14.902                75.02
14.903                75.03
14.904                75.04
14.1001               70.20
14.1002               75.19;
                      Ch. 76, Sch. II
14.1003               70.21
14.1201               75.15
14.1202               75.16
14.1203               75.17
14.1204               75.18
14.1205               75.19
15.101                51.01
15.102                51.02
15.103                51.03
15.104                51.04
15.105                51.05
15.106                51.06
15.107                51.07
15.108                51.08
15.109                51.09
15.110                51.10
15.111                51.11
15.112                51.12
15.113                51.13
15.114                51.14
15.115                51.15
15.201                51.30
15.202                51.31
15.203                51.32
15.301                51.33
16.101                93.01
16.102                93.02
16.103                93.03
16.104                93.04
16.105                93.05
16.106                93.06
16.107                93.07
16.108                93.08
16.109                93.09
16.110                93.10
16.111                93.11
17.101                94.01
17.102                94.02
17.103                94.03
17.104                94.04
17.105                94.05
17.106                94.06
18.101                152.01
18.102                152.02
18.103                152.03
18.104                152.04
18.105                152.15
18.106                152.16
18.107                152.17
18.108                152.18
18.109                152.19
18.110                152.20
18.111                152.21
18.112                152.22
18.113                152.23
18.114                152.24
18.115                152.25
18.116                152.40
18.117                152.41
18.118                152.42
18.119                152.43
18.121                152.44
19.101                151.01;
                      151.11
19.102                151.02
19.103                151.03
19.104                151.04
19.105                151.05
19.106                151.06
19.107                151.07
19.108                151.08
19.109                151.09
19.110                151.10
19 Appendix B-206 § 233.01
19 Appendix B-206 § 333.02
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
12-21-09 12-21-2009  70.99
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
29       4-2-1951    TSO I
101      5-7-1962    TSO I
104      1-10-1963   TSO I
105      6-3-1963    TSO I
106      7-1-1963    TSO I
134      11-4-1975   TSO I
135      11-4-1975   TSO I
140      5-3-1976    TSO I
161      9-18-1978   TSO I
164      12-14-1978  TSO I
173      5-19-1980   TSO I
180      10-6-1980   TSO I
181      10-20-1980  TSO I
183      4-2-1981    TSO I
204      11-7-1983   TSO I
205      11-7-1983   TSO I
211      7-2-1984    TSO I
224      9-6-1988    TSO I
226      1-17-1989   TSO II
247      11-2-1992   TSO I
249A     4-19-1993   TSO II
249      4-18-1994   TSO I
251      10-17-1994  TSO I
269      11-3-1997   TSO I
270      11-3-1997   TSO I
271      11-3-1997   TSO I
278      1-19-1999   TSO I
279      3-23-1999   TSO II
282      3-20-2000   TSO I
286      5-15-2000   TSO I
289      5-5-2001    TSO I
                     95.01–
                     95.04,
290      7-2-2001    95.07,
                     95.09,
                     95.10
294      1-22-2002   71.50-
                     71.54
295      3-18-2002   TSO III
298      11-18-2002  TSO I
299      12-16-2002  112.01-
                     112.08
300      12-16-2002  112.20-
                     112.29
301A     7-7-2003    TSO II
302      9-15-2003   TSO II
305      4-18-2005   51.45-
                     51.52
308      8-1-2005    74.01-
                     74.16
309      10-17-2005  TSO I
310      12-19-2005  33.15
311      12-19-2005  51.53
313      7-17-2006   TSO I
314      7-17-2006   TSO I
315      5-21-2007   34.01
316      7-2-2007    TSO I
317      11-5-2007   33.15
318      4-7-2008    Adopting Ordinance
320      2-2-2009    90.06
321      2-18-2009   51.33
322      6-1-2009    51.31
323      8-17-2009   91.30
324      12-7-2009   31.35–
                     31.44
325      11-16-2009  114.01
326      11-16-2009  35.01
327      12-21-2009  10.98
328      12-21-2009  33.15
329      2-17-2010   Adopting Ordinance
                     95.01–
                     95.04,
330      4-5-2010    95.06–
                     95.10,
                     95.30,
                     95.31
331      12-20-2010  33.15
332      2-7-2011    51.31
                     74.01–
333      7-6-2011    74.16,
                     74.99
334      5-4-2015    33.15
335      6-15-2015   90.04,
                     90.99
                     95.01–
                     95.22,
336      6-6-2016    95.30–
                     95.33,
                     95.99
337      6-13-2016   TSO II
338      7-18-2016   152.05
339      10-16-2017  90.02
                     152.16-
340      8-19-2019   152.18,
                     152.42
341      12-16-2019  152.03
                     71.15,
342      1-22-2020   71.60-
                     71.63,
                     71.99
343      2-19-2020   33.15
                    
 
