CITY CODE
OF
SLEEPY EYE, MN
Code current through:
Ord. 193, passed 10-12-2021
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Sleepy Eye, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 193, passed October 12, 2021. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 36, 2ND SERIES
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY CODE OF SLEEPY EYE, MINNESOTA
The City of Sleepy Eye does ordain:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Sleepy Eye, Minnesota, containing the compilation of all
ordinances of a general nature together with the changes made to said
ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the City, shall be
accepted in all courts without question as the Official Code and Law of the
City as enacted by the City Council of the City of Sleepy Eye.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general and permanent nature
amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions of the Official City Code is
identified by the proper catchline and is inserted in the proper place in the
official copy which shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk,
certified as to correctness and available for inspection at any and all times
that said office is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said Official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the City Council.
Passed by the City Council for the City of Sleepy Eye, Minnesota, on December
3, 1996.
         /s/ James J. Broich, Mayor
I hereby certify and attest that the City Council of the City of Sleepy Eye,
Minnesota, did pass the above Ordinance on December 3, 1996, in accordance with
the Charter provisions and State laws provided therefor.
Dated: December 3, 1996.
         /s/ Edwin V. Treml, City Clerk
Published in the Sleepy Eye Herald Dispatch, Sleepy Eye, Minnesota, on December
12, 1996.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-1-1: Application, Authority And Purpose
1-1-2: Word Usage; Meanings
1-1-3: Definitions
1-1-4: Reference To Public Official
1-1-5: Citation
1-1-6: Captions
1-1-7: Severability
1-1-1: APPLICATION, AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: The provisions of this chapter and chapter 2
of this title shall be applicable to all the chapters, sections, subsections,
paragraphs and provisions in this Code, and this Code shall apply to all
persons and property within the City of Sleepy Eye, and within such adjacent
area as may be stated in specific provisions. (1988 Code § 1.01)
   B.   Authority And Purpose: Pursuant to authority granted by Charter, this
title, and title 2, "Boards, Commissions And Committees", of this Code are
enacted so as to set down for enforcement the government and good order of the
City by and through the City Council. (1988 Code § 2.01)
1-1-2: WORD USAGE; MEANINGS:
As used in this Code, words of the male gender shall include the female and
neuter, and the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include
the singular. (1988 Code § 1.07)
1-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the language or context clearly indicates that a different meaning is
intended, the following words, terms and phrases, for the purpose of every
chapter, section, subsection, paragraph and provision of this Code, shall have
the following meanings and inclusions:
CITY: The City of Sleepy Eye, Minnesota, acting by or through its duly
authorized representative.
CITY CLERK: The person duly appointed by the City Council and acting in such
capacity.
CONVICTION: Either of the following accepted and recorded by the court:
   A.   A plea of guilty; or,
   B.   A verdict of guilty by a jury or a finding of guilty by the court.
COUNCIL AND CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Sleepy Eye,
Minnesota.
CRIME: Conduct which is prohibited by ordinance and for which the actor may be
sentenced to imprisonment or fine.
EX OFFICIO MEMBER: A person who is not counted for the purpose of determining a
quorum, and has no right to vote, but shall have the right and obligation
(within his discretion) to speak to any question coming before the board,
commission or other deliberative body of which he is such member.
FISCAL YEAR: The same as the calendar year, January 1 through December 31.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb line or, if no curb, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways or streets which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
MAY/SHALL: "May" is permissive, "shall" is mandatory.
MISDEMEANOR: The crime for which a sentence of not more than ninety (90) days
or a fine of not more than seven hundred dollars ($700.00), or both, may be
imposed.
ORDINANCE: An ordinance duly adopted by the City Council of Sleepy Eye,
Minnesota.
PERSON: Includes all firms, partnerships, associations, corporations and
natural persons.
PETTY MISDEMEANOR: An offense, which does not constitute a crime, and for which
a sentence of a fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) may be
imposed.
POLICE OFFICER AND PEACE OFFICER: Every officer, including special police,
authorized to direct or regulate traffic, keep the peace, and appointed or
employed for the purpose of law enforcement.
PREMISES: Any lot, piece or parcel of land within a continuous boundary whether
publicly or privately owned, occupied or possessed.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: All property not included within the definition of public
property or public place.
PUBLIC PROPERTY AND PUBLIC PLACE: Any place, property or premises dedicated to
public use, owned by the City, occupied by the City as a lessee, or occupied by
the City as a street by reason of an easement, including, but not limited to,
streets, parks or parking lots so owned or occupied.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel. In the event a street includes two (2) or more separate
roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
STREET: The entire area dedicated to public use, or contained in an easement or
other conveyance or grant to the City, and shall include, but not be limited
to, roadways, boulevards, sidewalks, alleys, and other public property between
lateral property lines in which a roadway lies.
VIOLATE: Includes failure to comply with.
WRITTEN AND IN WRITING: Any mode of representing words and letters in the
English language. (1988 Code § 1.02; amd. 1996 Code)
1-1-4: REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICIAL:
Wherever an appointed public official is referred to in this Code, the
reference shall include such public official or his designee. (1988 Code §
1.11)
1-1-5: CITATION:
This codification of the ordinances of the City of Sleepy Eye shall henceforth
be known as this Code and cited thus: "City Code, Sec.          ". (1988 Code §
1.08)
1-1-6: CAPTIONS:
A title or caption to or in any chapter, section, subsection, subparagraph or
other provision of this Code is for convenience only and shall not limit,
expand, or otherwise alter or control the content, wording or interpretation
thereof. (1988 Code § 1.10)
1-1-7: SEVERABILITY:
Every chapter, section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this Code shall
be, and is hereby declared, severable from every other such chapter, section,
subsection, paragraph or provision and if any part or portion of any of them
shall be held invalid, it shall not affect or invalidate any other chapter,
section, subsection, paragraph or provision. (1988 Code § 1.05)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-2-1: Penalty
1-2-2: Acts Or Omissions Otherwise Unlawful
1-2-3: Payment Of Fines And Penalties Into City Treasury
1-2-1: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation A Misdemeanor Or A Petty Misdemeanor:
      1.   Every person violates a chapter, section, subsection, paragraph or
provision of this Code when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as for a misdemeanor,
or as for a petty misdemeanor, except as otherwise stated in specific
provisions herein, as set forth in the specific chapter in which the section,
subsection, paragraph or provision violated appears. Upon conviction for a
crime, the actor may be convicted of either the crime charged if it is a
misdemeanor, or a petty misdemeanor as an included offense necessarily proved
if the misdemeanor charge were proved. (1988 Code § 1.03)
      2.   Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision
of this chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor
except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof. (1988 Code § 2.99)
   B.   Penalties For Each Offense: When a penalty or forfeiture is provided
for the violation of a chapter, section, subsection, paragraph or provision of
this Code, such penalty or forfeiture shall be construed to be for each such
violation. (1988 Code § 1.09)
1-2-2: ACTS OR OMISSIONS OTHERWISE UNLAWFUL:
This Code does not authorize an act or omission otherwise prohibited by law.
(1988 Code § 1.04)
1-2-3: PAYMENT OF FINES AND PENALTIES INTO CITY TREASURY:
All fines, forfeitures and penalties recovered for the violation of any
ordinance, charter, rule or regulation of the City shall be paid into the City
Treasury by the court or officer thereof receiving such monies. Payment shall
be made in the manner, at the time, and in the proportion provided by law.
(1988 Code § 1.06)
CHAPTER 3
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Official City Seal
1-3-2: Official Newspaper
1-3-1: OFFICIAL CITY SEAL:
All contracts to which the City is a party shall be sealed with the City Seal.
Said seal shall be kept in the custody of the City Clerk and affixed by him.
The official City Seal shall be a circular disc having engraved thereupon "City
of Sleepy Eye" and such other words, figures or emblems as the Council may, by
resolution, designate. (1988 Code § 2.02)
1-3-2: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
At its first meeting each year, the City Council shall designate the official
newspaper which shall be the legal newspaper for the Municipality. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-4-1: Salaries Of Mayor And City Councilpersons
1-4-1: SALARIES OF MAYOR AND CITY COUNCILPERSONS:
Salaries of the Mayor and Council are hereby fixed as follows, which amounts
are deemed reasonable:
   A.   Salaries: Pursuant to Minnesota Statute 415.11, the salary of the Mayor
is hereby fixed at $6000 per year, and the salaries of the Councilpersons are
fixed at $5000 per year.
   B.   Effective Date: The salary schedule shall take effect on January 1,
2023. (Ord. 86, 2nd Series, 12-12-2006; amd. Ord. 175, 2nd Series, 1-12-2021)
CHAPTER 5
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Personnel Rules And Regulations
1-5-2: Interim Emergency Succession
1-5-3: City Clerk, Facsimile Signature
1-5-1: PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Council may, by resolution, establish personnel rules setting forth the
rights, duties and responsibilities of employees. Such rules may from time-to-
time be amended. (1988 Code § 2.71)
1-5-2: INTERIM EMERGENCY SUCCESSION:
   A.   Purpose: Due to the existing possibility of a nuclear attack or a
natural disaster requiring a declaration of a state of emergency, it is found
urgent and necessary to ensure the continuity of duly elected and lawful
leadership of the City to provide for the continuity of the government and the
emergency interim succession of key governmental officials by providing a
method for temporary emergency appointments to their offices.
   B.   Succession To Local Offices: In the event of a nuclear attack upon the
United States or a natural disaster affecting the vicinity of the City, the
Mayor, Council and City Clerk shall be forthwith notified by any one of said
persons and by any means available to gather at the City Hall. In the event
that safety or convenience dictates, an alternative place of meeting may be
designated. Those gathered shall proceed as follows:
      1.   By majority vote of those persons present, regardless of number,
they shall elect a Chairman and Secretary to preside and keep minutes,
respectively.
      2.   They shall review and record the specific facts relating to the
nuclear attack or natural disaster and injuries to persons or damage to
property already done, or the imminence thereof.
      3.   They may, based on such facts, declare a state of emergency.
      4.   By majority vote of those persons present, regardless of number,
they shall fill all positions on the Council, (including the Office of Mayor)
of those persons upon whom notice could not be served or who are unable to be
present.
      5.   Such interim successor shall serve until such time as the duly
elected official is again available and returns to his position, or the state
of emergency has passed and a successor is designated and qualifies as required
by law, whichever shall occur first.
   C.   Duties Of Interim Emergency Council: The Interim Emergency Council
shall exercise the powers and duties of their offices, and appoint other key
government officials to serve during the emergency. (1988 Code § 2.07)
1-5-3: CITY CLERK, FACSIMILE SIGNATURE:
The City Clerk is hereby authorized to request a depository of City funds to
honor an order for payment when such instrument bears a facsimile of his
signature, and to charge the same to the account designated thereon or upon
which it is drawn, as effectively as though it were his manually written
signature. Such authority is granted only for the purpose of permitting such
officer an economy of time and effort. (1988 Code § 2.05)
CHAPTER 6
CITY DEPARTMENTS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Departments Generally
1-6-2: Police Department
1-6-3: Fire Department
1-6-4: Legal Department
1-6-1: DEPARTMENTS GENERALLY:
   A.   Appointment: All department heads and employees shall be appointed by
the Council. All appointments shall be for an indeterminate term.
   B.   Compensation: Except as otherwise provided by Charter or this Code, all
wage and salary scales shall be fixed and determined by the Council.
   C.   Table Of Organization And Lines Of Responsibility: The Council may by
resolution adopt, amend, and from time to time revise, a table of organization
and define lines of responsibility and authority for the efficient governmental
organization of the City. (1988 Code § 2.30)
1-6-2: POLICE DEPARTMENT:
A Police Department is hereby established. The head of this department shall be
known as the Chief of Police, and the number of additional members and
employees of the Police Department shall be determined by the Council which may
be changed from time-to-time. The Mayor shall have, without the approval of the
Council, authority to appoint additional members of the Police Department for
temporary duty when in his judgment an emergency exists for the preservation of
life or property. The Chief of Police and all members of the Police Department
shall have the powers and authority of police officers generally and shall
perform such duties as are required of them by the Council or by law. The Chief
of Police shall have overall supervision and management of the Police
Department and custody of all property used and maintained for the purposes of
said department. The Chief of Police shall make and file such reports as may be
required by the Council. (1988 Code § 2.31)
1-6-3: FIRE DEPARTMENT:
A Volunteer Fire Department under the control of the Council is hereby
established. The size, composition and remuneration shall all be established by
resolution of the Council, which may be changed from time-to-time by subsequent
resolution. The Council shall also establish written rules and regulations of
the Department, a copy of which shall be distributed to each of its members.
The members of the Department shall elect their own Chief, Assistant Chief, and
other officers subject to confirmation and approval by the Council. The Chief
of the Fire Department shall have general superintendence of the Fire
Department and the custody of all property used and maintained for the purposes
of said department. He shall see that the same are kept in proper order and
that all rules and regulations and all provisions of the laws of the State and
ordinances of the City relative to a Fire Department and to the prevention and
extinguishment of fires are duly observed. He shall superintend the
preservation of all property endangered by fire and shall have control and
direction of all persons engaged in preserving such property. In case of the
absence or disability of the Chief for any cause, the Assistant Chief shall
exercise all the powers, perform all the duties and be subject to all the
responsibilities of the Chief. The Chief of the Fire Department shall make and
file such reports as may be requested by the Council. (1988 Code § 2.32)
1-6-4: LEGAL DEPARTMENT:
A Legal Department is hereby established. The Council shall appoint a City
Attorney, who shall be head of the Legal Department, together with such
assistants as may be necessary who shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.
The City Attorney shall perform such duties as are required of him by law or
referred to him by the Council. It shall be the official duty of the City
Attorney to act as "revisor of ordinances". (1988 Code § 2.33)
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS; HEARINGS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Right To Administrative Appeal
1-7-2: Rules Of Procedure For Appeals And Other Hearings
1-7-1: RIGHT TO ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL:
If any person shall be aggrieved by any administrative decision of the City
Clerk or any other City official, or any board or commission not having within
its structure an appellate procedure, such aggrieved person is entitled to a
full hearing before the Council upon serving a written request therefor upon
the Mayor and City Clerk at least five (5) days prior to any regular Council
meeting. Such request shall contain a general statement setting forth the
administrative decision to be challenged by the appellant. At such hearing the
appellant may present any evidence he deems pertinent to the appeal, but the
City shall not be required to keep a verbatim record of the proceedings. The
Mayor, or other officer presiding at the hearing, may, in the interest of
justice or to comply with time requirements and on his own motion or the motion
of the appellant, the City Clerk, or a member of the Council, adjourn the
hearing to a more convenient time or place, but such time or place shall be
fixed and determined before adjournment so as to avoid the necessity for formal
notice of reconvening. (1988 Code § 2.03)
1-7-2: RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR APPEALS AND OTHER HEARINGS:
The Council may adopt by resolution certain written rules of procedure to be
followed in all administrative appeals and other hearings to be held before the
Council or other bodies authorized to hold hearings and determine questions
therein presented. Such rules of procedure shall be effective thirty (30) days
after adoption and shall be for the purpose of establishing and maintaining
order and decorum in the proceedings. (1988 Code § 2.04)
CHAPTER 8
ACCOUNTS, CLAIMS AND DEMANDS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Generally
1-8-2: Discretionary Exception
1-8-3: Form Of Declaration
1-8-4: Form And Effect Of Declaration On Check
1-8-5: Signing Checks
1-8-1: GENERALLY:
Except as to an annual salary, fees of jurors or witnesses fixed by law, or
wages or salaries of employees which have been fixed on an hourly, daily,
weekly or monthly basis by the Council and which by law are authorized to be
paid on a payroll basis, any account, claim or demand against the City which
can be itemized in the ordinary course of business, the Council shall not audit
or allow the claim until the person claiming payment, or his agent, reduces it
to writing, in items, and signs a declaration to the effect that such account,
claim or demand is just and correct and that no part of it has been paid. (1988
Code § 2.06)
1-8-2: DISCRETIONARY EXCEPTION:
The Council may, in its discretion, allow a claim prepared by the City Clerk
prior to such declaration by the claimant if the declaration is made on the
check by which the claim is paid. (1988 Code § 2.06)
1-8-3: FORM OF DECLARATION:
The declaration provided for in section
1-8-2 of this chapter is sufficient in the following form:
I declare under the penalties of law that this account, claim or demand is just
and correct and that no part of it has been paid.
                   (Signature of Claimant).
(1988 Code § 2.06)
1-8-4: FORM AND EFFECT OF DECLARATION ON CHECK:
The declaration provided for in section
1-8-2 of this chapter shall be printed on the reverse side of the check, above
the space for endorsement thereof by the payee, as follows: "The undersigned
payee, in endorsing this check declares that the same is received in payment of
a just and correct claim against the City, and that no part of it has
heretofore been paid". When endorsed by the payee named in the check, such
statement shall operate and shall be deemed sufficient as the required
declaration of claim. (1988 Code § 2.06)
1-8-5: SIGNING CHECKS:
All checks shall be signed by the City Clerk. (1988 Code § 2.06)
CHAPTER 9
UNCLAIMED OR EXCESS PROPERTY DISPOSAL
SECTION:
1-9-1: Unclaimed Property
1-9-2: Excess Property
1-9-3: Person Who May Not Purchase; Exception
1-9-1: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
   A.   Definition: The term "abandoned property" means tangible or intangible
property that has lawfully come into the possession of the City in the course
of Municipal operations, remains unclaimed by the owner, and has been in the
possession of the City for at least sixty (60) days and has been declared such
by a resolution of the Council.
   B.   Preliminary Notice: If the City Clerk knows the identity and
whereabouts of the owner, he shall serve written notice upon him at least
thirty (30) days prior to a declaration of abandonment by the Council. If the
City acquired possession from a prior holder, the identity and whereabouts of
whom are known by the City Clerk, notice shall also be served upon him. Such
notice shall describe the property and state that unless it is claimed, and
proof of ownership or entitlement to possession established, the matter of
declaring it abandoned property will be brought to the attention of the Council
after the expiration of thirty (30) days from the date of such notice. (1988
Code § 2.70)
   C.   Notice And Sale: Upon adoption of a resolution declaring certain
property to be abandoned property, the City Clerk shall publish a notice
thereof describing the same, together with the names (if known) and addresses
(if known) of prior owners and holders thereof, and including a brief
description of such property. The text of such notice shall also state the
time, place and manner of sale of all such property, except cash and
negotiables. Such notice shall be published once in the official newspaper of
the City at least three (3) weeks prior to sale. Sale shall be made to the
highest bidder at public auction or sale conducted in the manner directed by
the Council in its resolution declaring property abandoned and stated in the
notice. (1988 Code § 2.70; amd. 1996 Code)
   D.   Fund And Claims Thereon: All proceeds from such sale shall be paid into
the General Fund of the City and expenses thereof paid therefrom. The former
owner, if he makes claim within eight (8) months from the date of publication
of the notice herein provided, and upon application and satisfactory proof of
ownership, may be paid the amount of cash or negotiables or, in the case of
property sold, the amount received therefor, less a pro rata share of the
expenses of storage, publication of notice, and sale expenses, but without
interest. Such payment shall be also made from the General Fund. (1988 Code §
2.70)
1-9-2: EXCESS PROPERTY:
   A.   Declaration Of Surplus And Authorizing Sale Of Property: The City Clerk
may, from time to time, recommend to the Council that certain personal property
(chattels) owned by the City is no longer needed for a Municipal purpose and
should be sold. By action of the Council, said property shall be declared
surplus, the value estimated and the City Clerk authorized to dispose of said
property in the manner stated herein.
   B.   Value Less Than One Hundred Dollars: The City Clerk may sell surplus
property with a total value of less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) through
negotiated sale.
   C.   Value Between One Hundred Dollars And Five Hundred Dollars: The City
Clerk shall offer for public sale, to the highest bidder, surplus property with
a total estimated value of from one hundred dollars ($100.00) to five hundred
dollars ($500.00). Notice of such public sale shall be given stating time and
place of sale and generally describing the property to be sold at least ten
(10) days prior to the date of sale either by publication once in the official
newspaper, or by posting in a conspicuous place in the City Hall at the City
Clerk's option. Such sale shall be by auction.
   D.   Value Over Five Hundred Dollars: The City Clerk shall offer for public
sale, to the highest bidder, surplus property with a total estimated value over
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Notice of such public sale shall be given
stating time and place of sale and generally describing property to be sold at
least ten (10) days prior to the date of sale by publication once in the
official newspaper. Such sale shall be to the person submitting the highest
bid.
   E.   Receipts From Sales Of Surplus Property: All receipts from sales of
surplus property under this section shall be placed in the General Fund. (1988
Code § 2.70)
1-9-3: PERSONS WHO MAY NOT PURCHASE; EXCEPTION:
   A.   No employee of the City who is a member of the administrative staff,
department head, a member of the Council, or an advisor serving the City in a
professional capacity, may be a purchaser of property under this chapter. Other
City employees may be purchasers if they are not directly involved in the sale,
if they are the highest responsible bidder, and if at least one week's
published or posted notice of sale is given.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to be a purchaser of property under this
chapter if such purchase is prohibited by the terms of this chapter. (1988 Code
§ 2.70)
CHAPTER 10
CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-10-1: Established
1-10-2: Duties And Responsibilities
1-10-1: ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The position of City Manager is hereby established.
   B.   All of the administrative work of the City is hereby consolidated under
the position of City Manager who shall be responsible for the supervision of
all such work.
   C.   The City Manager shall be appointed by the City Council and shall serve
at the pleasure of the City Council for a continuing term until resigning or
being terminated by the City Council. (Ord. 62, 2nd Series, 4-4-2000)
1-10-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The City Manager shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
   A.   Manage and supervise the operations of all City departments to include,
but not be limited to, the following duties:
      1.   Develop administrative policies and procedures.
      2.   Develop operational plans for all departments.
      3.   Set goals, strategies, and objectives for the organization.
      4.   Establish guidelines for evaluating the effectiveness of operations.
      5.   Coordinate the development of policies for consideration by the City
Council.
      6.   Direct and coordinate City Council meeting preparation including
research, reports, and correspondence.
      7.   Direct the implementation of City Council actions by all City
departments.
      8.   Oversee the election process.
   B.   Direct the financial activities of the City pursuant to chapter 7 of
the City Charter including, but not limited to, the following duties:
      1.   Preparation of the annual City budget for presentation to the City
Council.
      2.   Preparation of financial goals and objectives.
      3.   Monitor and control over all departmental budgets and expenses.
      4.   Authorize all purchases and expenditures. No alterations in the
budget may be made except by authorization of the City Council as provided in
sections 7.08 and 7.09 of the City Charter.
      5.   Provide for independent audits of City financial operations subject
to the approval of the City Council.
      6.   Recommend improvements in the financial systems to the City Council.
   C.   Coordinate and direct personnel functions of the City to include:
      1.   Appointing authority for all employees.
      2.   Establish personnel policies.
      3.   Direct the implementation of Federal, State, and local laws and
regulations regarding City personnel.
      4.   Recommend salary changes based on position requirements and employee
performance.
      5.   Conduct labor negotiations.
      6.   Perform disciplinary action as prescribed in labor agreements and
personnel rules and regulations.
      7.   Direct implementation of employee benefit programs and recommend new
programs or changes in existing programs.
   D.   Direct the Planning and Community Development programs of the City to
include:
      1.   Act as or appoint staff to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      2.   Meeting with developers regarding land uses and potential land
developments.
      3.   Direct staff preparation of materials for the development of capital
improvement programs and long range planning.
      4.   Recommend courses of action regarding development planning.
      5.   Provide for and obtain planning advice.
   E.   Direct all operations of the City including the Public Utilities
Department. The City Council shall direct the work of City employees through
the City Manager by official actions duly adopted. The City Manager shall be
the Chief Administrative Officer for the Public Utilities Commission and have
the same powers and responsibilities for the administrative work of the
commission and the supervision thereof as for all other work of the City.
   F.   Perform communications activities to include:
      1.   Resolution of citizen complaints/problems regarding City services.
      2.   Respond to media inquiries through the preparation of news releases
and other methods of public information.
      3.   Deliver presentations on behalf of the City at various official
functions.
      4.   Testify at legal proceedings or before legislative bodies.
   G.   Advise the City Council on actions by other jurisdictions which would
affect City operations.
   H.   Act as a liaison between the City and other governmental and
nongovernmental entities.
   I.   Attend all City Council meetings and other public meetings as needed.
(Ord. 62, 2nd Series, 4-4-2000)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Regulations Generally
2-1-2: Salaries Authorized
2-1-1: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: Except as otherwise provided in the charter,
this chapter, or other law, this section shall apply to all boards, commissions
and committees. (1988 Code § 2.50)
   B.   Appointments: All board, commission and committee appointments shall be
made by the Mayor, and such appointments confirmed by the Council on the first
Tuesday in January of each year.
   C.   Terms: All terms existing, extended, or appointed in May of 1999 shall
expire on the first Tuesday in January in the year of their designated
expiration. Thereafter, the terms of all other appointees shall be established
and stated at the time of their appointments so as to give effect to this
section. (Ord. 54, 2nd Series, 5-4-1999)
   D.   Assumption Of Office: New appointees shall assume office on the day
following their appointment and qualification, or on the first day of the month
following the expiration of the prior term and qualification, whichever shall
occur last. Provided, however, that all appointees to boards, commissions and
committees shall hold office until their successor is appointed and qualified.
   E.   Filling Vacancies: All vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as
for an expired term, but the appointment shall be effective immediately when
made and only for the unexpired term.
   F.   Compensation: All appointed board, commission and committee members
shall serve without remuneration, except as provided in section
2-1-2 of this chapter, but may be reimbursed for out of pocket expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties when such expenses have been
authorized by the Council before they were incurred.
   G.   Chairman And Secretary: The Chairman and the Secretary shall be chosen
from and by the board, commission or committee membership annually to serve for
one year.
   H.   Removal From Office: Any board, commission or committee member may be
removed by the Council for misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in office
and his position filled as any other vacancy 1 .
   I.   Meetings: Each board, commission and committee shall hold its regular
meeting at a time established and approved by the Council.
   J.   Advisory To Council: All boards, commissions and committees shall be
advisory to the Council, except as otherwise specified.
   K.   Elect Officers: Each board, commission and committee shall elect a
Chairman, a Vice Chairman and a Secretary to serve for a one year term.
   L.   Council Authority: Committees may, from time to time, be established
and abolished by resolution of the Council to serve in an advisory capacity for
a specific purpose. (1988 Code § 2.50)
 
Notes
1 1. See Charter § 2.14 for notice and opportunity for hearing.
2-1-2: SALARIES AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Criteria: The City Council may by resolution pay members of boards,
commissions, committees and authorities if the following criteria is met:
      1.   A minimum of ten (10) full time employees must be managed.
      2.   The board, commission, committee or authority must manage or be in
charge of an income or revenue producing area of the City.
      3.   There must be a minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
managed by the board, committee, commission, or authority.
      4.   Regular monthly meetings must be held.
      5.   Annual sales or revenues must equal one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) or more.
   B.   Payment From Revenues Of Board: Any salaries authorized by resolution
of the City Council must be paid from the sales or revenues of the board,
commission, committee or authority. (Ord. 8, 2nd Series, 4-3-1990; amd. 1996
Code)
CHAPTER 2
AIRPORT BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Establishment; Composition
2-2-2: Powers And Duties
2-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION:
An Airport Board is hereby established. The board shall be composed of five (5)
members who shall serve staggered three (3) year terms. (1988 Code § 2.53)
2-2-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board shall advise the Council in all matters dealing with the airport and
its operation. It shall recommend an annual operating budget, report on the
adequacy of facilities, recommend capital improvements, and serve as a forum
for others to express their views on subjects relating to the airport and its
operation. (1988 Code § 2.53)
CHAPTER 3
LIBRARY BOARD
SECTION:
2-3-1: Establishment; Composition
2-3-2: Duties
2-3-3: Title To Property
2-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION:
A Library Board composed of five (5) members, all of whom shall be residents of
the City and shall serve staggered three (3) year terms, is hereby established.
All appointments for a full term, or to fill a vacancy for an unexpired term,
shall be made by the Mayor with the approval of the Council and a member may be
removed in the same manner for misconduct or neglect 1 . No more than one
Councilmember shall be a member of the Board. Members shall receive no
compensation for their services but may be reimbursed for actual and necessary
travel expenses incurred in the discharge of board duties and activities. (1988
Code § 2.54)
 
Notes
1 1. See Charter § 2.14 for notice and opportunity for hearing.
2-3-2: DUTIES:
The duties of the board are as follows:
   A.   Elect Officers; Adopt Rules And Regulations: To annually elect from its
membership a President, Secretary and such other officers as it deems necessary
and adopt rules and regulations for the government of the library and conduct
of its business.
   B.   Library Fund: To pay into the City Treasury all monies received for the
library, and interest thereon, which shall be credited to the Library Fund and
kept separate from the other monies of the City, and paid out only upon
approval of the board.
   C.   Control Of Property: To have exclusive control of library grounds and
rooms.
   D.   Report Of Circulation: To annually report to the Council receipts and
their sources, disbursements and for what purposes, the number of library
materials on hand, purchased and loaned, and other information it deems
advisable; and, to file such information with the Minnesota Department of
Education not later than April 1 of each year. (1988 Code § 2.54)
2-3-3: TITLE TO PROPERTY:
All property given, granted, conveyed, donated, devised, or bequeathed to, or
otherwise acquired by, the City for a library shall vest in, and be held in the
name of, the City, and any conveyance, grant, donation, devise, bequest or gift
made to, or in the name of, the library or Library Board shall be deemed to
have been made directly to the City. (1988 Code § 2.54)
CHAPTER 4
PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
SECTION:
2-4-1: Establishment; Composition
2-4-2: Duties
2-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION:
A Park and Recreation Board is hereby established. The board shall be composed
of five (5) members who shall serve staggered three (3) year terms. (1988 Code
§ 2.55)
2-4-2: DUTIES:
The Park and Recreation Board shall have charge of all matters relating to
recreation, public parks, lakes and playgrounds, and the maintenance,
improvement and expansion thereof. The board shall also advise the Council in
all matters relating to the management and establishment of rules and
regulations relating thereto. The Council shall have overriding authority in
all matters relating to parks and recreation. (1988 Code § 2.55)
CHAPTER 5
AMBULANCE COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 65, 2nd Series, 1-2-2001)
CHAPTER 6
POLICE COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 65, 2nd Series, 1-2-2001)
CHAPTER 7
HOSPITAL BOARD
SECTION:
2-7-1: Establishment; Composition
2-7-2: Powers And Duties
2-7-1: ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION:
A Hospital Board is hereby established. The board shall be composed of seven
(7) members who shall serve staggered three (3) year terms. The City Clerk, by
virtue of his position, shall act as Secretary-Treasurer of the board. (1988
Code § 2.59)
2-7-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Hospital Board shall have the power and duty to administer and control the
operation of the hospital including, but not by way of limitation, maintenance
of buildings and equipment, employment and discharge of personnel, fixing rates
and charges, control of funds including acceptance of payment of accounts and
payment of expenses, and keeping accurate records of all receipts,
disbursements, and proceedings of the board. (1988 Code § 2.59)
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-8-1: Establishment; Composition
2-8-2: Powers And Duties
2-8-3: Disposition Of Funds
2-8-1: ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION:
A Public Utilities Commission is hereby established. The commission shall be
composed of five (5) members who shall serve staggered five (5) year terms.
(1988 Code § 2.60)
2-8-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The commission shall have complete control, management and operation of the
electrical and water utilities of the City. The powers and duties of the
commission include, but are not limited to, employment and discharge of
personnel, fixing rates and charges for utilities over which it has
jurisdiction, and to repair, replace, extend, improve and to make changes and
additions to such utilities, except such as may require issuance of bonds or
specially assessing for improvements to real estate. Provided, however, that
all accounts shall be paid to the City at the Office of the City Clerk. (1988
Code § 2.60; amd. Ord. 88, 2nd Series, 2-13-2007)
2-8-3: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
All money of the department shall be paid to the City Clerk and held by the
City Treasurer as a part of the funds of the City, and the commission shall as
often as practical transfer therefrom into the General Fund of the City:
   A.   Six percent (6%) of the gross annual receipts from supplying
electricity, for electric franchise; and
   B.   Any surplus money, as the commission sees fit. (Ord. 88, 2nd Series, 2-
13-2007)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Applications
3-1-3: Action On Application, Transfer, Termination And Duplicate License
3-1-4: Fixing License Fees
3-1-5: Carrying Or Posting
3-1-6: Penalty For Property Owner
3-1-7: Responsibility Of Licensee
3-1-8: Conditional Licenses
3-1-9: Insurance Requirements
3-1-10: Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
stated:
APPLICANT: Any person making an application for a license under this chapter.
APPLICATION: A form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be filled in and
completed by the applicant at his request for a license, furnished by the City
and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration of the issuance
of a license for a business.
BOND: A corporate surety document in the form and with the provisions
acceptable and specifically approved by the City Attorney.
BUSINESS: Any activity, occupation, sale of goods or services, or transaction
that is either licensed or regulated, or both licensed and regulated, by the
terms and conditions of this chapter.
LICENSE: A document issued by the City to an applicant permitting him to carry
on and transact a business.
LICENSE FEE: The money paid to the City pursuant to an application and prior to
issuance of a license to transact and carry on a business.
LICENSEE: An applicant who, pursuant to his application, holds a valid,
current, unexpired and unrevoked license from the City for carrying on a
business.
SALE, SELL AND SOLD: All forms of barter and all manner or means of furnishing
merchandise to persons. (1988 Code § 6.01)
3-1-2: APPLICATIONS:
All applications shall be made as follows:
   A.   Place And Form: All applications shall be made at the Office of the
City Clerk upon forms that have been furnished by the City for such purposes.
   B.   Information Required: Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter,
all such applications must be subscribed, sworn to, and include such
information as the Council shall deem necessary considering the nature of the
business for which license application is made.
   C.   Misinformation Prohibited: It is unlawful for any applicant to
intentionally make a false statement or omission upon any application form. Any
false statement in such application, or any wilful omission to state any
information called for on such application form, shall, upon discovery of such
falsehood work an automatic refusal of license, or if already issued, shall
render any license or permit issued pursuant thereto, void, and of no effect to
protect the applicant from prosecution for violation of this chapter, or any
part hereof.
   D.   Investigation: The City Clerk shall, upon receipt of each application
completed in accordance herewith, forthwith investigate the truth of statements
made therein and the moral character and business reputation of each applicant
for license to such extent as he deems necessary. For such investigation the
City Clerk may enlist the aid of the Chief of Police. The Council shall not
consider an application before such investigation has been completed.
   E.   Renewal Forms: Applications for renewal licenses may be made in such
abbreviated form as the Council may by resolution adopt. (1988 Code § 6.02)
3-1-3: ACTION ON APPLICATION, TRANSFER, TERMINATION AND DUPLICATE LICENSE:
   A.   Granting: The Council may grant any application for the period of the
remainder of the then current license year or for the entire ensuing license
year. Failure to pay any portion of a fee when due shall be cause for
revocation. No license fee shall be refundable upon revocation or voluntarily
ceasing to carry on the licensed activity. All applications, including proposed
license periods, must be consistent with this chapter.
   B.   Issuing: If an application is approved, the City Clerk shall forthwith
issue a license pursuant thereto in the form prescribed by the Council, payment
of the appropriate license fee, and approval of the bond or insurance as to
form and surety or carrier, if required. All licenses shall be on a yearly
basis unless otherwise specified herein as to particular businesses. Unless
otherwise herein specified, license fees shall be prorated on the basis of one-
twelfth (1/12) for each month or part thereof remaining in the then current
license year. Provided, that for licenses where the fee is less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) a minimum license fee equal to one-half (1/2) of the
annual license fee shall be charged. Except as to licenses which are
specifically City-wide, licenses shall be valid only at one location and on the
premises therein described.
   C.    Transfer: Unless otherwise provided herein, no license shall be
transferable between persons or to a different location. It is unlawful to make
any transfer in violation of this subsection.
   D.    Termination: Licenses shall terminate only by expiration or
revocation.
   E.    Refusal And/Or Revocation: The Council may, for any reasonable cause,
refuse to grant any application, or revoke any license. No license shall be
granted to a person of questionable moral character or business reputation.
Before revocation of any license, the Council shall give notice to the licensee
and grant such licensee opportunity to be heard. Notice to be given and the
exact time of hearing shall be stated in the resolution calling for such
hearing. Grounds for revocation may be, but are not limited to, any of the
following: 1) that the licensee suffered or permitted illegal acts upon
licensed premises; 2) that the licensee had knowledge of such illegal acts but
failed to report the same to police; 3) that the licensee failed or refused to
cooperate fully with police in investigating such alleged illegal acts; or, 4)
that the activities of the licensee created a serious danger to public health,
safety, or welfare.
   F.    Duplicate License: Duplicates of all original licenses may be issued
by the City Clerk, without action by the Council, upon licensee's affidavit
that the original has been lost, and upon payment of a fee in an amount adopted
by resolution of the Council for issuance of the duplicate. All duplicate
licenses shall be clearly marked "duplicate". (1988 Code § 6.03)
3-1-4: FIXING LICENSE FEES:
Except as otherwise herein provided, all fees for licenses (late fee penalties,
and investigation of applicants) under this chapter shall be fixed and
determined by the Council, adopted by resolution, and uniformly enforced. Such
license fees may, from time-to-time, be amended by the Council by resolution. A
copy of the resolution setting forth currently effective license fees shall be
kept on file in the Office of the City Clerk and open to inspection during
regular business hours. For the purpose of fixing such fees, the Council may
subdivide and categorize licenses under a specific license requirement;
provided, that any such subdivision or categorization shall be included in the
resolution authorized by this section. (1988 Code § 6.04)
3-1-5: CARRYING OR POSTING:
All solicitors 1  shall at all times when so engaged, carry their license on
their person. All other licensees shall post their licenses in their place of
business near the licensed activity. Provided, however, that in the case of
machine or other device licensing, the City may provide a sticker for the
current license year which shall be affixed to each machine or device requiring
such sticker. All licensees shall display their licenses upon demand by any
officer or citizen. (1988 Code § 6.05)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 7 of this title for additional provisions.
3-1-6: PENALTY FOR PROPERTY OWNER:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any real property owned or
controlled by him to be used, without a license, for any business for which a
license is required by this chapter. (1988 Code § 6.06)
3-1-7: RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE:
The conduct of agents or employees of a licensee, while engaged in performance
of their duties for their principal or employer under such license, shall be
deemed the conduct of the licensee. (1988 Code § 6.07)
3-1-8: CONDITIONAL LICENSES:
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the Council may, upon a
finding of the necessity therefor, place such conditions and restrictions upon
a license as it, in its discretion, may deem reasonable and justified. (1988
Code § 6.08)
3-1-9: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Whenever insurance is required by a section of this chapter, after approval by
the Council, but before the license shall issue, the applicant shall file with
the City Clerk a policy or certificate of public liability insurance showing:
a) that the limits are at least as high as required, b) that coverage is
effective for at least the license term approved, and c) that such insurance
will not be cancelled or terminated without thirty (30) days' written notice
served upon the City Clerk. Cancellation or termination of such coverage shall
be grounds for license revocation. (1988 Code § 6.09)
3-1-10: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
title when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or fails
to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as otherwise
stated in specific provisions hereof. (1988 Code § 6.99)
CHAPTER 2
LODGING TAX
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Imposition Of Tax
3-2-3: Collections
3-2-4: Exceptions And Exemptions
3-2-5: Advertising No Tax
3-2-6: Payment And Returns
3-2-7: Examination Of Return, Adjustments, Notices And Demands
3-2-8: Refunds
3-2-9: Failure To File A Return
3-2-10: Administration Of Tax
3-2-11: Examine Records
3-2-12: Use Of Proceeds
3-2-13: Appeals
3-2-14: Violations
3-2-15: Penalties
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words, and
their derivations have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural form include the singular and words in the singular include the plural
form. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
CITY: The City of Sleepy Eye.
LODGER: The person obtaining lodging from an operator.
LODGING: The furnishing for a consideration of lodging by a hotel, motel, bed
and breakfast, public/private campground, except where such lodging shall be
for a continuous period of thirty (30) days or more to the same lodger(s). The
furnishing of rooms owned by religious, educational or nonprofit organizations
for self-sponsored activities shall not constitute "lodging" for purposes of
this program.
OPERATOR: The person who is the proprietor of the lodging facility, whether in
the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, licensee, or any other capacity.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, estate,
receiver, trustee, executor, administrator, assignee, syndicate, or any other
combination of individuals. Whenever the term "person" is used in any provision
of this chapter prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term as applied to a
corporation, association or partnership shall mean the officers or partners
thereof, as the case may be.
RENT: The total consideration valued in money charged for the lodging whether
paid in money or otherwise, but shall not include any charges for services
rendered in connection with furnishing lodging other than the room charge
itself. (Ord. 18, 2nd Series, 5-4-1993)
3-2-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 469.190, there is hereby imposed a tax
on the rent charged by an operator for providing lodging to any person of five
percent (5%). The tax collected by the operator shall be extinguished only by
payment to the City. In no case shall the tax imposed by this section upon an
operator exceed the amount of tax which the operator is authorized and required
by this program to collect from a lodger. (Ord. 18, 2nd Series, 5-4-1993; amd.
Ord. 137, 2nd Series, 6-12-2017)
3-2-3: COLLECTIONS:
Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this program at the time the
rent is paid. The tax collections shall be deemed to be held in trust by the
operator for the City. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the
rent charged for the lodging, and those persons paying the tax shall receive a
receipt of payment from the operator. (Ord. 18, 2nd Series, 5-4-1993)
3-2-4: EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
An exemption shall be granted to any person as to whom or whose occupancy it is
beyond the power of the City to tax. No exemption shall be granted except upon
a claim therefor made at the time the rent is collected, and such a claim shall
be made in writing and under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the City.
All such claims shall be forwarded to the City when the returns and collections
are submitted as required by this chapter. (Ord. 18, 2nd Series, 5-4-1993)
3-2-5: ADVERTISING NO TAX:
It shall be unlawful for any operator to advertise or hold out or state to the
public or any customer, directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part
thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be
added to the rent or that, if added, it or any part thereof will be refunded.
(Ord. 18, 2nd Series, 5-4-1993)
3-2-6: PAYMENT AND RETURNS:
   A.   Return Due; Information Required: The taxes imposed by this program
shall be paid monthly by the operator to the City not later than twenty (20)
days after the end of the month in which the taxes were collected. At the time
of payment, the operator shall submit a return upon such forms and containing
such information as the City Clerk may require. The return shall contain the
following minimum information:
      1.   The total amount of rent collected for lodging during the period
covered by the return.
      2.   The total amount of exceptions/exemptions.
      3.   The amount of tax required to be collected and due for the period.
      4.   The signature of the person filing the return or that of his agent
duly authorized in writing.
      5.   The period covered by the return.
      6.   The amount of uncollectible rental charges subject to the Lodging
Tax.
   B.   Previously Paid Taxes An Offset: The operator may offset against the
taxes payable with respect to any reporting period, the amount of taxes imposed
by this program previously paid as a result of any transaction the
consideration for which became uncollectible during such reporting period, but
only in proportion to the portion of such consideration which became
uncollectible. (Ord. 18, 2nd Series, 5-4-1993)
3-2-7: EXAMINATION OF RETURN, ADJUSTMENTS, NOTICES AND DEMANDS:
The City Clerk shall, after a return is filed, examine the same and make any
investigation or examination of the records and accounts of the person making
the return deemed necessary for determining its correctness. The tax computed
on the basis of such examination shall be the tax to be paid. If the tax due is
found to be greater than that paid, such excess shall be paid to the City
within ten (10) days after receipt of a notice thereof given either personally
or sent by registered mail to the address shown on the return. If the tax paid
is greater than the tax found to be due, the excess shall be refunded to the
person who paid the tax to the City within ten (10) days after determination of
such refund. (Ord. 18, 2nd Series, 5-4-1993)
3-2-8: REFUNDS:
Any person may apply to the City Clerk for a refund of taxes paid in excess of
the amount legally due for that period; provided, that no application for a
refund shall be considered unless filed within one year after such tax was
paid, or within one year from the filing of the return, whichever period is the
longer. The City Clerk shall examine the claim and make and file written
findings thereon denying or allowing the claim in whole or in part and shall
mail a notice thereof by registered mail to such person at the address stated
upon the return. If such claim is allowed in whole or in part, the City Clerk
shall credit the amount of the allowance against any taxes due under this
program from the claimant. (Ord. 18, 2nd Series, 5-4-1993)
3-2-9: FAILURE TO FILE A RETURN:
   A.   Delinquent Or False Return Payment: If any operator required by this
program to file a return shall fail to do so within the time prescribed or
shall make, wilfully or otherwise, an incorrect, false or fraudulent return,
the operator shall, upon written notice and demand, file such return or
corrected return within five (5) days of receipt of such written notice and
shall at the same time pay any tax due on the basis thereof. If such person
shall fail to file such return or corrected return, the City Clerk shall make a
return or corrected return for such person from such knowledge and information
as the Director can obtain, and assess a tax on the basis thereof, which tax
(less any payments theretofore made on account of the tax for the taxable
period covered by such return) shall be paid within five (5) days of the
receipt of written notice and demand for such payment. Any such return or
assessment made by the City Clerk shall be prima facie correct and valid, and
such person shall have the burden of establishing its incorrectness or
invalidity in any action or proceeding with respect thereto.
   B.   Delay Of Payment:
      1.   If any portion of a tax imposed by this program, including penalties
thereon, is not paid within thirty (30) days after it is required to be paid,
the City may institute such legal action as may be necessary to recover the
amount due plus interest, penalties and the cost and disbursements of any
action.
      2.   Upon a showing of good cause, the City Clerk may grant an operator
one (1) 30-day extension of time within which to file a return and make payment
of taxes as required by this chapter; provided, that interest during such
period of extension shall be added to the taxes due at the rate of ten percent
(10%) per annum. (Ord. 18, 2nd Series, 5-4-1993)
3-2-10: ADMINISTRATION OF TAX:
The City Clerk shall administer and enforce the assessment and collection of
the taxes imposed by this chapter. The Director shall cause to be prepared
blank forms for the returns and other documents required by this chapter and
shall distribute the same throughout the City and furnish them upon
application; but failure to receive or secure them shall not relieve any person
from any obligation required under this chapter. (Ord. 18, 2nd Series, 5-4-
1993)
3-2-11: EXAMINE RECORDS:
The City Clerk may examine the books, papers and records of any operator in
order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return was made, to
ascertain the tax as provided in this program. Every such operator is directed
and required to give to the City Clerk the means, facilities and opportunity
for such examinations and investigations as are hereby authorized. (Ord. 18,
2nd Series, 5-4-1993)
3-2-12: USE OF PROCEEDS:
   A.   Statutory Provisions: The ninety five percent (95%) proceeds obtained
from the collection of taxes pursuant to this program shall be used in
accordance with Minnesota Statutes section 469.190 as the same may be amended
from time to time to fund a local convention/tourism bureau for the purpose of
marketing and promoting the City as a tourist/convention center. The City may
retain a maximum of five percent (5%) for administrative costs.
   B.   Agreement; Terms: The City by and through an agreement entitled
"Agreement for the Establishment of a Convention and Visitors Bureau Between
the City of Sleepy Eye and the Sleepy Eye Area Chamber of Commerce"
(hereinafter the "agreement") with the Sleepy Eye Area Chamber of Commerce
(hereinafter "Chamber of Commerce") hereby permits the Chamber of Commerce to
create the Sleepy Eye Area Convention and Visitors Bureau (hereinafter "CVB").
CVB will be funded by the tax set forth herein and pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes section 469.190. The agreement sets forth the purpose and duties of
CVB and provides for its internal structure. Pursuant to the terms of the
agreement, and specifically incorporated herein without limiting the effect of
the agreement, are the following terms. CVB shall:
      1.   Establish and maintain separate books and records;
      2.   Establish separate bank accounts;
      3.   Not commingle its funds with the Chamber of Commerce or any other
entity.
   C.   Hold Harmless: Any and all employees of the Chamber of Commerce or the
CVB, or any other persons, while engaged in the performance of any service
required by the Chamber of Commerce, shall not be considered employees of the
City, and any and all claims that may or might rise under the Worker's
Compensation Act of the State of Minnesota on behalf of said employees or other
persons while so engaged, and any and all claims made by the third party as a
consequence of any act or omission on the part of the Chamber, or its agents or
employees or other persons while so engaged in any of the services provided to
be rendered herein, shall in no way be the obligation or the responsibility of
the City. And in connection therewith, the Chamber of Commerce, hereby agrees
to indemnify, save and hold harmless, defend the City and all its agents and
employees thereof, from any and all claims, demands, actions or causes of
action of whatever nature or character arising out of or by reason of the
execution or the performances of the services provided in accordance with this
agreement, excepting therefrom City Administrator duties and City duties
relating to the collection of taxes.
   D.   Violation A Misdemeanor: Violation of this chapter shall be considered
a misdemeanor and punished by a fine of seven hundred dollars ($700.00) or
ninety (90) days in jail, or both.
   E.   Budget Approval Required: The annual budget submitted by CVB to the
City Council for its approval shall be approved or disapproved in total. (Ord.
18, 2nd Series, 5-4-1993)
3-2-13: APPEALS:
   A.   Filing Petition: Any operator aggrieved by any notice, order or
determination made by the City Clerk under this chapter may file a petition for
review of such notice, order or determination detailing the operator's reasons
for contesting the notice, order or determination. The petition shall contain
the name of the petitioner, the petitioner's address and the location of the
lodging subject to the order, notice or determination.
   B.   Time Limit For Filing: The petition for review shall be filed with the
Mayor within ten (10) days after the notice, order or determination for which
review is sought has been mailed or served upon the person requesting review.
   C.   Set Hearing Date: Upon receipt of the petition, the Mayor, or his/her
designee shall set a date for a hearing and give the petitioner at least five
(5) days' prior written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing.
   D.   Petitioner Representation: At the hearing, the petitioner shall be
given an opportunity to show cause why the notice, order or determination
should be modified or withdrawn. The petitioner may be represented by counsel
of petitioner's choosing at petitioner's own expense.
   E.   Conduct Of Disputes: Any disputes shall be conducted in accordance with
principles and rules of the American Arbitration Association.
   F.   Findings Of Fact: The hearing examiner conducting the hearing shall
make written findings of fact and conclusions based upon the applicable
sections of this chapter and the evidence presented. The person conducting the
hearing may affirm, reverse or modify the notice, order or determination made
by the City Clerk.
   G.   Appeal Of Decision: Any decision rendered by the hearing examiner
pursuant to this section may be appealed to the City Council. A petitioner
seeking to appeal a decision must file a written notice of appeal with the
Mayor within ten (10) days after the decision has been mailed to the
petitioner. The matter will thereupon be placed on the Council agenda as soon
as practicable. The Council shall then review the findings of fact and
conclusions to determine whether they were correct. Upon a determination by the
Council that findings and conclusions were incorrect, the Council may modify,
reverse or affirm the decision of the hearing examiner or his designee upon the
same standards as set forth in subsection F of this section. (Ord. 18, 2nd
Series, 5-4-1993)
3-2-14: VIOLATIONS:
Any person who shall wilfully fail to make a return required by this program or
shall fail to pay the tax after written demand for payment, or who shall fail
to remit the taxes collected or any penalty or interest imposed by this chapter
after written demand for such payment or who shall refuse to permit the City
Clerk to examine the books, records and papers under his or her control, or who
shall wilfully make an incomplete, false or fraudulent return shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 18, 2nd Series, 5-4-1993)
3-2-15: PENALTIES:
   A.   Timely Payment Required; Specific Penalty: If any tax imposed by this
chapter is not paid within the time herein specified for the payment, or any
extension thereof, there shall be added thereto a specific penalty equal to ten
percent (10%) of the amount remaining unpaid.
   B.   Additional Delinquent Penalty: In case of any failure to make and file
a return within the time prescribed by this chapter, unless it is shown that
such failure is not due to wilful neglect, there shall be added to the tax, in
addition to the ten percent (10%) specific penalty provided in subsection A of
this section, ten percent (10%) if the failure is for not more than thirty (30)
days with an additional five percent (5%) for each additional thirty (30) days
or fraction thereof during which failure continues, not exceeding twenty five
percent (25%) in the aggregate. If the penalty as computed does not exceed ten
dollars ($10.00), a minimum penalty of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be assessed.
The amount so added to any tax shall be collected at the same time and in the
same manner and as a part of the tax unless the tax has been paid before the
discovery of the negligence, in which case the amount so added shall be
collected in the same manner as the tax.
   C.   Failure To File; Misinformation: If any person wilfully fails to file
any return or make any payment required by this chapter, or wilfully files a
false or fraudulent return or wilfully attempts in any manner to evade or
defeat any such tax or payment thereof, there shall also be imposed as a
penalty an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of any tax (less amounts paid on
the basis of such false or fraudulent return) found due for the period to which
such return related. The penalty imposed by this subsection shall be collected
as part of the tax, and shall be in addition to any other penalties provided by
this chapter.
   D.   Disposition Of Payment: All payments received shall be credited first
to penalties, next to interest, and then to the tax due. (Ord. 18, 2nd Series,
5-4-1993)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Application; Procedure; Administration
3-3-3: Delinquent Taxes And Charges
3-3-4: Conditional Licenses
3-3-5: Premises Licensed
3-3-6: Unlawful Acts
3-3-7: Conduct On Licensed Premises
3-3-8: Sale By Employee
3-3-9: License Condition And Unlawful Act
3-3-10: License Fees; Fixing And Refundment
3-3-11: Financial Responsibility Of Licensees
3-3-12: Insurance Certificate Requirements
3-3-13: Minors; Unlawful Acts
3-3-14: Consumption And Possession On Public Property And Private Parking Lots
3-3-15: Alcoholic Beverages In Certain Buildings And Grounds
3-3-16: Alcoholic Beverages; Certain Unlawful Acts
3-3-17: Nudity Or Obscenity Prohibited
3-3-18: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless otherwise stated in specific sections, the
following words and terms shall have the meanings stated:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beverage containing more than one- half of one percent
(0.5%) alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, beer, wine, and liquor
as defined in this section.
APPLICANT: Any person making an application for a license under this chapter.
APPLICATION: A form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be filled in and
completed by the applicant as his request for a license, furnished by the City
and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration of the issuance
of a license for a business.
BEER: Malt liquor containing not less than one-half of one percent (0.5%)
alcohol by volume nor more than 3.2 percent alcohol by weight. (This definition
includes so-called "malt coolers" with the alcoholic content limits stated
herein.)
BREWER: A person who manufactures beer for sale.
CLUB: An incorporated organization organized under the laws of the State for
civic, fraternal, social, or business purposes, for intellectual improvement,
or for the promotion of sports, or a congressionally chartered veterans'
organization, which: a) has more than fifty (50) members; b) has owned or
rented a building or space in a building for more than one year that is
suitable and adequate for the accommodation of its members; c) is directed by a
board of directors, executive committee, or other similar body chosen by the
members at a meeting held for that purpose. No member, officer, agent, or
employee shall receive any profit from the distribution or sale of beverages to
the members of the club, or their guests, beyond a reasonable salary or wages
fixed and voted each year by the governing body. Such club or congressionally
chartered veterans' organization must have been in existence for at least three
(3) years.
COMMISSIONER: The Minnesota Commissioner of Public Safety.
HOTEL: An establishment where food and lodging are regularly furnished to
transients and which has: a) a resident proprietor or manager; b) a dining room
serving the general public at tables and having facilities for seating at least
thirty (30) guests at one time; and c) at least ten (10) guest rooms.
LICENSE: A document, issued by the City, to an applicant permitting him to
carry on and transact the business stated therein.
LICENSE FEE: The money paid to the City pursuant to an application and prior to
issuance of a license to transact and carry on the business stated therein.
LICENSED PREMISES: The premises described in the issued license.
LICENSEE: An applicant who, pursuant to his approved application, holds a
valid, current, unexpired license, which has neither been revoked nor is then
under suspension, from the City for carrying on the business stated therein.
LIQUOR: Ethyl alcohol and distilled, fermented, spirituous, vinous and malt
beverages containing in excess of 3.2 percent of alcohol by weight. (This
definition includes so-called "wine coolers" and "malt coolers" with the
alcoholic content limits stated herein.)
MALT LIQUOR: Any beer, ale, or other beverage made from malt by fermentation
and containing not less than one-half of one percent (0.5%) alcohol by volume.
MANUFACTURER: Every person who, by any process of manufacture, fermenting,
brewing, distilling, refining, rectifying, blending, or by the combination of
different materials, prepares or produces alcoholic beverages for sale.
MINOR: Any natural person who has not attained the age of twenty one (21)
years.
OFF-SALE: The sale of intoxicating liquor in original packages for consumption
off the licensed premises only.
ON-SALE: The sale of intoxicating liquor for consumption on the licensed
premises only.
PACKAGE AND ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any container or receptacle holding intoxicating
liquors which container or receptacle is corked, capped or sealed by a
manufacturer or wholesaler.
RESTAURANT: An establishment, other than a hotel, under the control of a single
proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly served at tables to the
general public, and having seating capacity for at least twenty five (25)
guests.
SALE, SELL AND SOLD: All barters and all manners or means of furnishing
intoxicating liquor to persons, including such furnishing in violation or
evasion of law.
WHOLESALER: Any person engaged in the business of selling intoxicating liquor
to a licensee from a stock maintained in a warehouse.
WINE: A beverage made without rectification or fortification by the
fermentation of sound ripe grapes, grape juice, other fruits, or honey, and
also carbonated wine, wine made from condensed grape must, wine made from other
agricultural products, imitation wine, compounds sold as wine, vermouth, cider,
perry and sake, containing not less than one-half of one percent (0.5%) nor
more than fourteen percent (14%) alcohol by volume. (This definition includes
so-called "wine coolers" with the alcoholic content limits stated herein.)
(1988 Code § 5.01)
3-3-2: LICENSE APPLICATION; PROCEDURE; ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Application: All applications shall be made at the Office of the City
Clerk upon forms prescribed by the City, or if by the Commissioner, then
together with such additional information as the Council may desire.
Information required may vary with the type of business organization making
application. All questions asked or information required by the application
forms shall be answered fully and completely by the applicant. Every
application for the issuance or renewal of a liquor or beer license must
include a copy of each summons received by the applicant during the preceding
year under Minnesota Statutes section 340A.802.
   B.   False Statements: It is unlawful for any applicant to intentionally
make a false statement or omission upon any application form. Any false
statement in such application, or any wilful omission to state any information
called for on such application form shall, upon discovery of such falsehood,
work an automatic refusal of license, or if already issued, shall render any
license issued pursuant thereto void and of no effect to protect the applicant
from prosecution for violation of this chapter, or any part thereof.
   C.   Application And Investigation Fees: At the time the initial application
is made, an applicant for a license under this chapter shall accompany such
application with payment of a fee to be considered an application and
investigation fee, not refundable to the applicant, to cover the cost of the
City in processing the application and the investigation of the applicant. No
such fee shall be required of an applicant for a temporary beer license.
   D.   Council Action:
      1.   Granting: The Council may approve any application for the period of
the remainder of the then current license year or for the entire ensuing
license year. All applications including proposed license periods must be
consistent with this chapter. Prior to consideration of any application for a
license, the applicant shall pay the license fee, and if applicable, pay the
investigation fee. Upon rejection of any application for a license, or upon
withdrawal of an application before consideration by the Council, the license
fee shall be refunded to the applicant. Failure to pay any portion of a fee
when due shall be cause for revocation. (1988 Code § 5.02)
      2.   Issuing: If an application is approved, the City Clerk shall
forthwith issue a license pursuant thereto in the form prescribed by the City
or the Commissioner, as the case may be. Except as otherwise specifically
provided, all licenses shall be in effect from July 1 to June 30. For licenses
issued and which are to become effective other than on the first day of the
licensed year, the fee to be paid with the application shall be a pro rata
share of the annual license fee. Licenses shall be valid only at one location
and on the premises therein described. (1988 Code § 5.02; amd. 1996 Code)
      3.   Transfer: No license shall be transferable between persons or to a
different location. Any change in individual ownership, incorporation, or
substitution of partners is a transfer. It is unlawful to make any transfer in
violation of this subsection D3.
      4.   Refusal And Termination: The Council may, in its sole discretion and
for any reasonable cause, refuse to grant any application. No license shall be
granted to a person of questionable moral character or business reputation.
Licenses shall terminate only by expiration or revocation.
      5.   Public Interest: No license under this chapter may be issued,
transferred or renewed if the results of any investigation show, to the
satisfaction of the Council that such issuance, transfer, or renewal would not
be in the public interest.
      6.   Revocation Or Suspension: The Council shall revoke or suspend, for a
period not to exceed sixty (60) days, a license granted under the provisions of
this chapter, or impose a civil fine not to exceed two thousand dollars
($2,000.00), for each violation on a finding that the licensee has failed to
comply with a statute, regulation or provision of this Code relating to
intoxicating liquor. The Council shall revoke the license upon conviction of
any licensee or agent or employee of a licensee for violating any law relating
to the sale or possession of beer, wine or liquor upon premises of the
licensee, or if such revocation is mandatory by statute. If it shall be made to
appear at the hearing thereon that such violation was not wilful, the Council
may order suspension; provided, that revocation shall be ordered upon the third
such violation or offense. No suspension or revocation shall take effect until
the licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing before the Council,
a committee of the Council, or a hearing under the Administrative Procedures
Act, as may be determined by the Council in action calling the hearing. Such
hearing shall be called by the Council upon written notice to the licensee
served in person or by certified mail not less than fifteen (15) nor more than
thirty (30) days prior to the hearing date, stating the time, place and purpose
thereof. As additional restrictions or regulations on licensees under this
chapter, and in addition to grounds for revocation or suspension stated in this
Code or statute, the following shall also be grounds for such action: a) that
the licensee suffered or permitted illegal acts upon licensed premises
unrelated to the sale of beer, wine or liquor; b) that the licensee had
knowledge of such illegal acts upon licensed premises, but failed to report the
same to police; c) that the licensee failed or refused to cooperate fully with
police in investigating such alleged illegal acts upon licensed premises; or,
d) that the activities of the licensee created a serious danger to public
health, safety, or welfare.
      7.   Corporate Applicants And Licensees: A corporate applicant, at the
time of application, shall furnish the City with a list of all persons that
have an interest in such corporation and the extent of such interest. The list
shall name all shareholders and show the number of shares held by each, either
individually or beneficially for others. It is the duty of each corporate
licensee to notify the City Clerk in writing of any change in legal ownership,
or beneficial interest in such corporation or in such shares. Any change in the
ownership or beneficial interest in the shares entitled to be voted at a
meeting of the shareholders of a corporate licensee, which results in the
change of voting control of the corporation by the persons owning the shares
therein, shall be deemed equivalent to a transfer of the license issued to the
corporation, and any such license shall be revoked thirty (30) days after any
such change in ownership or beneficial interest of shares unless the Council
has been notified of the change in writing and has approved it by appropriate
action. The Council, or any officer of the City designated by it, may at any
reasonable time examine the stock transfer records and minute books of any
corporate licensee in order to verify and identify the shareholders, and the
Council or its designated officer may examine the business records of any other
licensee to the extent necessary to disclose the interest which persons other
than the licensee have in the licensed business. The Council may revoke any
license issued upon its determination that a change of ownership of shares in a
corporate licensee or any change of ownership of any interest in the business
of any other licensee has actually resulted in the change of control of the
licensed business so as materially to affect the integrity and character of its
management and its operation, but no such action shall be taken until after a
hearing by the Council on notice to the licensee.
   E.   Duplicate Licenses: Duplicates of all original licenses under this
chapter may be issued by the City Clerk without action by the Council, upon
licensee's affidavit that the original has been lost, and upon payment of a fee
of two dollars ($2.00) for issuance of the duplicate. All duplicate licenses
shall be clearly marked "duplicate".
   F.   Posting: All licensees shall conspicuously post their licenses in their
places of business.
   G.   Resident Manager Or Agent: Before a license is issued under this
chapter to an individual who is a nonresident of the City, to more than one
individual whether or not they are residents of the City, or to a corporation,
partnership, or association, the applicant or applicants shall appoint in
writing a natural person who is a resident of the City as its manager or agent.
Such resident manager or agent shall, by the terms of his written consent: 1)
take full responsibility for the conduct of the licensed premises, and, 2)
serve as agent for service of notices and other process relating to the
license. Such manager or agent must be a person who, by reason of age,
character, reputation, and other attributes, could qualify individually as a
licensee. If such manager or agent ceases to be a resident of the City or
ceases to act in such capacity for the licensee without appointment of a
successor, the license issued pursuant to such appointment shall be subject to
revocation or suspension. (1988 Code § 5.02)
3-3-3: DELINQUENT TAXES AND CHARGES:
No license under this chapter shall be granted for operation on any premises
upon which taxes, assessments, or installments thereof, or other financial
claims of the City, are owed and are delinquent and unpaid. (1988 Code § 5.03)
3-3-4: CONDITIONAL LICENSES:
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the Council may, upon a
finding of the necessity therefor, place such special conditions and
restrictions, in addition to those stated in this chapter, upon any license as
it, in its discretion, may deem reasonable and justified. (1988 Code § 5.04)
3-3-5: PREMISES LICENSED:
Unless expressly stated therein, a license issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be valid only in the compact and contiguous building or structure
situated on the premises described in the license, and all transactions
relating to a sale under such license must take place within such building or
structure. (1988 Code § 5.05)
3-3-6: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Consumption: It is unlawful for any person to consume, or any licensee
to permit consumption of, intoxicating liquor on licensed premises more than
twenty (20) minutes after the hour when a sale thereof can legally be made.
   B.   Removal Of Containers: It is unlawful for any on-sale licensee to
permit any glass, bottle or other container, containing intoxicating liquor in
any quantity, to remain upon any table, bar, stool or other place where
customers are served, more than twenty (20) minutes after the hour when a sale
thereof can legally be made.
   C.   Closing: It is unlawful for any person, other than an on-sale licensee
or his bona fide employee actually engaged in the performance of his duties, to
be on premises licensed under this chapter more than thirty (30) minutes after
the legal time for making licensed sales. Provided, however, that this
subsection shall not apply to licensees, employees of licensees and patrons on
licensed premises for the sole purpose of preparing, serving or consuming food
or beverages other than intoxicating liquor. (1988 Code § 5.06)
3-3-7: CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES:
Except as herein provided, every licensee under this chapter shall be
responsible for the conduct of his place of business and shall maintain
conditions of sobriety and order therein. (1988 Code § 5.07)
3-3-8: SALE BY EMPLOYEE:
Any sale of intoxicating liquor in or from any premises licensed under this
chapter by any employee authorized to make such sale in or from such place is
the act of the employer as well as of the person actually making the sale; and
every such employer is liable to all of the penalties, except criminal
penalties, provided by law for such sale, equally with the person actually
making the sale. (1988 Code § 5.09)
3-3-9: LICENSE CONDITION AND UNLAWFUL ACT:
   A.   Consent To Inspections: All premises licensed under this chapter shall
at all times be open to inspection by any police officer to determine whether
or not this chapter and all other laws are being observed. All persons, as a
condition to being issued such license, consent to such inspection by such
officers and without a warrant for searches or seizures.
   B.   Barring Inspections Unlawful: It is unlawful for any licensee, or agent
or employee of a licensee, to hinder or prevent a police officer from making
such inspection. (1988 Code § 5.09)
3-3-10: LICENSE FEES; FIXING AND REFUNDMENT:
   A.   Fixing Fees: Except as otherwise specifically provided, all fees for
licenses provided for in this chapter, including, but not by way of limitation,
license fees, investigation and administration fees, shall be fixed and
determined by the Council, adopted by resolution, and uniformly enforced. Such
fees may, from time to time, be amended by the Council by resolution. A copy of
the resolution shall be kept on file in the Office of the City Clerk and open
to inspection during regular business hours. For the purpose of fixing such
fees, the Council may categorize and classify; provided, that such
categorization and classification shall be included in the resolution
authorized by this section.
   B.   Refund: A pro rata share of an annual license fee for a license to sell
liquor or beer, either on-sale or off-sale, shall be refunded to the licensee,
or to his estate, if: 1) the business ceases to operate because of destruction
or damage; 2) the licensee dies; or, 3) the business ceases to be lawful for a
reason other than a license revocation or suspension. (1988 Code § 5.10)
3-3-11: FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEES:
   A.   Proof: No intoxicating liquor license shall be issued or renewed unless
and until the applicant has provided proof of financial responsibility, imposed
by statute, by filing with the City:
      1.   A certificate that there is in effect an insurance policy or pool
providing minimum coverage of: a) fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) because
of bodily injury to any one person in any one occurrence, and, subject to the
limit for one person, in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) because of bodily injury to two (2) or more persons in any one
occurrence, and in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) because of
injury to or destruction of property of others in any one occurrence, and b)
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for loss of means of support of any one
person in any one occurrence, and, subject to the limit for one person, one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for loss of means of support of two (2)
or more persons in any one occurrence; an annual aggregate of three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) may be included in the insurance coverage; or,
      2.   A bond of a surety company with minimum coverage as provided in
subsection A1 of this section; or,
      3.   A certificate of the State Treasurer that the licensee has deposited
with him one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) in cash or securities which
may legally be purchased by savings banks or for trust funds having a market
value of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
   B.   Exception: This section does not apply to on-sale beer licensees with
sales of beer of less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for the preceding
year, nor to off-sale beer licensees with sales of beer of less than twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) for the preceding year, nor does it apply to
holders of on-sale wine licenses with sales of wine of less than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) for the preceding year. An affidavit of the licensee shall
be required to establish the exemption under this subsection.
   C.   Documents Submitted To Commissioner: All proof of financial
responsibility and exemption affidavits filed with the City under this section
shall be submitted by the City to the Commissioner. (1988 Code § 5.11)
3-3-12: INSURANCE CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS:
Whenever an insurance certificate is required by this chapter the applicant
shall file with the City Clerk a certificate of insurance showing: a) that the
limits are at least as high as required, b) that coverage is effective for at
least the license term approved, and c) that such insurance will not be
cancelled or terminated without thirty (30) days' written notice served upon
the City Clerk. Cancellation or termination of such coverage shall be grounds
for license revocation. (1988 Code § 5.12)
3-3-13: MINORS; UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Consumption: It is unlawful for any:
      1.   Licensee to permit any minor to consume alcoholic beverages on
licensed premises.
      2.   Minor to consume alcoholic beverages except in the household of the
minor's parent or guardian, and then only with the consent of such parent or
guardian.
   B.   Purchasing: It is unlawful for any:
      1.   Person to sell, barter, furnish, or give alcoholic beverages to a
minor unless such person is the parent or guardian of the minor, and then only
for consumption in the household of such parent or guardian.
      2.   Minor to purchase or attempt to purchase any alcoholic beverages.
      3.   Person to induce a minor to purchase or procure any alcoholic
beverages.
   C.   Possession: It is unlawful for a minor to possess any alcoholic
beverages with the intent to consume it at a place other than the household of
the minor's parent or guardian. Possession of any alcoholic beverages by a
minor at a place other than the household of the parent or guardian is prima
facie evidence of intent to consume it at a place other than the household of
his parent or guardian. (1988 Code § 5.13)
3-3-14: CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY AND PRIVATE PARKING LOTS:
It is unlawful for any person to consume, or possess in an unsealed container,
any alcoholic beverages on any: a) premises of a gasoline service station after
it is closed for business, b) street, c) public property, except City-owned
parks, or d) private parking lot to which the public has access, except on such
premises when and where permission has been specifically granted or licensed by
the Council. Provided, that this section shall not apply to the possession of
an unsealed container in a motor vehicle when the container is kept in the
trunk of such vehicle if it is equipped with a trunk, or kept in some other
area of the vehicle not normally occupied by the driver or passengers, if the
motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk. For the purpose of this section, a
utility or glove compartment shall be deemed to be within the area occupied by
the driver or passengers. (1988 Code § 5.14)
3-3-15: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN CERTAIN BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS:
It is unlawful for any person to introduce upon, or have in his possession
upon, or in, any school ground, or any schoolhouse or school building, any
alcoholic beverages except for experiments in laboratories. (1988 Code § 5.15)
3-3-16: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CERTAIN UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It is unlawful for any:
   A.   Person to knowingly induce another to make an illegal sale or purchase
of alcoholic beverages.
   B.   Licensee to sell or serve alcoholic beverages to any person who is
obviously intoxicated.
   C.   Licensee to fail, where doubt could exist, to require adequate proof of
age of a person upon licensed premises.
   D.   Licensee to sell any alcoholic beverages on any day, or during any
hour, when such sales are not permitted by law.
   E.   Licensee to allow consumption of any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises on any day, or during any hour, when such consumption is not permitted
by law.
   F.   Person to purchase alcoholic beverages on any day, or during any hour,
when such sales are not permitted by law. (1988 Code § 5.16)
3-3-17: NUDITY OR OBSCENITY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings stated:
    NUDITY: Uncovered, or less than opaquely covered, post-pubertal human
genitals, pubic areas, the post-pubertal human female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola, or the covered human male genitals in
a discernibly turgid state. For purposes of this definition, a female breast is
considered uncovered if the nipple only or the nipple and the areola only are
covered.
   OBSCENE PERFORMANCE: A play, motion picture, dance, show or other
presentation, whether pictured, animated or live, performed before an audience
and which in whole or in part depicts or reveals nudity, sexual conduct, sexual
excitement or sado- masochistic abuse, or which includes obscenities or
explicit verbal descriptions or narrative accounts of sexual conduct.
   OBSCENITIES: Those slang words currently generally rejected for regular use
in mixed society, that are used to refer to genitals, female breasts, sexual
conduct or excretory functions or products, either that have no other meaning
or that in context are clearly used for their bodily, sexual or excretory
meaning.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE: Flagellation or torture by or upon a person who is
nude or clad in undergarments or in revealing or bizarre costume, or the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the
part of one so clothed.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT: Human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or any touching of
the genitals, pubic areas or buttocks of the human male or female, or the
breasts of the female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite
sex or between humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or
gratification.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT: The condition of human male or female genitals or the
breasts of the female when in a state of sexual stimulation, or the sensual
experiences of humans engaging in or witnessing sexual conduct or nudity.
   B.   Unlawful Act: It is unlawful for any person issued a license provided
for in this chapter to permit upon licensed premises any nudity, obscene
performance, or continued use of obscenities by any agent, employee, patron or
other person. (1988 Code § 5.98)
3-3-18: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof. (1988 Code § 5.99)
ARTICLE A. BEER
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Beer License Required; Exception
3-3A-2: Temporary Beer License
3-3A-3: Seasonal Beer License
3-3A-4: Hours And Days Of Beer Sales
3-3A-1: BEER LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, on any pretense or by
any device, to sell, barter, keep for sale, or otherwise dispose of beer, as
part of a commercial transaction, without a license therefor from the City.
This section shall not apply to sales by manufacturers to wholesalers or to
sales by wholesalers to persons holding beer licenses from the City. Annual on-
sale beer licenses may be issued only to drug stores, restaurants, hotels,
bowling centers, clubs, and establishments used exclusively for the sale of
beer with the incidental sale of tobacco and soft drinks. Any person licensed
to sell liquor on- sale shall not be required to obtain an on-sale beer
license, and may sell beer on-sale without an additional license. (1988 Code §
5.30)
3-3A-2: TEMPORARY BEER LICENSE:
   A.   Applicant: A club or charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization
shall qualify for a temporary on-sale beer license. Such organization shall be
duly incorporated as a nonprofit or religious corporation under the laws of the
State of Minnesota and having its registered office and principal place of
activity within the City.
   B.   Conditions:
      1.   An application for a temporary license shall state the exact dates
and place of proposed temporary sale.
      2.   No applicant shall qualify for a temporary license for more than a
total of seven (7) days in any calendar year.
      3.   The Council may, but at no time shall it be under any obligation
whatsoever to, grant a temporary beer license on premises owned or controlled
by the City. Any such license may be conditioned, qualified or restricted as
the Council sees fit. If the premises to be licensed is owned or under the
control of the City, the applicant shall file with the City, prior to issuance
of the license, a certificate of liability insurance coverage in at least the
sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for injury to any one person and one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for injury to more than one person, and
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for property damage, naming the City as an
insured during the license period. Such license shall be issued only on the
condition that the applicant will not sell in excess of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) (retail value) worth of beer in any fiscal year, and thereupon
shall be exempt from proof of financial responsibility as provided for herein.
(1988 Code § 5.31)
3-3A-3: SEASONAL BEER LICENSE:
   A.   License Established: There is hereby established a seasonal on-sale
beer license which is granted to the Sleepy Eye Baseball Association to be
applied for on a yearly basis.
   B.   Validity: The seasonal license allowed to the Sleepy Eye Baseball
Association shall be effective from April 15 through September 30 of each year.
   C.   Yearly Application: The Sleepy Eye Baseball Association shall apply for
a license each year in order for said license to be effective.
   D.   Fee: The license fee for the yearly seasonal license shall be
established by resolution of the City Council for the City. (Ord. 3, 2nd
Series, 4-5-1989)
3-3A-4: HOURS AND DAYS OF BEER SALES:
No sale of beer shall be made between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on the days of Monday through Saturday, nor between
the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Sunday.
(1988 Code § 5.32)
ARTICLE B. ON-SALE LIQUOR AND WINE
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Liquor License Required
3-3B-2: Sunday Sales
3-3B-3: Sports, Convention Or Cultural Facilities License
3-3B-4: Temporary Liquor License
3-3B-5: Hours And Days Of Liquor Sales
3-3B-6: On-Sale Wine License Required
3-3B-7: Hours And Days Of Sales By On-Sale Wine Licensees
3-3B-8: License Restrictions, Regulations And Unlawful Acts
3-3B-1: LIQUOR LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, on any pretense or by
any device, to sell, barter, keep for sale, or otherwise dispose of liquor, as
part of a commercial transaction, without a license therefor from the City.
This article shall not apply: a) to such potable liquors as are intended for
therapeutic purposes and not as a beverage, b) to industrial alcohol and its
compounds not prepared or used for beverage purposes, c) to wine in the
possession of a person duly licensed under this chapter as an on-sale wine
licensee, d) to sales by manufacturers to wholesalers duly licensed as such by
the Commissioner, e) to sales by wholesalers to persons holding liquor licenses
from the City, or f) to the Municipal liquor store. The voters of the City
having authorized such issuance at a special election called for that purpose,
the City may issue on-sale liquor licenses to: a) hotels; b) restaurants; and,
c) clubs, provided that liquor sales will be made only to members and bona fide
guests. Any person licensed to sell liquor on-sale shall not be required to
obtain an on-sale beer license, and may sell beer on-sale without an additional
license. (1988 Code § 5.40)
3-3B-2: SUNDAY SALES:
The electorate of the City having heretofore authorized the same at a general
or special election, a Sunday on-sale liquor license may be issued to "hotels",
"restaurants", or "clubs", as defined in section
3-3-1 of this chapter, which have on-sale licenses and which also have
facilities for serving not less than thirty (30) guests at one time. The hours
of such sales shall be from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon Sunday to one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. Monday in conjunction with the serving of food; provided, that the
licensed establishment is in conformance with the Minnesota Clean Indoor Air
Act 1 . (Ord. 6, 2nd Series, 8-1-1989)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA § 144.411 et seq.
3-3B-3: SPORTS, CONVENTION OR CULTURAL FACILITIES LICENSE:
The Council may authorize any holder of an on-sale liquor license issued by the
City or by an adjacent municipality to sell liquor at any convention, banquet,
conference, meeting or social affair conducted on the premises of a sports,
convention or cultural facility owned by the City, or instrumentality thereof
having independent policy-making and appropriating authority and located within
the City. The licensee must be engaged to sell liquor at such an event by the
person or organization permitted to use the premises, and may sell liquor only
to persons attending the event. The licensee shall not sell liquor to any
person attending or participating in any amateur athletic event. Such sales may
be limited to designated areas of the facility. All such sales shall be subject
to all laws relating thereto. (1988 Code § 5.42)
3-3B-4: TEMPORARY LIQUOR LICENSE:
   A.   License Authorized: Notwithstanding any provision of this Code to the
contrary, the Council may issue a license for the temporary on-sale of liquor
in connection with a social event sponsored by the licensee. Such license may
provide that the licensee may contract with the holder of a full-year on-sale
license, issued by the City, for liquor catering services.
   B.   Applicant: The applicant for a license under this section must be a
club or charitable, religious, or other nonprofit organization in existence for
at least three (3) years.
   C.   Terms And Conditions Of License:
      1.   No license is valid until approved by the Commissioner.
      2.   No license shall be issued for more than three (3) consecutive days.
      3.   All licenses and licensees are subject to all provisions of statutes
and this Code relating to liquor sale and licensing. The licensee shall provide
proof of financial responsibility coverage and, in the case of catering, by a
full-year on-sale licensee, such caterer shall provide proof of the extension
of such coverage to the licensed premises.
      4.   Licenses may authorize sales on premises other than those owned or
permanently occupied by the licensee.
   D.   Insurance Required: The Council may, but at no time shall it be under
any obligation whatsoever to, grant a temporary liquor license on premises
owned or controlled by the City. Any such license may be conditioned, qualified
or restricted as the Council sees fit. If the premises to be licensed is owned
or under the control of the City, the applicant shall file with the City, prior
to issuance of the license, a certificate of liability insurance coverage in at
least the sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for injury to any one
person, one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for injury to more than one
person, and ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for property damage, naming the
City as an insured during the license period. (1988 Code § 5.43)
3-3B-5: HOURS AND DAYS OF LIQUOR SALES:
No on-sale sales of liquor shall be made between the hours of one o'clock (1:
00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on the days of Monday through Saturday,
nor between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon on Sunday. No off- sale shall be made on Sunday nor before eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. or after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Monday through Saturday, nor
on New Year's Day, January 1; Independence Day, July 4; Thanksgiving Day; or
Christmas Day, December 25. No sale of liquor shall be made after eight o'clock
(8:00) P.M. on December 24. (Ord. 6, 2nd Series, 8-1-1989)
3-3B-6: ON-SALE WINE LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, on any pretense or by
any device, to sell, barter, keep for sale, or otherwise dispose of wine on-
sale, as part of a commercial transaction, without a license therefor from the
City. This section shall not apply: a) to sales by manufacturers to wholesalers
duly licensed as such by the Commissioner, b) to sales by wholesalers to
persons holding on-sale or off-sale liquor licenses from the City, c) to sales
by wholesalers to persons holding on-sale wine licenses from the City, or d) to
sales by on-sale liquor licensees on days and during hours when on-sale liquor
sales are permitted. (1988 Code § 5.45)
3-3B-7: HOURS AND DAYS OF SALES BY ON-SALE WINE LICENSEES:
No on-sale of wine shall be made between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon on Sunday, nor between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and until
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on Monday through Saturday, nor between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on December 24 and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on
December 25. (Ord. 6, 2nd Series, 8-1-1989)
3-3B-8: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS, REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Bond Required: Prior to issuance of any license the applicant shall
file with the City Clerk a bond with a corporate surety, cash, or United States
government bonds in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for an on-sale
liquor or wine license. A bond filed under this section must be conditional on
the licensee obeying all laws governing the business and paying all taxes,
fees, penalties, and other charges, and must provide that the bond is forfeited
to the City issuing the license on a violation of law. The Commissioner must
approve all bonds filed by applicants for an off-sale license.
   B.   Licenses In Connection With Premises Of Another: A license may not be
issued to a person in connection with the premises of another to whom a license
could not be issued under the provisions of this chapter. This section does not
prevent the granting of a license to a proper lessee because the person has
leased the premises of a minor, a noncitizen who is not a resident alien, or a
person who has been convicted of a crime other than a violation of this
chapter.
   C.   Employment Of Minors: No person under eighteen (18) years of age may
sell or serve liquor or wine on licensed premises.
   D.   On-Sale Wine Establishments: On-sale wine licenses shall be granted
only to "restaurants" as defined in section
3-3-1 of this chapter. Provided, however, for purposes of this article, such
restaurant shall have appropriate facilities for seating not less than twenty
five (25) guests at one time. (1988 Code § 5.47)
ARTICLE C. CLUBS
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Definitions
3-3C-2: Daily Register
3-3C-3: Restricted And Prohibited Acts
3-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this article, shall have the meanings stated:
GUEST: A person not a member of the club but present on the club licensed
premises in the company of a host member.
HOST MEMBER: A member who is entertaining a guest who is in the member's
company at all times such guest is on the licensed premises.
MEMBER: Any person in good standing according to rules and regulations of the
licensed club, wherever located, having evidence of current membership upon his
person. (1988 Code § 5.70)
3-3C-2: DAILY REGISTER:
In addition to all other general provisions, restrictions and regulations set
forth in this chapter, relating to beer or liquor licensees, as the case may
be, all club licensees shall keep a daily register showing the names of guests
present and the name of the host member. Such register shall be open to
inspection by police officers at all times. (1988 Code § 5.70)
3-3C-3: RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTS:
The following are in addition to all other unlawful acts set forth in this
chapter relating to sales and purchases of beer or liquor, as the case may be.
It is unlawful for:
   A.   Liquor Sales Restricted: A club licensee to sell liquor or beer to any
person not a member, or a bona fide guest of a member, of the licensed club.
   B.   Guests Only Served: Any club licensee to serve beer or liquor to any
nonmember of the licensed club unless such nonmember is a guest.
   C.   Persons Liable: Any person who is not a member, or a bona fide guest of
a member, of the licensed club to purchase liquor or beer from the club.
   D.   Interfere With Officer Of Law: Any club licensee to hinder or prevent a
police officer from determining compliance with this article and chapter, and
all other laws.
   E.   Refuse To Cooperate/Give False Information: Any person to refuse, upon
request of a licensee or police officer, to provide information as to whether
he or she is a member, guest or host member, or to give false, fraudulent or
misleading information in response to such request. (1988 Code § 5.70)
ARTICLE D. MUNICIPAL DISPENSARY
SECTION:
3-3D-1: Establishment
3-3D-2: Dispensary Fund
3-3D-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
A Municipal dispensary is hereby established to be operated within the City for
the sale of alcoholic beverages. Such dispensary shall be at such place or
places as the Council shall determine and may be either leased or owned by the
City. It shall be in the charge of a person known as the manager who shall have
such assistants as may be necessary. All employees, including the manager,
shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the Council. (1988 Code § 5.71)
3-3D-2: DISPENSARY FUND:
A Liquor Dispensary Fund is hereby created into which all revenues received
from the operation of the dispensary shall be paid, and from which all
operating expenses shall be paid. Any surplus accumulating in this fund may,
from time to time, be transferred to the General Fund by resolution of the
Council, and expended for any Municipal purpose. (1988 Code § 5.71)
ARTICLE E. CONSUMPTION AND DISPLAY
SECTION:
3-3E-1: License Required
3-3E-2: Restrictions And Regulations
3-3E-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any business establishment or club, not holding an on-sale
liquor license to directly or indirectly, or on any pretense or by any device,
sell, barter, keep for sale, or otherwise dispose of any liquid for the purpose
of mixing the same with liquor, or permit its members to bring and keep a
personal supply of liquor in lockers assigned to such members, without a
license therefor from the City. (1988 Code § 5.72)
3-3E-2: RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Eligible Licensees: If the applicant is otherwise eligible, licenses
may be issued only to: 1) persons who have not, within five (5) years prior to
application, been convicted of a felony or of violating provisions of this
chapter or other law relating to the sale or furnishing of alcoholic beverages;
2) a restaurant; 3) a hotel; 4) a beer licensee; 5) a resort as defined by
statute; or, 6) a club or an unincorporated club otherwise meeting the
definition of a club, provided, that no license may be issued to a club holding
an on-sale liquor license.
   B.   Unlawful Act: It is unlawful to sell liquor on licensed premises. (1988
Code § 5.72)
   C.   License Expiration: In order to coordinate the expiration of a
consumption and display license with a State permit, all licenses shall expire
on March 31 of each year. (1988 Code § 5.72; amd. 1996 Code)
   D.   State Permit Required: Licenses shall be issued only to holders of a
consumption and display permit from the Commissioner.
   E.   Lockers: A club to which a license is issued under this article may
allow members to bring and keep a personal supply of liquor in lockers on the
club's premises. All bottles kept on the premises must have attached labels
signed by the member. No minor may keep a supply of liquor on club premises.
   F.   Hours And Days: No licensee may permit a person to consume or display
liquor, and no person may consume or display liquor, between one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Sundays, and between one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on Monday through Saturday. (1988 Code §
5.72)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC DANCES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required; Fee
3-4-3: Application And License Requirements
3-4-4: Dance Regulations
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
stated:
PUBLIC DANCE: Any dance wherein the public may participate by payment, directly
or indirectly, of an admission fee or price for dancing, which fee may be in
the form of a club membership, or payment of money, directly or indirectly.
PUBLIC DANCING PLACE: Any room, place, or space open to public patronage in
which dancing, wherein the public may participate, is carried on and to which
admission may be had by the public by payment, directly or indirectly, of an
admission fee or price for dancing. (1988 Code § 6.30)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to operate a public
dancing place, or hold a public dance, without a license therefor from the
City. (1988 Code § 6.30)
   B.   Fee: An application fee in an amount as periodically established by the
City Council shall be paid to the City of Sleepy Eye. (Ord. 01-2003, 1-14-2003)
3-4-3: APPLICATION AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application Required: A verified application for a dance license shall
be filed with the City and shall specify the names and addresses of the person,
committee or organization that is to hold the dance, time and place thereof,
and the area of the dance floor. (1988 Code § 6.30)
   B.   Criminal Record Statement: All applicants shall state whether or not
they have been convicted of a felony, gross misdemeanor, or violation of any
public dance laws within the past five (5) years. No license shall be issued to
any person who has been so convicted. (Ord. 01-2003, 1-14-2003)
   C.   Location: No license shall be granted by the City for any place having
so-called "private apartments" or "private rooms" furnished or used for any
purposes other than a legitimate business purpose which adjoins such dancing
place, or which may be reached by stairs, elevators, or passageway leading from
such dancing place. Nor shall a license be granted for any place which is not
properly ventilated and equipped with necessary toilets, washrooms or lighting
facilities.
   D.   Investigation And Report: Applications may be referred by the City to
the Chief of Police for investigation and report prior to being acted upon by
the City. (1988 Code § 6.30; amd. Ord. 01-2003, 1-14-2003)
   E.   City Manager's Office To Act: The City Manager's Office shall act upon
all dance license applications.
   F.   Officer In Attendance: At least one officer of the law who is approved
by the Chief of Police and employed and paid by the dance license recipient
shall be present at every public dance during the entire time said dance is
being held. For purposes of this subsection, the term "officer of the law"
means any person who is a full time or part-time peace officer or reserve
officer. In the discretion of the City or Chief of Police, more than one such
peace officer may be required. An exemption waiving the requirement that a
police officer be present may be granted if approved by the Police Chief and
the City. (Ord. 01-2003, 1-14-2003)
   G.   License Posted: The dance license shall be posted in the public dancing
place and shall state the name of the licensee, the amount paid therefor, and
the time and place licensed. The license shall also state that the licensee is
responsible for the manner of conducting the dance.
   H.   Under Age Persons: No license shall be issued to any applicant under
the age of eighteen (18) years. (1988 Code § 6.30)
3-4-4: DANCE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Obscenity And Immorality Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
dance, or for a licensee to permit or suffer any person to dance at any public
dance in an indecent or immodest manner. It is also unlawful for any person at
a public dance to speak in a rude, boisterous, obscene, or indecent manner or
for any licensee to suffer or permit any person so to act or speak in any
public dancing place.
   B.   Illumination: Every public dancing place shall be brightly illuminated
while in public use, and dancing therein while the lights are extinguished,
dimmed or turned low so as to give imperfect illumination is prohibited.
   C.   Certain Persons Prohibited: No licensee shall permit any unmarried
person under the age of sixteen (16) years, unless said unmarried person is
accompanied by his parent or guardian, to remain in a public dancing place. Nor
shall any licensee permit any intoxicated person, or other person who persists
in violating the law, to be or remain in a public dancing place.
   D.   Hours Of Dancing: No public dance shall be held on Sunday between the
hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon. No public
dance shall be held on any day between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (1988 Code § 6.30)
CHAPTER 5
SHOWS; PERFORMANCES; EXHIBITIONS
SECTION:
3-5-1: License Required
3-5-2: Exceptions
3-5-3: Obscenity Prohibited
3-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to present any public show, movie, caravan,
circus, carnival, theatrical or other performance or exhibition without first
having obtained a license therefor from the City. (1988 Code § 6.31)
3-5-2: EXCEPTIONS:
No license shall be required in the following instances:
   A.   Performances For Students; School And College Events: Performances
presented in the local schools and colleges, under the sponsorship of such
schools and colleges, and primarily for the students thereof only.
   B.   Performances By Students; Athletic, Musical Or Theatrical Events:
Performances of athletic, musical or theatrical events sponsored by local
schools or colleges using student talent only.
   C.   Events Sponsored By Church And Nonprofit Organizations: Any performance
or event in, or sponsored by, bona fide local church and nonprofit
organizations, provided that such organization shall be incorporated. (1988
Code § 6.31)
3-5-3: OBSCENITY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings stated:
    NUDITY: Uncovered, or less than opaquely covered, post-pubertal human
genitals, pubic areas, the post-pubertal human female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola, or the covered human male genitals in
a discernibly turgid state. For purposes of this definition, a female breast is
considered uncovered if the nipple only or the nipple and the areola only are
covered.
   OBSCENE PERFORMANCE: A performance which in whole or in part depicts or
reveals nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-masochistic abuse, or
which includes obscenities or explicit verbal descriptions or narrative
accounts of sexual conduct.
   OBSCENITIES: Those slang words currently generally rejected for regular use
in mixed society, that are used to refer to genitals, female breasts, sexual
conduct or excretory functions or products, either that have no other meaning
or that in context are clearly used for their bodily, sexual or excretory
meaning.
   PERFORMANCE: Any play, motion picture film, dance, or other exhibition
pictured, animated, or live, performed before an audience.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE: Flagellation or torture by or upon a person who is
nude or clad in undergarments or in revealing or bizarre costume, or the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the
part of one so clothed.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT: Human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or any touching of
the genitals, pubic areas or buttocks of the human male or female, or the
breasts of the female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite
sex or between humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or
gratification.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT: The condition of human male or female genitals or the
breasts of the female when in a state of sexual stimulation, or the sensual
experiences of humans engaging in or witnessing sexual conduct or nudity.
   B.   Obscene Performances Prohibited: It is unlawful for any licensee, for a
monetary consideration or other valuable commodity or service, to knowingly or
recklessly: 1) exhibit an obscene performance; or, 2) directly or indirectly
sell an admission ticket or other means to gain entrance to an obscene
performance; or, 3) directly or indirectly permit admission of a person to
premises whereon there is exhibited an obscene performance.
   C.   Prosecution: Any prosecution under this section shall include the
following elements:
      1.   That the average person, applying contemporary community standards,
would find the performance, taken as a whole, appealing to the prurient
interest of the audience;
      2.   That the performance describes or depicts, in a patently offensive
way, sexual conduct included in the definition of "obscene performance"; and,
      3.   That the performance, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary,
artistic, political or scientific value. (1988 Code § 6.31)
CHAPTER 6
TOBACCO SALE AND USAGE BY MINORS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Purpose
3-6-2: Definitions And Interpretations
3-6-3: License
3-6-4: Fees
3-6-5: Basis For Denial Of License
3-6-6: Prohibited Sales
3-6-7: Vending Machines
3-6-8: Self-Service Sales
3-6-9: Responsibility
3-6-10: Compliance Checks And Inspections
3-6-11: Other Illegal Acts
3-6-12: Violations
3-6-13: Penalties
3-6-14: Exceptions And Defenses
3-6-1: PURPOSE:
Because the City recognizes that many persons under the age of twenty-one (21)
years purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco-related devices, and electronic delivery devices, and such sales,
possession, and use are violations of both State and Federal laws; and because
studies done and available from the State Health Department, American Cancer
Society, the Association of NonSmokers and Smoke Free Coalition, which the City
hereby accepts and adopts, have shown that most smokers begin smoking before
they have reached the age of twenty-one (21) years and that those persons who
reach the age of twenty-one (21) years without having started smoking are
significantly less likely to begin smoking; and because smoking has been shown
to be the cause of several serious health problems which subsequently place a
financial burden on all levels of government; this chapter shall be intended to
regulate the sale, possession, and use of tobacco, tobacco products,
tobaccorelated devices and electronic delivery devices for the purpose of
enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect minors against the serious
effects associated with the illegal use of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-
related devices, and electronic delivery devices and to further the official
public policy of the State of Minnesota in regard to preventing young people
from starting to smoke as stated in Minnesota Statutes section 144.391. (Ord.
122, 2nd Series, 9-11-2014; amd. Ord. 165, 2nd Series, 2-11-2020)
3-6-2: DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The singular shall include
the plural and the plural shall include the singular. The masculine shall
include the feminine and neuter, and vice-versa. The term "shall" means
mandatory and the term "may" means permissive. The following terms shall have
the definitions given to them:
COMPLIANCE CHECKS: The system the City uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices,
and electronic delivery devices are following and complying with the
requirements of this chapter. Compliance checks shall involve the use of minors
as authorized by this chapter. Compliance checks shall also mean the use of
minors who attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related
devices, or electronic delivery devices for educational, research and training
purposes as authorized by State and Federal laws. Compliance checks may also be
conducted by other units of government for the purpose of enforcing appropriate
Federal, State, or local laws and regulations relating to tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco related devices, and electronic delivery devices.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICES: Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance intended for human consumption that can be used
by a person to simulate smoking in the delivery of nicotine or any other
substance through inhalation of vapor from the product. Electronic delivery
device shall include any component part of such a product whether or not sold
separately. Electronic delivery device shall not include any product that has
been approved or otherwise certified by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for legal sales for use in tobacco cessation treatment or other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
purpose.
INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED: The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco product
wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this definition shall not be
considered individually packaged.
LOOSIES: The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette.
MINOR: Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of twenty-one (21)
years.
MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any form of business operated out of a truck, van,
automobile, or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a fixed
address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for sales
transactions.
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, or electronic delivery devices are available for sale
to the general public. Retail establishments shall include, but not be limited
to, grocery stores, convenience stores, and restaurants.
SALE: Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other consideration.
SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING: Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco-related devices, or electronic delivery devices in any manner where any
person shall have access to the tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related
devices, or electronic delivery devices, without the assistance or intervention
of the licensee or the licensee's employee. The assistance or intervention
shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product,
tobacco related device, or electronic delivery device between the customer and
the licensee or employee. Self-service merchandising shall not include vending
machines.
TOBACCO OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including but not limited to, cigarettes; cigars; pipe tobacco; snuff; fine cut
or other chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready-rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff flowers; cavendish;
shorts; plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos; refuse craps, clippings,
cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in such manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing or smoking.
TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES: Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling papers,
electronic delivery device, or other device intentionally designed or intended
to be used in a manner which enables the chewing, sniffing, or smoking of
tobacco or tobacco products.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or
electronic delivery devices upon the insertion of money, tokens, or other form
of payment directly into the machine by the person seeking to purchase the
tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related device, or electronic delivery
device. (Ord. 122, 2nd Series, 9-11-2014; amd. Ord. 165, 2nd Series, 2-11-2020)
3-6-3: LICENSE:
No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco
related devices, or electronic delivery devices without first having obtained a
license to do so from the City.
   A.   Application: An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco related devices, or electronic delivery devices shall be made
on a form provided by the City. The application shall contain the full name of
the applicant, the applicant's residential and business addresses and telephone
numbers, the name of the business for which the license is sought, and any
additional information the City deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed
application, the City Clerk shall forward the application to the Council for
action at a regularly scheduled Council meeting. If the Clerk shall determine
that an application is incomplete, he or she shall return the application to
the applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
   B.   Action: The Council may either approve or deny the license, or it may
delay action for such reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
Council shall approve the license, the Clerk shall issue the license to the
applicant. If the Council denies the license, notice of the denial shall be
given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant's right to appeal the
Council's decision.
   C.   Term: All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for one
calendar year from the date of issue except the first year which may be a
partial year in order to have all licenses issued at the same time.
   D.   Revocation Or Suspension: Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in the violations and penalties section of
this chapter.
   E.   Transfers: All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the Council.
   F.   Moveable Place Of Business: No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
   G.   Display: All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   H.   Renewals: The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at no more than sixty (60) days before the expiration of
the current license. The issuance of a license issued under this chapter shall
be considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the applicant and shall
not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the license. (Ord. 122, 2nd
Series, 9-11-2014)
3-6-4: FEES:
No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license fee
shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
according to a schedule established by resolution. (Ord. 122, 2nd Series, 9-11-
2014)
3-6-5: BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license
under this chapter; however, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the
existence of any particular ground for denial does not mean that the City must
deny the license. If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it
shall be revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the
license under this section.
   A.   The applicant is under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   B.   The applicant has been convicted within the past five (5) years of any
violation of a Federal, State, or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or
electronic delivery devices.
   C.   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, or electronic delivery devices revoked within the
preceding twelve (12) months of the date of application.
   D.   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information.
   E.   The applicant is prohibited by Federal, State, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation, from holding such a license. (Ord. 122, 2nd
Series, 9-11-2014; amd. Ord. 165, 2nd Series, 2-11-2020)
3-6-6: PROHIBITED SALES:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to sell
any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related device, or electronic delivery
device.
   A.   To any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   B.   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in this chapter.
   C.   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premises in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related device, or
electronic delivery device and whereby there is not a physical exchange of the
tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related device, or electronic delivery device
between the licensee or the licensee’s employee, and the customer.
   D.   By means of loosies as defined in section
3-6-2 of this chapter.
   E.   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, belladonna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process.
   F.   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or form
prohibited by Federal, State, or other local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation. (Ord. 122, 2nd Series, 9-11-2014; amd. Ord. 165, 2nd Series, 2-11-
2020)
3-6-7: VENDING MACHINES:
It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or electronic
delivery devices by the means of a vending machine unless minors are at all
times prohibited from entering the licensed establishment. (Ord. 122, 2nd
Series, 9-11-2014)
3-6-8: SELF-SERVICE SALES:
It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the sale of
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or electronic delivery
devices by any means whereby the customer may have access to such items without
having to request the item from the licensee or the licensee's employee and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product,
tobacco related device, or electronic delivery device between the licensee or
his or her clerk and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco
related devices, and electronic delivery devices shall either be stored behind
a counter or other area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or
other storage unit not left open and accessible to the general public. Any
retailer selling tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or
electronic delivery devices at the time this chapter is adopted shall comply
with this section within sixty (60) days following the effective date of this
chapter, at which time all self-service sales of cigarettes would be banned. A
licensee will not be subject to this section if minors are at all times
prohibited from entering or ninety percent (90%) or more of their revenues are
from sale of tobacco, tobacco related products or electronic delivery devices.
(Ord. 122, 2nd Series, 9-11-2014)
3-6-9: RESPONSIBILITY:
All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of their
employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related
devices, or electronic delivery devices on the licensed premises, and the sale
of such an item by an employee shall be considered a sale by the license
holder. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the City from
also subjecting the clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this
chapter, State or Federal law, or other applicable law or regulation. (Ord.
122, 2nd Series, 9-11-2014)
3-6-10: COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS:
All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the City police or other
authorized City official during regular business hours. From time to time, but
at least once per year, the City shall conduct compliance checks by engaging,
with the written consent of their parents or guardians, minors over the age of
fifteen (15) years but less than twenty-one (21) years, to enter the licensed
premises to attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related
devices, or electronic delivery devices. Minors used for the purpose of
compliance checks shall be supervised by the City designated law enforcement
officers or other designated City personnel. Minors used for compliance checks
shall not be guilty of unlawful possession of tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, or electronic delivery devices when such items are
obtained as a part of the compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks
shall attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting the minor’s age,
and all minors lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all
questions about the minor’s age asked by the licensee or his or her employee
and shall produce any identification, if any exists, for which he or she is
asked. Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by
State or Federal laws for educational, research, or training purposes, or
required for the enforcement of a particular State or Federal law. (Ord. 122,
2nd Series, 9-11-2014; amd. Ord. 165, 2nd Series, 2-11-2020)
3-6-11: OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS:
Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   A.   Illegal Sales: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related
device, or electronic delivery device to any minor.
   B.   Illegal Possession: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco
related device, or electronic delivery device. This subsection shall not apply
to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   C.   Illegal Use: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to
smoke, chew, sniff, or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco
related device, or electronic delivery device.
   D.   Illegal Procurement: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco,
tobacco product, tobacco related device, or electronic delivery device, and it
shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to purchase or otherwise
obtain such items on behalf of a minor. It shall further be a violation for any
person to coerce or attempt to coerce a minor to illegally purchase or
otherwise obtain or use any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related device,
or electronic delivery device. This subsection shall not apply to minors
lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   E.   Use Of False Identification: It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false
form of identification, whether the identification is that of another person or
one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to
represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
   F.   Illegal Location: It shall be a violation of this chapter to sell or
provide any tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related device, or electronic
delivery device within three hundred fifty feet (350') of schools. (Ord. 122,
2nd Series, 9-11-2014)
3-6-12: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Notice: Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged violator
shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his or her
right to be heard on the accusation.
   B.   Hearings: If a person accused of violating this chapter so requests, a
hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be published and
provided to the accused violator.
   C.   Hearing Officer: The City Mayor, City Clerk and City Council President
shall serve as the Hearing Officer.
   D.   Decision: If the Hearing Officer determines that a violation of this
chapter did occur, that decision, along with the Hearing Officer's reasons for
finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under section
3-6-13 of this chapter, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be
provided to the accused violator. Likewise, if the Hearing Officer finds that
no violation occurred or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, such
findings shall be recorded and a copy provided to the acquitted accused
violator.
   E.   Appeals: Appeals of any decision made by the Hearing Officer shall be
filed in the District Court for the City in which the alleged violation
occurred.
   F.   Misdemeanor Prosecution: Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
City from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter. If the City elects to seek misdemeanor prosecution, no
administrative penalty shall be imposed.
   G.   Continued Violation: Each violation, and every day in which a violation
occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 122, 2nd
Series, 9-11-2014)
3-6-13: PENALTIES:
   A.   Licensees: Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or whose
employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged an administrative
fine of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for a first violation of this chapter;
two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second offense at the same licensed
premises within a twenty four (24) month period; and two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for a third or subsequent offense at the same location within a
twenty four (24) month period. In addition, after the third offense, the
license shall be suspended for not less than three (3) months.
   B.   Other Individuals: Other individuals, other than minors regulated by
subsection C of this section, found to be in violation of this chapter shall be
charged an administrative fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Minors: Minors found in unlawful possession of, or who unlawfully
purchase or attempt to purchase, tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related
devices, or electronic delivery devices, shall be fined thirty dollars
($30.00).
   D.   Misdemeanor: Nothing in this section shall prohibit the City from
seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of this chapter. (Ord.
122, 2nd Series, 9-11-2014)
3-6-14: EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES:
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco related devices, or electronic delivery devices to a minor as
part of a lawfully recognized religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremony. It
shall be an affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter for a person
to have reasonably relied on proof of age as described by State law. (Ord. 122,
2nd Series, 9-11-2014)
CHAPTER 7
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Intent And Purpose
3-7-2: Definitions
3-7-3: Prohibited Solicitation Practices
3-7-4: Application
3-7-5: Investigation; Approval Or Disapproval
3-7-6: Duration Of Contribution Solicitation Registration
3-7-7: Exclusions
3-7-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is not intended to in any way hinder, delay or interfere with
legitimate business or organizational activities. The Council finds, however,
that solicitors have used public streets and their direct contact with
residents of the City for the illegitimate solicitation practices of
harassment, nuisance, theft, deceit, or menacing, troublesome or unlawful
activities. This chapter is intended to ferret out and control: a) businesses
and organizations using solicitation as a means of concealing unlawful
activities; and, b) businesses and organizations which, though its activities
be lawful or even commendable, use such illegitimate practices in solicitation;
and, c) individual natural persons who, though they represent lawful businesses
and organizations, use such illegitimate solicitation practices. The Council
further finds that a large number of the residents of the City are employed as
their livelihood and means of support by manufacturing plants and other
businesses on shifts rotating between night and day, and to disturb them during
their sleeping hours for the purpose of solicitation is a source of nuisance or
even harassment and should be subject to control. (1988 Code § 6.34)
3-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this chapter shall have the meanings stated:
BUSINESS SOLICITATION: An attempt by a solicitor, engaging in transactions of
the same kind, to sell or distribute for a consideration any goods or services
primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, when either the
solicitor or person acting for him contacts the solicitee by telephone or in
person, other than at the established place of business of solicitor, except:
   A.   An attempted solicitation in which the solicitee personally knows the
identity of the solicitor, the name of the business firm or organization he
represents, and the identity or kinds of goods, services or things of value
offered; or
   B.   An attempted solicitation in which the solicitee has first initiated
the contact with the solicitor; or,
   C.   An attempted solicitation of a newspaper subscription in which the
solicitor is a minor child engaged in both the delivery and sale of the
newspaper; or,
   D.   An attempted solicitation for the sale of products of a farm or garden
occupied or cultivated by the solicitor, when facts of such occupancy or
cultivation are proven by the solicitor.
CONTRIBUTION SOLICITATION: An attempt by a solicitor to obtain money from a
solicitee for any cause or purpose, when either the solicitor or person acting
for him contacts the solicitee by telephone or in person other than at the
established place of meeting, business, service, or activity of the
organization represented by the solicitor, except:
   A.   An attempted solicitation in which the solicitee personally knows the
identity of the solicitor, the name of the organization he represents, and the
identity of the services performed or offered by the organization, or,
   B.   An attempted solicitation in which the solicitee has first initiated
the contact with the solicitor or the organization represented by him.
ESTABLISHED PLACE: Real estate in the City owned, leased on a month-to-month or
term-certain longer than thirty (30) days. The term includes a booth,
compartment, or area leased or assigned during and for the length of an event
or occasion.
GOODS: Any tangible thing of value including money if the selling price exceeds
the face value thereof. The term includes such chattels as are furnished or
used at the time of sale or subsequently in the modernization, rehabilitation,
repair, alteration, improvement or construction of real property so as to
become a part thereof whether or not severable therefrom. The term also
includes the following intangibles:
   A.   Property, casualty, health, accident and life insurance,
   B.   Corporate, mutual fund and limited partnership shares or interests,
and,
   C.   Merchandise certificates or coupons, redeemable in cash or in exchange
for goods or services, either in whole or in part, but not including such
merchandise certificates or coupons as are given or distributed as a gratuity.
SERVICES: Work, labor, or services of any kind.
SOLICITEE: The person solicited.
SOLICITOR: Any person making the solicitation, including such common terms as
"peddler", "transient merchant" and "canvasser". (1988 Code § 6.34)
3-7-3: PROHIBITED SOLICITATION PRACTICES:
   A.   Unlawful Purpose: It is unlawful for any solicitor to engage in
solicitation for any unlawful business or organizational purpose or activity.
   B.   Coercive Tactics: It is unlawful for any solicitor to practice
harassment, nuisance, theft, deceit, or menacing, troublesome or otherwise
unlawful activities during the course of solicitation.
   C.   Forced Entry: It is unlawful for any solicitor to enter, or attempt to
gain entrance, to residential premises displaying at such entrance a sign at
least three and three-fourths inches (33/4") long and three and three-fourths
inches (33/4") high with the words "Peddlers and Solicitors Prohibited" or
"Solicitors Prohibited" in type not smaller than 48-point.
   D.    Refusal To Leave Premises: It is unlawful for any solicitor to refuse
to leave the premises when requested by the owner, lessee, or person in charge
thereof.
   E.    Unlicensed/Unregistered: It is unlawful for any person to engage in
contribution solicitation without completion of licensing or registration as
herein provided.
   F.    Failure To Secure License: It is unlawful for any person to engage in
business solicitation without a license as herein provided. (1988 Code § 6.34)
3-7-4: APPLICATION:
Applications for licensing or registration shall contain the name and address
of the solicitor, the name and address of the business or organization for
which solicitations are sought and such other information as may reasonably be
required by the Council as a condition to registration or licensing or to
permit investigation into the applicant's background and past solicitation
practices. No application for a business solicitor's license shall be complete
unless it is accompanied by a valid and current license issued by the county in
which such solicitor proposes to engage in solicitation. (1988 Code § 6.34)
3-7-5: INVESTIGATION; APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL:
   A.    Investigation: All applications for licensing or registration shall be
immediately referred to the Chief of Police, and by him or other person acting
in his stead, investigated as to the truth thereof. The Chief of Police shall
have five (5) business days within which to investigate and make a
recommendation thereon.
   B.    Approval; Issuance, Fee: If he finds no past history of the applicant
indicating violations similar to those declared unlawful in this chapter, he
shall recommend issuing a license or approving registration, as the case may
be, and the City Clerk shall forthwith advise the applicant. The City Clerk
shall issue a license, upon payment of the fee therefor, to the approved
applicant for business solicitation, and shall approve the completion of
registration by the applicant for a contribution solicitor.
   C.    Disapproval; Appeal: If the Chief of Police finds a past history of
the applicant indicating violations similar to those declared unlawful in this
chapter, he shall recommend denial of the license or registration. In all
matters of recommended denial the applicant shall be forthwith advised thereof,
and the application shall be referred to the Council and considered by it at
its next regular or special meeting occurring more than ten (10) days
thereafter. The applicant shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard at such
meeting. (1988 Code § 6.34)
3-7-6: DURATION OF CONTRIBUTION SOLICITATION REGISTRATION:
Registration of contribution solicitation shall expire sixty (60) days after
registration is approved. (1988 Code § 6.34)
3-7-7: EXCLUSIONS:
The City may exclude certain classes of solicitor events from compliance with
licensing or registration provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that
such exclusion shall not extend to the prohibited solicitation practices set
forth in subsections 3-7-3A through D, inclusive, of this chapter. (1988 Code §
6.34)
CHAPTER 8
TREE SERVICE
SECTION:
3-8-1: License Required
3-8-2: License Requirements And Regulations
3-8-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of trimming, removing
or treating trees for others, or selling products purporting to arrest, impede
or cure tree diseases, without a license therefor from the City. (1988 Code §
6.35)
3-8-2: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Qualifications Of Applicant: No tree service license shall be granted
to any person unless he can adequately demonstrate that he possesses the
necessary skill, knowledge and ability to scientifically perform the service,
and that he owns or has under his control sufficient equipment to safely and
properly perform the service.
   B.   Insurance Required: No license shall issue until the applicant has
filed with the City Clerk a policy or certificate of public liability insurance
for coverage concurrent with the license term with limits of at least fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for injury to one person, one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) for each occurrence, and ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) for property damage. (1988 Code § 6.35)
CHAPTER 9
PLUMBERS
SECTION:
3-9-1: Licensing Requirements
3-9-2: Bonding And Insurance
3-9-3: Permits Required
3-9-4: Master Plumber Required
3-9-1: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall engage in the work or business of plumbing or the installation
of water or sewer pipes in the City unless he or she shall have a license, or
works as an agent of a person with a license, from the Minnesota State
Commissioner of Health.(Ord. 80, 2nd Series, 7-12-2005; amd. Ord. 188, - -2021;
Ord. 190, - - 2021)
3-9-2: BONDING AND INSURANCE:
Plumbers working within the City shall maintain an insurance certificate for
public and product liability with limits of at least fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) per person, one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per
occurrence, and ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) property damage. Also,
plumbers working within the City shall maintain worker’s compensation coverage
per Minnesota Statutes 176.182 and 176.181 subd. 2.(Ord. 80, 2nd Series, 7-12-
2005; amd. Ord. 188, - -2021; Ord. 190, - -2021)
3-9-3: PERMITS REQUIRED:
All plumbers working within the City shall file necessary excavation and
plumbing permits as required by this Code prior to commencing work.(Ord. 80,
2nd Series, 7-12-2005; amd. Ord. 188, - -2021; Ord. 190, - -2021)
3-9-4: MASTER PLUMBER REQUIRED:
Only a master plumber shall work on City taps within the City of Sleepy Eye.
The City may approve other contractors to work on City taps within the City of
Sleepy Eye.(Ord. 80, 2nd Series, 7-12-2005; amd. Ord. 188, - -2021; Ord. 190, -
-2021)
CHAPTER 10
MOBILE FOOD UNITS AND FOOD CARTS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Purpose
3-10-2: Definitions
3-10-3: License Requirement
3-10-4: Conditions Of Licensing
3-10-5: Suspension Or Revocation Of A License
3-10-6: Violations
3-10-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is designed to permit the reasonable use of mobile food units
while preventing any adverse consequences to residents, businesses and public
property. (Ord. 166, 2nd Series, 4-14-2020)
3-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms when used for this license shall have the
following meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
 
FOOD   A food and beverage service establishment that is a nonmotorized vehicle that is
CART:  self-propelled by the operator.
       A.   A self-contained food service operation, located in a motorized, wheeled or
MOBILE towed vehicle, that is readily movable without disassembling and that is used to
FOOD   store, prepare, display, or serve food intended for individual portion service;
UNIT:  or
       B.   A mobile food unit as defined in Minnesota Statutes Section 157.15,
       Subdivision. 9. (Ord. 166, 2nd Series, 4-14-2020)
 
3-10-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENT:
   A.   License fees. Fees for annual licenses are set forth in the City’s fee
schedule.
   B.   Non-Transferable License. A Mobile Food Unit or Food Cart license is
nontransferable. Proof of license shall be displayed at all times in the Mobile
Food Unit or Food Cart.
   C.   License Application Requirements. It is unlawful for any person to
operate a Mobile Food Unit or a Food Cart in the city without first obtaining a
license from the city. An application for a license shall be filed, along with
the required fee, with the City Clerk. The applicant must be made by the owner
of the Mobile Food Unit or Food Cart. The application shall be made on a form
supplied by the city and shall contain information requested by the City,
including the following:
      1.   Name of the owner and operator, if different than the owner, of the
mobile food unit or food cart and permanent and temporary home and business
addresses;
      2.   The applicant’s full legal name, date of birth, driver’s license
number, phone number and email address;
      3.   A description of the nature of the business, the goods to be sold
and the license plate number and description for any motorized or unmotorized
vehicle to be used in conjunction with the activity;
      4.   The name, address and contact information for the business with
which the mobile food unit or food cart is affiliated, if applicable; and
      5.   Copy of the license issued to the Mobile Food Unit or a Food Cart by
one of the following: US Department of Agriculture, MN Department of Health, or
Brown Nicollet Environmental Health.
   D.   A Mobile Food Unit or Food Cart shall not be required to obtain the
written permit under Sleepy Eye City Code Chapter
7-1-3-A; however, it shall be subject to all other requirements in said
chapter. (Ord. 166, 2nd Series, 4-14-2020)
3-10-4: CONDITIONS OF LICENSING:
A Mobile Food Unit or Food Cart may only operate if compliant with the
following:
   A.   Hold Harmless. If the Mobile Food Unit or Food Cart will be located in
a city park, on city property, or in the public right-of-way, a signed
statement that the licensee shall hold harmless the city and its officers and
employees, and shall indemnify the city and its officers and employees for any
claims for damage to property or injury to persons which may be occasioned by
any activity carried on under the terms of the license.
   B.   Performance Standards. A Mobile Food Unit or Food Cart licensee is
subject to the following performance standards:
      1.   Applicable license fee shall be paid and license obtained.
      2.   A Mobile Food Unit or Food Cart shall be operated in strict
compliance with the laws, rules and regulations of the United States and State
of Minnesota.
      3.   Wastewater may not be drained into City storm water drains.
      4.   A Mobile Food Unit or Food Cart shall provide and maintain at least
one clearly designated waste container for customer use per each Food Cart or
Mobile Food Unit. The operator of a Mobile Food Unit or Food Cart is
responsible for daily removal of trash, litter, recycling and refuse. Public
trash cans shall not be used to dispose of waste generated by the operation.
The operator shall provide a garbage receptacle with a tightfitting lid. The
receptacle shall be easily accessible for customer use.
      5.   A Mobile Food Unit must provide an independent power supply that is
screened from public view and that complies with pertinent City noise
regulations.
      6.   A Mobile Food Unit or Food cart may operate between 7 a.m. and 11
p.m. and must not create any unnecessary noise, disturbances or disrupt public
traffic or safety in any way. An exemption to hours may be authorized by the
City Manager on a per event basis.
      7.   Operators must maintain cleanliness around their Mobile Food Unit or
Food Cart and the mobile food unit or food cart must be kept in good repair and
have a neat appearance.
      8.   A Mobile Food Unit or Food Cart operator must be licensed by one of
the following: US Department of Agriculture, MN Department of Health, or Brown
Nicollet Environmental Health. The license must be posted on the mobile food
unit or food cart.
      9.   A Mobile Food Unit or Food Cart stored within the City must comply
with all applicable zoning ordinance requirements.
   C.   Practices Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person engaged in the
business of a Mobile Food Unit or Food Cart operation to do any of the
following:
      1.   Call attention to that licensee’s business by crying out, blowing a
horn, ringing a bell, loud music or by any loud or unusual noise, or by use of
any amplifying device;
      2.   Fail to display proof of license and produce valid identification
when requested;
      3.   Allow a Mobile Food Unit or Food Cart to remain on the property of
another when asked to leave;
      4.   Obstruct the ingress or egress from commercial buildings during the
building hours of operation;
      5.   A Mobile Food Unit or Food Cart shall not operate as a drive up or
drive-thru window;
      6.   LP tank, if any, must be affixed to the Mobile Food Unit and cannot
be placed in the street;
      7.   Claim endorsements by the City; or
      8.   Conduct business in any manner as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of a specific individual or the general public. (Ord. 166,
2nd Series, 4-14-2020)
3-10-5: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE:
A license issued pursuant to this chapter may be suspended by the City if the
licensee has violated the terms of this chapter, or is otherwise conducting
business in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace, fraudulent
conduct, or any other conduct that is prohibited by local, state or federal
laws or regulations. Falsification of information required for a license is
also grounds for denial, suspension or revocation of a license. The license
shall be automatically revoked if the licensee does not file an appeal pursuant
to this Section. When taking action on any license issued under this Section,
the City shall provide the licensee with verbal or written notice of the
violation. The notice shall inform the licensee of its right to be heard before
the City Council. The notice shall also inform the licensee that the license
shall be automatically revoked if no appeal is filed within twenty-one (21)
days of the date of the notice by the city. Verbal notice shall be confirmed
within five (5) days by a mailed written notice to the licensee. The City
Council shall not conduct a hearing on a suspension or revocation unless a
request is made by the next City Council meeting. No City Council resolution or
other notice calling for a hearing shall be required. (Ord. 166, 2nd Series, 4-
14-2020)
3-10-6: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of any term of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 166, 2nd
Series, 4-14-2020)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-1-1: Prohibited
4-1-2: Exceptions
4-1-1: PROHIBITED:
All burning of leaves, vegetative fuels, structures and refuse is prohibited
within the City at all times and in all seasons. Burn barrels, even if approved
by the Department of Natural Resources, may not be used in the City. (Ord. 28,
2nd Series, 7-6-1995)
4-1-2: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Controlled Burns Of Fire Departments: Nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit Fire Departments from burning structures within the City if complying
with the DNR rules for training fires nor from conducting controlled burns of
grass and weed vegetation on City-owned property.
   B.   Campfires, Grills Or Other Devices: Also excepted are campfires and
fire contained in a charcoal grill, camp stove, or other device designed for
the purpose of cooking or heating. A "campfire" is defined as a fire set for
cooking, warming, or ceremonial purposes, which is not more than three feet
(3') in diameter by three feet (3') high, and has had the ground five feet (5')
from the base of the fire cleared of all combustible material. (Ord. 28, 2nd
Series, 7-6-1995)
CHAPTER 2
SHADE TREE DISEASE CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisance Declared
4-2-2: Abatement Of Nuisance
4-2-3: Assessment
4-2-4: Penalty
4-2-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any elm, oak or ash tree infected to any degree with Dutch elm disease, oak
wilt or emerald ash borer is hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 101, 2nd
Series, 2-9-2010)
4-2-2: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
The Council may order the abatement of any such nuisance and cause the infected
tree to be sprayed, removed, burned or otherwise treated to destroy and prevent
as fully as possible the spread of a shade tree disease. Any tree showing signs
of decline and is infected with a shade tree disease shall be removed under the
same guidelines as a nuisance tree.
The cost of testing the tree for infection of a shade tree disease shall be
treated the same as the cost of abatement, as detailed in the remaining
sections of this title and chapter. (Ord. 101, 2nd Series, 2-9-2010; amd. Ord.
163, 2nd Series, 11-12-2019)
4-2-3: ASSESSMENT:
The cost of such abatement shall be paid by the City when the trees are on the
boulevards or other property owned by the City, and the cost shall be assessed
against the property owner when the trees are on privately owned property. If
the assessment is not paid within sixty (60) days, the City Clerk shall certify
the amount to the County Auditor for collection with other assessments and
taxes. When the City bears the cost of tree removal, the adjacent property
owner will bear the cost of tree replacement taken from an acceptable list of
trees chosen by the City. (Ord. 101, 2nd Series, 2-9-2010)
4-2-4: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful or
performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act when such
failure is prohibited or declared unlawful by a Code adopted by reference by
this chapter, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof. (1988
Code § 10.99)
CHAPTER 3
BLIGHT CONDITIONS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Legislative Findings
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Garbage
4-3-4: Building Maintenance And Appearance
4-3-5: Dumpsters
4-3-6: Motor Vehicles, Equipment, Junk
4-3-7: Vermin
4-3-8: Notice And Abatement
4-3-9: Violations
4-3-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS:
   A.   The City Council makes the following findings:
      1.   Any accumulation of any garbage, rubbish, offal, refuse, the body of
a dead animal, or other litter on any property, or in a manner that it may be
carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer,
parkway, or other property, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, as it
is a direct threat to the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of this
City, and it detracts from the surrounding neighborhood because it: a) is
unsightly, b) decreases adjoining landowners' and occupants' enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood, and c) adversely affects property values and
neighborhood patterns.
      2.   Poorly maintained buildings, fences and structures, and the
prolonged presence of dumpsters filled with construction debris is a growing
problem of concern and a direct threat to the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of this City. The Council finds these matters to be public nuisances
and adopts this chapter in an effort to regulate them.
      3.   Buildings, fences, and other structures that have been so poorly
maintained that their physical condition and appearance detract from the
surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances because they: a)
are unsightly, b) decrease adjoining landowners' and occupants' enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood, and c) adversely affect property values and
neighborhood patterns.
      4.   Dumpsters on residential property are necessary for temporary
projects such as remodeling, clean up, landscaping, renovations and
construction activities. However, the extended presence of dumpsters on
residential property may cause aesthetic, health and safety concerns especially
for adjacent property owners and, as such, are declared to be public nuisances.
The Council determines it is in the best interests of the public's health,
safety, comfort, peace, tranquility and general welfare to limit the use of
dumpsters on residential property.
      5.   The maintenance of unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped or
junked automobiles not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other
vehicles, machinery, implements, equipment, junk or personal property of any
kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was
manufactured is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the public
health and safety. Unsheltered storage of these property items throughout the
City tend to impede traffic in the streets, interfere with the enjoyment of and
reduce the value of private property, invite plundering, create fire hazards
and other safety and health hazards to children as well as adults, interfere
with the comfort and well-being of the public, and create, extend and aggravate
urban blight. As such, the Council determines that, in order to protect the
public health, safety and welfare, such conditions must be regulated, abated or
prohibited.
      6.   Property that attracts or harbors vermin, or an owner, occupant, or
possessor of property who fails to cause such vermin to be remediated or
removed from such property in a safe and sanitary manner, is a direct threat to
the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of this City and is hereby
declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. (Ord. 140, 2nd Series, 10-10-
2017)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the City Council establishes the following
definitions:
BLIGHT OFFICER: Shall be the Chief of Police for the City of Sleepy Eye, any
peace officer in the City of Sleepy Eye, or an individual appointed to said
position by the City Council.
DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: Shall be the Sleepy Eye Police Department or
City Attorney for the City of Sleepy Eye.
DUMPSTER: Shall mean any portable container (typically open on top),
compactors, roll-offs or recycling containers used for the collection or
storage of waste, whether from active and ongoing permitted construction
projects, house cleans, or other use.
GARBAGE: Shall mean trash including, but not limited to, waste material,
discarded matter, wasted or spoiled food, paper, cans, bottles, matter that is
wrecked, scattered, or destroyed, or material or matter that is no longer
useful.
JUNK: Shall mean worn out or discarded material including, but not limited to,
household appliances or parts thereof, tools, discarded building materials, tin
cans, broken glass, broken furniture, mattresses, box springs, boxes, crates,
cardboard, tires or any other unsightly debris the accumulation of which has an
adverse effect upon neighborhood or City property values, health, safety or
general welfare.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Shall mean every vehicle which is self-propelled or at some
point in time was self-propelled.
OPEN SPACE: Shall mean an area that is visible by surrounding properties or
visible by the public from a public right-of-way, including but not limited to
a street, alley, or sidewalk.
PROPERTY: Shall mean any property within the City of Sleepy Eye.
RUBBISH AND REFUSE: Shall mean non-garbage solid waste including, but not
limited to, barrels, cans, cardboard, glass, paper, plastic, sweepings,
clippings, ashes, rags, used or discarded building materials, and pallets.
VERMIN: Shall mean any non-domesticated animal, insect, or organism that is
potentially distributive or injurious to the health or comfort of any persons,
and includes but is not limited to mice, rats, pigeons, cockroaches, and other
potential vectors. (Ord. 140, 2nd Series, 10-10-2017)
4-3-3: GARBAGE:
   A.   No person shall accumulate any garbage, rubbish, offal, refuse, the
body of a dead animal, or other litter on any property, whether or not such
accumulation is in a proper container for collection.
   B.   No person shall cast, place, sweep, or deposit anywhere within the City
any garbage, rubbish, offal, refuse, body of a dead animal, or other litter in
any such manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements upon any
street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway, or other property. (Ord. 140, 2nd
Series, 10-10-2017)
4-3-4: BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE:
   A.   No person shall keep or permit to remain a building, fence, or other
structure that conforms with any one of the following conditions:
      1.   Any part of any exterior surface has deterioration, holes, breaks,
gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      2.   Any exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied is not maintained in order to avoid noticeable deterioration of the
finish. Any wall or other exterior surface that has peeling, cracked, chipped
or otherwise deteriorated surface finish on more than twenty five percent (25%)
of:
         a.   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         b.   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
      3.   Glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, are broken or
cracked, or screens are torn or separated from moldings.
      4.   Exterior doors and shutters are not hung properly and do not have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      5.   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows, and
similar projections are not kept in good repair and are not free from cracks
and defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      6.   Roof surfaces are not tight and have defects that admit water.
      7.   Roof drainage systems are not secured and hung properly.
      8.   Chimneys, antennae, air vents, and other similar projections are not
structurally sound and are not in good repair. These projections are not
secured properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      9.   Foundations are not structurally sound and are in bad repair. (Ord.
140, 2nd Series, 10-10-2017)
4-3-5: DUMPSTERS:
   A.   A dumpster may be located on a property during the execution of a
building permit. A dumpster must be removed within five (5) calendar days of
the expiration of a building permit, passage of all final inspections or
issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever is later.
   B.   No person shall keep a dumpster on a property longer than the time-
frame prescribed in this section. This shall not limit a person's ability to
keep a dumpster on a property when there are regularly-scheduled weekly pickups
for the contents of the dumpster. (Ord. 140, 2nd Series, 10-10-2017)
4-3-6: MOTOR VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT, JUNK:
   A.   No person shall place, park, permit to remain, store or leave upon an
open area of a property any motor vehicle that conforms with any one of the
following conditions:
      1.   The motor vehicle does not have a valid current motor vehicle
license affixed to it.
      2.   The motor vehicle is unusable or inoperable because of lack of, or
defects in component parts.
      3.   The motor vehicle is unusable or inoperable because of damage from
collision, deterioration, or having been cannibalized.
      4.   The motor vehicle is beyond repair and therefore not intended for
future use as motor vehicle.
      5.   The motor vehicle is being retained on the property for possible use
of salvageable parts.
   B.   No person shall maintain unsheltered storage of any other vehicles,
machinery, implements, equipment, junk or personal property of any kind which
is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured.
   C.   The owner or possessor of a motor vehicle or of any other vehicles,
machinery, implements, equipment, junk or personal property described in this
section shall be responsible to remove the motor vehicle, other vehicle,
machinery, implement, equipment, junk or personal property to a duly licensed
junk yard or other authorized place of deposit or storage. In the event the
owner or possessor cannot be located, then it shall be the responsibility of
the owner of the property to remove it from the property.
   D.   This section shall not apply to the owner or occupier of a property
that sells fifteen (15) or more vehicles, at said property, in any given
calendar year.
   E.   No person shall place, park, permit to remain, or store a motor vehicle
on a surface that is dirt or grass-covered. This subsection shall not be
applicable during snow emergencies.
   F.   No person shall place, park, permit to remain, or store a motor vehicle
in the front setback (front yard) of a property, unless the driveway or parking
area is approved by the City Council. (Ord. 140, 2nd Series, 10-10-2017)
4-3-7: VERMIN:
   A.   No person shall create, cause, permit, or fail to remediate or remove
any condition on such property that attracts or harbors vermin. No person shall
allow or permit any accumulation of material that harbors or attracts vermin.
   B.   No person shall fail to cause such vermin to be removed from the
property in a safe and sanitary manner. (Ord. 140, 2nd Series, 10-10-2017)
4-3-8: NOTICE AND ABATEMENT:
   A.   Whenever a person fails to comply with this chapter, the Blight Officer
shall order the owner or occupant thereof of a property to remove the same at
the owner or occupant's expense within a time not to exceed ten (10) calendar
days, which exact time shall be specified in said notice. The Blight Officer,
in his sole discretion, may establish the time limit to be less than ten (10)
calendar days, but may not establish the time limit to be less than five (5)
calendar days. Said notice shall be signed by the Blight Officer, shall be
addressed to at least one owner or occupant of the property on which said non-
compliance is found, and shall contain a brief description of the non-
compliance. Said notice shall contain the address of the property upon which
said non-compliance is found, and setting forth that, unless the non-compliance
is abated or removed within said time, the Blight Officer will issue a ticket
and/or seek a civil court order which may cause the City to abate or remove the
non- compliance at the expense of the owner of the property.
   B.   The notice shall be served by a peace officer by delivery of a copy
thereof to at least one owner or occupant, who must be of legal age, of such
property. If the owner or occupant of the property is unknown or absent with no
representative or agent upon whom notice can be served, then the peace officer
shall post said notice on the front door of the property or in an otherwise
conspicuous place on the property described in the notice.
   C.   After the time specified in the notice has elapsed, the Blight Officer
shall investigate to determine if the failure to comply with this chapter has
been removed or abated from the property. Additional time may be granted by the
Blight Officer, in his/her sole discretion, where extraneous/special
circumstances or a bona fide effort to remove or eliminate said non-compliance
is in progress. If the non-compliance is not removed or abated from the
property within the time specified in the notice and no additional time has
been granted, the Blight Officer shall notify the designated enforcement agency
for the City and direct that a ticket or a civil summons and complaint to
appear in court be issued.
   D.   Any owner or occupier of a property who fails to remove and abate any
non-compliance of this chapter after proper notice, shall be liable to the City
for all expenses incurred in the removal and abatement of the non-compliance.
The City shall have the right to recover all such costs and a lien may be
imposed and charged against the property on which the non-compliance was
located, and the City Clerk shall at the time of certifying City taxes to the
County Auditor, certify the aforesaid costs to the County Auditor, as other
taxes are certified. (Ord. 140, 2nd Series, 10-10-2017)
4-3-9: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   No owner or occupier of a property, after notice and after the time
allowed in said notice has lapsed, as described in section
4-3-8 of this chapter, shall fail to abate or remove from said property a
condition that does not comply with this chapter. Said failure shall constitute
a violation of this chapter. Said failure shall constitute a separate violation
of this chapter for each notice given pursuant to section
4-3-8 of this chapter.
   B.   A violation under this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. The fine amounts
shall be as follows:
      1.   One violation within three (3) years: Two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00).
      2.   Two (2) violations within three (3) years: Five hundred dollars
($500.00).
      3.   Three (3) or more violations within three (3) years: One thousand
dollars ($1,000.00).
   C.   Violation of this chapter may involve a civil proceeding under
Minnesota Statutes section 463, in the discretion of the Blight Officer and
designated enforcement agency for the City. (Ord. 140, 2nd Series, 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC DANCES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required; Fee
3-4-3: Application And License Requirements
3-4-4: Dance Regulations
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
stated:
PUBLIC DANCE: Any dance wherein the public may participate by payment, directly
or indirectly, of an admission fee or price for dancing, which fee may be in
the form of a club membership, or payment of money, directly or indirectly.
PUBLIC DANCING PLACE: Any room, place, or space open to public patronage in
which dancing, wherein the public may participate, is carried on and to which
admission may be had by the public by payment, directly or indirectly, of an
admission fee or price for dancing. (1988 Code § 6.30)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to operate a public
dancing place, or hold a public dance, without a license therefor from the
City. (1988 Code § 6.30)
   B.   Fee: An application fee in an amount as periodically established by the
City Council shall be paid to the City of Sleepy Eye. (Ord. 01-2003, 1-14-2003)
3-4-3: APPLICATION AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application Required: A verified application for a dance license shall
be filed with the City and shall specify the names and addresses of the person,
committee or organization that is to hold the dance, time and place thereof,
and the area of the dance floor. (1988 Code § 6.30)
   B.   Criminal Record Statement: All applicants shall state whether or not
they have been convicted of a felony, gross misdemeanor, or violation of any
public dance laws within the past five (5) years. No license shall be issued to
any person who has been so convicted. (Ord. 01-2003, 1-14-2003)
   C.   Location: No license shall be granted by the City for any place having
so-called "private apartments" or "private rooms" furnished or used for any
purposes other than a legitimate business purpose which adjoins such dancing
place, or which may be reached by stairs, elevators, or passageway leading from
such dancing place. Nor shall a license be granted for any place which is not
properly ventilated and equipped with necessary toilets, washrooms or lighting
facilities.
   D.   Investigation And Report: Applications may be referred by the City to
the Chief of Police for investigation and report prior to being acted upon by
the City. (1988 Code § 6.30; amd. Ord. 01-2003, 1-14-2003)
   E.   City Manager's Office To Act: The City Manager's Office shall act upon
all dance license applications.
   F.   Officer In Attendance: At least one officer of the law who is approved
by the Chief of Police and employed and paid by the dance license recipient
shall be present at every public dance during the entire time said dance is
being held. For purposes of this subsection, the term "officer of the law"
means any person who is a full time or part-time peace officer or reserve
officer. In the discretion of the City or Chief of Police, more than one such
peace officer may be required. An exemption waiving the requirement that a
police officer be present may be granted if approved by the Police Chief and
the City. (Ord. 01-2003, 1-14-2003)
   G.   License Posted: The dance license shall be posted in the public dancing
place and shall state the name of the licensee, the amount paid therefor, and
the time and place licensed. The license shall also state that the licensee is
responsible for the manner of conducting the dance.
   H.   Under Age Persons: No license shall be issued to any applicant under
the age of eighteen (18) years. (1988 Code § 6.30)
3-4-4: DANCE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Obscenity And Immorality Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
dance, or for a licensee to permit or suffer any person to dance at any public
dance in an indecent or immodest manner. It is also unlawful for any person at
a public dance to speak in a rude, boisterous, obscene, or indecent manner or
for any licensee to suffer or permit any person so to act or speak in any
public dancing place.
   B.   Illumination: Every public dancing place shall be brightly illuminated
while in public use, and dancing therein while the lights are extinguished,
dimmed or turned low so as to give imperfect illumination is prohibited.
   C.   Certain Persons Prohibited: No licensee shall permit any unmarried
person under the age of sixteen (16) years, unless said unmarried person is
accompanied by his parent or guardian, to remain in a public dancing place. Nor
shall any licensee permit any intoxicated person, or other person who persists
in violating the law, to be or remain in a public dancing place.
   D.   Hours Of Dancing: No public dance shall be held on Sunday between the
hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon. No public
dance shall be held on any day between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (1988 Code § 6.30)
CHAPTER 4
RENTAL HOUSING
SECTION:
4-4-1: Legislative Finding
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Exemption
4-4-4: License Required
4-4-5: Application
4-4-6: License Expiration
4-4-7: Inspection
4-4-8: Procedure
4-4-9: Fees
4-4-10: Denial, Suspension, Revocation
4-4-11: Appeals
4-4-12: Space And Structure Standards
4-4-13: Occupancy Standards
4-4-14: Parking
4-4-15: Written Notices
4-4-16: Injunctive Relief
4-4-17: Criminal Penalties
4-4-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDING:
It is hereby found that there exists in the City of Sleepy Eye structures used
for human habitation which are not owner occupied and are now, or may become in
the future, substandard with respect to structure, equipment, or maintenance,
and further that such conditions, together with inadequate provisions for light
and air, insufficient protection against fire hazards, lack of proper heating,
unsanitary conditions, and overcrowding, constitute a threat to public health,
safety, and welfare. It is hereby found therefore that adequate protection of
public health, safety and welfare requires the establishment and enforcement of
minimum rental housing maintenance standards. (Ord. 147, 7-9-2019)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this chapter shall have the following meanings:
 
DWELLING:                      Any structure designed or intended to be used
                               primarily for residential purposes.
                               Any specific area, space, or rooms in any
                               building, structure or enclosure or any part
DWELLING UNIT:                 thereof, including any mobile home, rented or
                               leased, or offered for rent or lease, by any
                               person(s) to any other person(s) for use for
                               residential purposes by such other person(s).
                               Space in a structure for living, sleeping,
                               eating or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet
HABITABLE SPACE (ROOM):        compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility
                               space, and similar areas, are not considered
                               habitable space.
                               A building, structure, enclosure, or any part
                               thereof used as, maintained as, advertised as,
LONG-TERM HOTEL DWELLING UNIT: or held out to be a place where sleeping
                               accommodations are furnished to the public and
                               furnishing accommodations for periods of more
                               than one week.
                               Any specific area, space, or room in any
                               building, structure or enclosure or any part
                               thereof, within a dwelling used or held out to
ROOMING HOUSE DWELLING UNIT:   be a place where sleeping accommodations are
                               furnished to the public as regular roomers for
                               periods of one week or more. (Ord. 147, 7-9-
                               2019)
 
4-4-3: EXEMPTION:
This chapter does not apply to the following:
   A.   any hotel or motel room, other than a long-term hotel dwelling unit or
rooming house dwelling unit;
   B.   dwelling unit that has been sold on a contract for deed, so long as the
vendee occupies the property and the sale document used to memorialize the sale
is recorded with the Brown County Recorder’s Office and a copy is provided to
the City; and
   C.   facility licensed by the State of Minnesota or any agency of the United
States government, or to a dwelling which, by reason of federal or state law or
regulation, are subject to annual agency-inspection of 100% of the rental
units. Proof of said license and annual inspections shall be provided to the
rental inspector to verify that this chapter does not apply. (Ord. 147, 7-9-
2019)
4-4-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, as the owner, manager or other person having
control of any dwelling, to lease, rent or permit to be leased or rented or
occupied, any dwelling within the City without first having obtained a rental
license for such dwelling from the City of Sleepy Eye.
Fees for a license shall be established via resolution of the City Council.
Each license issued pursuant to this chapter may be transferred to another
party, provided that any licensee shall give written notice of such transfer to
the City at least forty eight (48) hours prior to the transfer of the licensed
premises, which notice shall include the name and address of the transferee. A
fee for said transfer of license shall be established via resolution of the
City Council.
Upon obtaining a rental license, the owner of the dwelling is responsible for
providing a copy of the rental license to the tenant(s). (Ord. 147, 7-9-2019)
4-4-5: APPLICATION:
Applications for a rental license shall be made to the City Clerk using forms
furnished by the City for that purpose. Applications shall include the
following information:
   A.   Name, address, and phone number (and email address, if any) of the
owner;
   B.   Name, address, and phone number (and email address, if any) of the
designated local property manager, if any;
   C.   Street address of the rental property;
   D.   Number of units; and
   E.   Square footage of each dwelling unit and the maximum number of
occupants for each dwelling unit. (Ord. 147, 7-9-2019)
4-4-6: LICENSE EXPIRATION:
Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire two years from the
date the license was issued. (Ord. 147, 7-9-2019)
4-4-7: INSPECTION:
Initial inspections of all units hereunder will occur within the first year
after the effective date of this chapter. Properties will have scheduled re-
inspections on a schedule to be determined by the City. All properties shall be
inspected by the City at least once every two years. The City shall have the
right to make additional inspections of all properties based on complaints of
received. Licenses can be revoked at any time on grounds as set out in this
chapter. (Ord. 147, 7-9-2019)
4-4-8: PROCEDURE:
Upon receipt of a completed application, such application to be provided by the
City of Sleepy Eye, for any rental license, the City Clerk shall forward a copy
of such application to the rental inspector, whereupon the inspector shall,
within ten (10) days after receiving such application, inspect the dwelling to
be licensed to determine whether such dwelling complies with the provisions of
applicable codes. No rental license shall be issued by the City unless the
dwelling complies with provisions of this Code which pertain to such dwelling.
In addition, no license shall be issued if the dwelling does not meet the
requirements of this chapter. An inspection shall be completed with every
license application.
Period allowed for correction of inspection violations shall be set by the
rental inspector but shall not exceed thirty (30) days unless such violations
threaten life and health which shall not exceed ten (10) days. The rental
inspector shall notify the owner and property manager, if any, as named in the
application, shall be notified of inspection violations via first class mail or
hand delivery to the address in the application.
The City shall notify the owner if a license is denied, or the license is being
suspended, revoked, or not renewed. A suspension or revocation shall take
effect thirty-five (35) calendar days after the date of the notification order,
or at such late date as set out in the notification. (Ord. 147, 7-9-2019)
4-4-9: FEES:
All fees and penalties associated with rental house and inspections, including
but not limited to license fees, penalties for reinspection, fees for a failure
to keep scheduled appointments, penalties for willful neglect of licensing
application, penalties for failure to comply with inspection requirements, or
penalties related to immediate health and safety violations, shall be set by
resolution of the City Council of Sleepy Eye.
Failure to pay required fees will result in the City assessing such amount to
the property through the County.
Violations of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 147, 7-9-2019)
4-4-10: DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION:
   A.   The City may deny the issuance or renewal of a rental license for the
following reasons:
      1.   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
City’s form, or provides false or misleading information;
      2.   The applicant has real estate taxes and/or special assessments
levied against the rental property and/or other fines, fees, charges or other
financial claims owed to the City or the State of Minnesota that have not been
paid;
      3.   The rental property or any rental unit fails a property inspection
in the opinion of the rental inspector.
      4.   The applicant has outstanding building, fire or property maintenance
standards violations, fines, penalties or delinquent utility charges owed to
the City.
      5.   A development contract or land use requirement that restricts rental
units.
   B.   An applicant who is denied a rental license will receive written notice
of the denial and reasons for the denial and may request a hearing before the
City Council pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 147, 7-9-2019)
4-4-11: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by a fee or penalty or loss of license issued under this
chapter may file a petition with the City Clerk within ten (10) days after the
issuance of such decision.
   A.   Upon receipt of the petition, the City Manager, or his designee, shall
set a date for a hearing and give the petitioner at least five (5) days prior
written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing.
   B.   At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to show
cause why the fee, penalty or loss of license should be modified or withdrawn.
The petitioner may be represented by counsel or petitioners of choosing at his/
her expense.
   C.   The hearing shall be conducted by the City Manager.
   D.   The decision of the City Manager may be appealed to the City Council. A
petitioner seeking a decision of the City Council must file a written petition
with the City Clerk within ten (10) days of the decision of the City Manager.
The matter will thereupon be placed on the City Council agenda as soon as is
practical. The City Council shall review the findings of fact and conclusions
to determine whether they were correct. The City Council may revise, reverse or
modify or affirm the decision of the City Manager. (Ord. 147, 7-9-2019)
4-4-12: SPACE AND STRUCTURE STANDARDS:
   A.   Every dwelling unit other than a long-term hotel dwelling unit or a
rooming house dwelling unit shall have a room or portion of a room in which
food may be prepared and cooked, which shall have adequate circulation area,
and which shall be equipped with the following:
      1.   A kitchen sink in good working condition and properly connected to a
water supply system which is approved by the City of Sleepy Eye and which
provides at all times an adequate amount of heated and unheated running water
under pressure, and which is connected to a sewer system approved by the City
of Sleepy Eye.
      2.   Cabinets or shelves for the storage of eating, drinking and cooking
equipment and utensils and of food that does not in ordinary summer condition
require refrigeration for safe keeping; and a counter or table for food
preparation; said cabinets or shelves and counter or table shall be of sound
construction furnished with surfaces that are easily cleanable and that will
not impart any toxic or harmful effect to food.
      3.   A stove, or similar device, for cooking food, and a refrigerator, or
similar device, for the safe storage of food at temperatures less than forty
degrees Fahrenheit (40°F) but more than thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F)
under ordinary maximum summer conditions, which are properly installed with all
necessary connection for safe, sanitary and efficient operation; provided that
such stove, refrigerator, or similar devices need not be installed when a
dwelling unit is not occupied and when the occupant is expected to provide same
on occupancy.
   B.   Within every dwelling unit, other than a long-term hotel dwelling unit
or rooming house dwelling unit, there shall be provided a water closet,
lavatory sink, and bathing facilities, equipped as follows:
      1.   A non-habitable room which affords privacy to a person within said
room and which is equipped with a flush water closet in good working condition.
Said flush water closet shall be equipped with easily cleanable surfaces, be
properly connected to a water system that at all times provides an adequate
amount of running water under pressure to cause the water closet to be operated
properly, and shall be properly connected to a sewer system which is approved
by the City of Sleepy Eye. The room shall have an operable window, mechanical
ventilation, or fan for proper air circulation.
      2.   A lavatory sink. Said lavatory sink may be in the same room as the
flush water closet, or, if located in another room, the lavatory sink shall be
located in close proximity to the door leading directly into the room in which
said water closet is located. The lavatory sink shall be in good working
condition and properly connected to a water supply which is approved by the
appropriate authority and which provides at all times an adequate amount of
heated and unheated running water under pressure, and which is properly
connected to a sewer system approved by the appropriate authority.
      3.   A room which affords privacy to a person within said room and which
is equipped with a bathtub or shower in good working condition. Said bathtub or
shower may be in the same room as the flush water closet or in another room and
shall be properly connected to a water supply system which is approved by the
appropriate authority and which provides at all times an adequate amount of
heated and unheated water under pressure, and which is connected to a sewer
system approved by the appropriate authority.
   C.   Every long-term hotel dwelling unit and rooming house dwelling unit
shall have access to a water closet, lavatory sink, and bathing facilities
equipped within the specifications of subsection B of this section. Each of
these facilities may be available or used by no more than two (2) long-term
hotel or rooming house dwelling units.
   D.   Every dwelling unit, long-term hotel dwelling unit, and rooming house
dwelling unit shall have at least two (2) means of egress. Bedrooms located
below the first floor shall be provided with an exterior door or window of such
dimensions and construction as to be used as a means of emergency egress.
   E.   Access to and from each dwelling unit, long-term hotel dwelling unit,
and rooming house dwelling unit shall be provided without passing through any
other dwelling unit, long-term hotel dwelling unit, or rooming house dwelling
unit.
   F.   No person shall let to another for occupancy any dwelling unit, long-
term hotel dwelling unit, or rooming house dwelling unit unless all exterior
doors and windows of the dwelling unit are equipped with appropriate,
functioning locking devices.
   G.   Every foundation, roof and exterior wall, door, skylight and window
shall be reasonably weather-tight, water-tight and damp free, and shall be kept
in sound condition and good repair. Floors, interior walls and ceilings shall
be sound and in good repair. All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by paint, which
is not lead-based paint or other protective covering or treatment.
   H.   Every window, exterior door and hatchway or similar device shall be so
constructed to exclude insects during that portion of the year when there is a
need for protection against mosquitoes, flies and other flying insects.
   I.   Accessory structures present or provided by the owner, agent or tenant
occupant on the premises of a dwelling shall be structurally sound and be
maintained in good repair and free of insects and rodents, or such structures
shall be removed from the premises. The exterior of such accessory structures
shall be made weather resistant through the use of decay-resistant materials or
the use of lead-free paint or other preservative.
   J.   Every plumbing fixture and all water and waste pipes shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition. All waste system
clean-out plugs must be easily accessible.
   K.   Every water closet compartment, bathroom and kitchen floor surface
shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water
and so as to permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   L.   Every plumbing fixture and pipe, every chimney, flue and smoke pipe,
every mechanical and electrical fixture and component, and every other
facility, piece of equipment, or utility which is present in a dwelling unit,
long-term hotel dwelling unit, or rooming house dwelling unit which is required
under this chapter, shall be constructed and installed in conformance with the
appropriate statutes, ordinances and regulations of the Uniform Housing Code,
City of Sleepy Eye, and the State of Minnesota.
   M.   No owner, operator, or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment or utility which is required under this chapter to be removed from or
shut off from or discontinued from any occupied dwelling unit, long-term hotel
dwelling unit, or rooming house dwelling unit; except for such temporary
interruption as may be necessary while actual repairs or alterations are in
process, or during temporary emergencies when discontinuance of service is
approved by the appropriate authority.
   N.   Every dwelling shall be equipped with smoke detectors and carbon
monoxide detectors as required by Minnesota State Building Code.
   O.   Every dwelling unit must be maintained in compliance with State of
Minnesota health code, State of Minnesota fire code, blight, nuisance, and
noise ordinances of the City, State of Minnesota nuisance statutes, State of
Minnesota dwelling maintenance standards, as now in force and hereafter
amended, revised, or replaced, and in compliance with all other standards,
ordinances, laws, and regulations governing use, occupancy, construction, and
maintenance of property and conduct of persons in or on that property. Licenses
under this chapter do not constitute certification of compliance with such
codes, standards, ordinances, or statutes. (Ord. 147, 7-9-2019)
4-4-13: OCCUPANCY STANDARDS:
Permissible Occupancy Of A Dwelling Unit: The maximum permissible occupancy of
any dwelling unit shall be deemed as follows:
   A.   Minimum Space: For the first two (2) occupants, two hundred twenty
(220) square feet of habitable room floor space and for every additional
occupant thereof, at least one hundred (100) square feet of habitable room
floor space.
   B.   Maximum Occupancy: In no event shall the total number of occupants
exceed two (2) times the number of habitable rooms, less kitchen, in the
dwelling unit.
   C.   Occupancy Of Sleeping Rooms: In every dwelling unit of two (2) or more
rooms, every room occupied for sleeping purposes shall have the following
minimum habitable room floor space: seventy (70) square feet for one person;
ninety (90) square feet for two (2) persons; and required habitable room floor
space shall be increased at the rate of fifty (50) square feet for each
occupant in excess of two (2).
   D.   Copy Of Occupancy Standards: All lease principals will receive a copy
of the occupancy standards in this section in writing from the landlord. (Ord.
147, 7-9-2019)
4-4-14: PARKING:
All leases on downtown apartments shall contain language requiring tenants to
park off of Highway 14 for anything beyond momentary parking. (Ord. 147, 7-9-
2019)
4-4-15: WRITTEN NOTICES:
Notices from the City required by this chapter shall be effective if personally
delivered or if mailed by first class mail. (Ord. 147, 7-9-2019)
4-4-16: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
Nothing in this chapter prevents the City from taking enforcement action under
any of its fire, housing, zoning, healthy, safety, or other codes, ordinances
and state laws for violations thereof, or to seek injunctive relief for
violations of any ordinance, code, or law. Nothing contained in the chapter
prevents the City from seeking injunctive relief against a property owner or
designated property manager who fails to comply with the terms and conditions
of this chapter or to obtain an order closing such rental units until
violations of this chapter have been remedied by the property owner or
designated property manager. (Ord. 147, 7-9-2019)
4-4-17: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof by lawful authority, be punished by a fine not to exceed the maximum
penalty for misdemeanor crimes, together with the costs of prosecution. All
costs of prosecution will be assessed to the property owner. Each day that a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate punishable offense.
No provision of this chapter designating the duties of any official or employee
of the City shall be so construed as to make such official or employee liable
for the penalty provided in the chapter because of failure to perform such
duty. (Ord. 147, 7-9-2019)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Disorderly Conduct
5-1-2: Noisy Parties
5-1-3: Maintenance Of Private Property
5-1-4: Penalty
5-1-5: Smoking Prohibited
5-1-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for any person, in a public or private place, knowing, or having
reasonable grounds to know, that it will, or will tend to, alarm, anger or
disturb others or provoke any assault or breach of the peace, to do the
following:
   A.   Brawl Or Fight: Engage in brawling or fighting; or
   B.   Disturb Assembly: Disturb an assembly or meeting, not unlawful in its
character; or
   C.   Verbal Abuse; Noisy Conduct: Engage in offensive, obscene or abusive
language or in boisterous and noisy conduct tending reasonably to arouse alarm,
anger or resentment in others; or
   D.   Public Indecency: Wilfully and lewdly expose his person or the private
parts thereof, or procure another to so expose himself; and any open or gross
lewdness or lascivious behavior, or any act of public indecency; or
   E.   Unauthorized Swimming; Improper Attire: Whether or not posted with
signs so prohibiting, voluntarily enter the waters of any public swimming pool
at any time when said waters are not properly supervised by trained life saving
personnel in attendance for that purpose, or enter such waters without being
garbed in a bathing suit sufficient to cover his person and equal to the
standards generally adopted and accepted by the public; or
   F.   Urinate Or Defecate: Urinate or defecate in a place other than: 1) if
on public property then in a plumbing fixture provided for that purpose, or 2)
if on the private property of another then in a plumbing fixture provided for
that purpose, or 3) if on private property not owned or controlled by another,
then within a building; or
   G.   Unnecessary Noise: Cause the making or production of an unnecessary
noise by shouting or by any other means or mechanism including the blowing of
any automobile or other vehicle horn; or
   H.   Sound Amplifier: Use a sound amplifier upon streets and public property
without prior written permission from the City; or
   I.   Flash Or Spot Light: Use a flash or spot light in a manner so as to
annoy or endanger others; or
   J.   Defacement, Destruction To Property: Cause defacement, destruction, or
otherwise damage to any premises or any property located thereon; or
   K.   Litter, Dispose Of Refuse Or Rubbish: Strew, scatter, litter, throw,
dispose of or deposit any refuse, garbage, or rubbish onto any premises except
into receptacles provided for such purpose; or
   L.   Enter Motor Vehicle: Enter any motor vehicle of another without the
consent of the owner or operator; or
   M.   Failure To Leave Property: Fail or refuse to vacate or leave any
premises after being requested or ordered, whether orally or in writing, to do
so, by the owner, or person in charge thereof, or by any law enforcement agent
or official; provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to any
person who is owner or tenant of the premises involved nor to any law
enforcement or other government official who may be present thereon at that
time as part of his official duty, nor shall it include the spouse, children,
employee or tenant of such owner or occupier; or (1988 Code § 10.51)
   N.   Noise From Radios: Use or operate or permit the use or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine, or
other device for the production or reproduction of sound in a district and
loudly audible manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person
nearby. Operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph machine or other
device between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the property line of the
structure or building in which it is located, in the hallway or apartment
adjacent, or a distance of fifty feet (50') if the sound is located outside a
structure or building, shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
subsection; or (Ord. 46, 2nd Series, 6-2-1998)
   O.   Noise From Motor Vehicles: Operate a motor vehicle in such a manner as
to produce squealing of tires, exhaust noise audible at a distance of three
hundred feet (300') or use of jake brakes. In addition, no sound system
contained in a motor vehicle shall be used in a manner where the sound is
plainly audible at a distance of fifty feet (50') or more. The vehicle owner
shall be guilty of the violation, provided that if the vehicle owner is not
present, the person in charge of the vehicle at the time of the violation is
guilty of the violation. (Ord. 58, 2nd Series, 9-9-1999)
5-1-2: NOISY PARTIES:
   A.   Owner Responsibility To Abate: It is unlawful for any person or persons
to congregate on any private lands because of, or participate in, any party or
gathering of people from which noise emanates of a sufficient volume or of such
nature as to disturb the peace, quiet or repose of other persons. Any owner or
person in lawful possession or control of such private lands who has knowledge
of the disturbance and fails to immediately abate said disturbance shall be
guilty of a violation of this section.
   B.   Written Permission Required: It is unlawful for any person or persons
to congregate on any private lands of another because of, or participate in,
any party or gathering of people in the absence of the owner of said private
lands being present, without first having obtained written permission from the
landowner or other person in lawful possession of such private lands. Such
written permission shall at all times be in the possession of one or more
persons at the site of such congregation. The document containing the written
permission must bear the signature of the landowner and date of the permitted
use. Failure to display written permission upon request shall be considered
prima facie evidence of an absence of permission from the owner.
   C.   Authority Of Peace Officer: A violation of subsection A or B of this
section shall give a peace officer the authority to order all persons present,
other than persons identifying themselves as the owner or person in lawful
possession or control of such land, to immediately disperse. Any person who
shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by a peace officer shall be
guilty of a violation of this section. (1988 Code § 10.52)
5-1-3: MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Weeds Or Grass; Diseased Trees; Water Service Lines: It is the primary
responsibility of any owner or occupant of any lot or parcel of land to
maintain any weeds or grass growing thereon at a height of not more than six
inches (6"); to remove all public health or safety hazards therefrom; to
install or repair water service lines thereon; and to treat or remove insect
infested or diseased trees thereon.
   B.   Failure To Assume Responsibility; Notice; Lien: If any such owner or
occupant fails to assume the primary responsibility described in subsection A
of this section, and after notice given by the City Clerk, has not within seven
(7) days of such notice complied, the City may cause such work to be done and
the expenses thus incurred shall be a lien upon such real estate. The City
Clerk shall certify to the County Auditor of Brown County a statement of the
amount of the cost incurred by the City. Such amount together with interest
shall be entered as a special assessment against such lot or parcel of land and
be collected in the same manner as Real Estate Taxes. (1988 Code § 10.31)
5-1-4: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful or
performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act when such
failure is prohibited or declared unlawful by a Code adopted by reference by
this chapter, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof. (1988
Code § 10.99)
5-1-5: SMOKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
    ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE: Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance intended for human consumption that can be used
by a person to simulate smoking in the delivery of nicotine or any other
substance through inhalation of vapor from the product. Electronic delivery
device includes any component part of a product, whether or not marketed or
sold separately. Electronic delivery device does not include any product that
has been approved or certified by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco- cessation product, as a tobacco-
dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is marketed and sold for
such an approved purpose.
   SMOKING: For the purposes of subsections C and D of this section:
      1.   The inhaling or exhaling smoke from any lighted or heated cigar,
cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated tobacco or plant product; or
      2.   Carrying a lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other
lighted or heated tobacco or plant product intended for inhalation; or
      3.   Inhaling or exhaling vapor from any electronic delivery device; or
      4.   Carrying an electronic delivery device that is turned on or
otherwise activated.
   TOBACCO OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including but not limited to, cigarettes; cigars; pipe tobacco; snuff; fine cut
or other chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready-rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff flowers; cavendish;
shorts; plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos; refuse craps, clippings,
cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in such manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing or smoking.
   TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES: Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling
papers, electronic delivery device, or other device intentionally designed or
intended to be used in a manner which enables the chewing, sniffing, or smoking
of tobacco or tobacco products.
   USE: The inhaling or exhaling of vapor from any electronic delivery device.
Use shall also mean carrying an electronic delivery device that is turned on or
otherwise activated.
   B.   Prohibition: The use of any electronic delivery device is prohibited
where smoking is prohibited by the Minnesota Clean Indoor Air Act. The
prohibition contained in this section is intended to complement the Minnesota
Clean Indoor Air Act, Minnesota Statutes sections 144.411 to 144.417, as
amended from time to time. Nothing in this section or any other ordinance of
the City authorizes use of an electronic delivery device in any location where
use is restricted by other applicable laws.
   C.   Use In Retail Tobacco Establishment: Smoking any tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco related devices, and electronic delivery devices, including
for the purpose of sampling, is prohibited within the indoor area of any
establishment with a tobacco retailer license.
   D.   Proprietors: It is a violation of this section for the proprietor,
person, or entity that owns, leases, manages, operates, or otherwise controls
the area in which use or smoking is prohibited under this section to knowingly
fail to comply with the provisions of this section.
   E.   Penalty: A person who violates any provision of this section is guilty
of a petty misdemeanor. Each day of violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 123, 2nd Series, 10-14-2014)
CHAPTER 2
DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND ARTICLES; FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Prohibited Acts; Exception
5-2-2: Discharge Of Firearms And Explosives; Exception
5-2-3: Possession And Sale Of Fireworks
5-2-4: Exposure Of Unused Container
5-2-5: Use Of Bow And Arrow
5-2-6: Penalty
5-2-1: PROHIBITED ACTS; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Recklessly handle or use a gun or other dangerous weapon or
explosive so as to endanger the safety of another; or,
      2.   Intentionally point a gun of any kind, capable of injuring or
killing a human being and whether loaded or unloaded, at or toward another; or,
      3.   Manufacture or sell for any unlawful purpose any weapon known as a
slung-shot or sand club; or,
      4.   Manufacture, transfer or possess metal knuckles or a switch blade
knife opening automatically; or,
      5.   Possess any other dangerous article or substance for the purpose of
being used unlawfully as a weapon against another; or,
      6.   Sell or have in his possession any device designed to silence or
muffle the discharge of a firearm; or,
      7.   Permit, as a parent or guardian, any child under fourteen (14) years
of age to handle or use, outside of the parent's or guardian's presence, a
firearm or air gun of any kind, or any ammunition or explosive; or,
      8.   Furnish a minor under eighteen (18) years of age with a firearm, air
gun, ammunition, or explosive without the written consent of his parent or
guardian or of the Police Department.
      9.   Possess, sell, transfer, or have in possession for sale or transfer,
any weapon commonly known as a throwing star, nun chuck or sharp stud. For the
purposes of this subsection: a) a "throwing star" means a circular metallic
device with any number of points projecting from the edge, b) a "nun chuck"
means a pair of wood sticks or metallic rods separated by chain links attached
to one end of each such stick or rod, and c) a "sharp stud" means a circular
piece of metal attached to a wristband, glove, belt or other material which
protrudes one-fourth inch (1/4"), or more, from the material to which it is
attached, and with the protruding portion pyramidal in shape, sharp or pointed.
   B.   Exception: Nothing in subsection A of this section shall prohibit the
possession of the articles therein mentioned if the purpose of such possession
is for public exhibition by museums or collectors of art. (1988 Code § 10.02)
5-2-2: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any
cannon, gun, pistol or other firearm, firecracker, sky rocket or other
fireworks, air gun, air rifle, or other similar device commonly referred to as
a BB gun.
   B.   Exception: Nothing in subsection A of this section shall apply to a
display of fireworks by an organization or group of organizations authorized in
writing by the Council, or to a peace officer in the discharge of his duty, or
to a person in the lawful defense of his person or family. This section shall
not apply to the discharge of firearms in a range authorized in writing by the
Council. (1988 Code § 10.02)
5-2-3: POSSESSION AND SALE OF FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definitions:
    FIREWORKS: For the purposes of this section, "fireworks" will have the same
definition as contained in Minnesota Statutes section 624.20 subd. 1(c) or any
superseding statute.
   B.   Permit Required: No person shall sell or possess for sale fireworks
without first having obtained an annual permit from the City.
      1.   The Fire Chief shall give final approval or denial of an application
for the manufacture, storage for commercial purposes, or sale of fireworks
within fourteen (14) days of such application being made to the City.
      2.   Permits shall be issued for a period of one calendar year.
      3.   Prior to processing the application, a criminal records check must
be conducted; neither the applicant nor the responsible party for the permit
shall have been convicted of a felony or a fire/fireworks-related misdemeanor
within the last three (3) years.
      4.   Prior to processing the application, the Fire Chief shall determine
that the proposed location is Code compliant.
      5.   The application shall include a letter from the person legally
responsible for the property on which the fireworks related activity will
occur. Such letter shall grant permission to the applicant for the use of said
property.
   C.   Sales And Storage Of Fireworks:
      1.   No person shall sell or store fireworks within twenty feet (20') of
any fuel dispensing apparatus.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any seller of any fireworks to permit
smoking at any site containing fireworks. "No Smoking" signs must be
conspicuously posted and approved fire extinguishers must be available for use.
      3.   In buildings that do not have an automated sprinkling system, retail
sales displays of fireworks shall be limited to a gross weight of five hundred
(500) pounds of fireworks. In buildings that do contain an automated sprinkling
system, the amount of fireworks contained in retail sales displays shall be
determined by the Sleepy Eye Fire Chief on a case by case basis after
considering the building's construction, fire suppression apparatus and other
relevant factors.
      4.   The requirements of this section are in addition to any requirements
imposed by any building and zoning regulations, fire codes or State law.
      5.   Only persons eighteen (18) years of age or older may purchase or
sell fireworks and the age of the purchaser must be verified by photographic
identification. A sign indicating only persons eighteen (18) years of age or
older may purchase fireworks must be displayed during the hours of sale which
shall be limited to between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and nine thirty o'clock
(9:30) P.M.
      6.   No exterior storage of fireworks are permitted. No manufacturing,
sales or storage for commercial purposes shall occur on residentially zoned
property or properties used for educational purposes or assemblies. Sale and
storage in a non- permanent structure may not exceed 20 feet by 20 feet in
size.
      7.   A list of all consumer fireworks displayed and stored on the
property shall be available at time of purchase for all fireworks for sale at
location. The list shall document the name, and quantity of the fireworks and
be accompanied by the material safety data sheets.
      8.   Manufacturing, warehouse buildings, or display in excess of the
quantities listed for retail consumer fireworks shall be classified as
occupancy and protected similarly to explosives and aerosols.
      9.   A handout describing fireworks shall be provided to each consumer
purchasing fireworks.
   D.   Use And Possession:
      1.   It is unlawful to use, fire or discharge any fireworks along the
route of and during any parade, in any place of public assembly, on any public
property or in any commercial/industrial zoning district.
      2.   It is unlawful at any time to throw, toss, or aim any fireworks at
any person, animal, vehicle or other thing or object or used in any manner that
may threaten or cause possible harm to life or property.
      3.   The discharge of fireworks shall be prohibited inside a building and
within fifteen feet (15') of any building.
      4.   The Fire Chief may ban fireworks if dry or windy conditions occur.
      5.   Juveniles may not possess fireworks unless under the direct
supervision of a responsible adult.
      6.   Fireworks may not be discharged in such a manner that may create a
nuisance nor between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. with the exception of the 4th of July when the hours for discharge of
fireworks will be allowed from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight.
   E.   Penalties:
      1.   Materials which violate and/or pose a threat to public safety may be
confiscated and destroyed. Costs associated with disposal shall be assessed
back to the property owner or permit holder.
      2.   Violations of this regulation, City ordinance or State Statute may
result in revocation of the permit.
      3.   Violations of these fireworks rules are misdemeanor offenses
punishable by fines up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or ninety (90)
days in jail. (Ord. 120, 2nd Series, 5-13-2014)
5-2-4: EXPOSURE OF UNUSED CONTAINER:
It is unlawful for any person, being the owner or in possession or control
thereof, to permit an unused refrigerator, ice box, or other container,
sufficiently large to retain any child and with doors which fasten
automatically when closed, to expose the same accessible to children, without
removing the doors, lids, hinges or latches. (1988 Code § 10.02)
5-2-5: USE OF BOW AND ARROW:
It is unlawful for any person to shoot a bow and arrow except in the physical
education program in a school supervised by a member of its faculty, a
community-wide supervised class or event specifically authorized by the Chief
of Police, or a bow and arrow range authorized by the Council. (1988 Code §
10.02)
5-2-6: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act when such
failure is prohibited or declared unlawful by a Code adopted by reference by
this chapter, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof. (1988
Code § 10.99)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definition
5-3-2: Unlawful Acts
5-3-3: Exceptions
5-3-4: Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, "minor" means a person under the age of sixteen (16)
years. (1988 Code § 10.50)
5-3-2: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Loitering Prohibited: It is unlawful for any minor person to be or
loiter upon the streets or public places between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the day following.
   B.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It is unlawful for any parent,
guardian, or other person having the legal care or custody of any minor to
allow or permit such minor person to be or loiter upon the streets or public
places in violation of this chapter unless such minor is accompanied by a
parent or guardian. (1988 Code § 10.50)
5-3-3: EXCEPTIONS:
Such curfew shall not apply to any minor student who is lawfully attending,
going to or returning from school, church or community sponsored athletic,
musical or social activities or events. (1988 Code § 10.50)
5-3-4: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act when such
failure is prohibited or declared unlawful by a Code adopted by reference by
this chapter, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof. (1988
Code § 10.99)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Running At Large Prohibited
5-4-3: Number Of Dogs And Cats Restricted
5-4-4: Immunization Required
5-4-5: Fees
5-4-6: Collar Required
5-4-7: Confinement
5-4-8: Seizure By Citizen
5-4-9: Immobilization Of Animals
5-4-10: Other Unlawful Acts
5-4-11: Summary Destruction
5-4-12: Rabies Control; Generally
5-4-13: Reports Of Bite Cases
5-4-14: Police Dogs; Guide Dogs
5-4-15: Animals In Heat
5-4-16: Animals And Fowl Regulated
5-4-17: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall mean:
ANIMAL: A dog or cat.
CAT: Both male and female and includes any animal of the feline kind.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: An animal which has caused damage to property or injury to a
person, or which animal, by its actions, exhibits a propensity for causing
imminent danger to persons.
DOG: Both male and female and includes any animal of the dog kind.
OWN: To have a property interest in, or to harbor, feed, board, keep or
possess.
OWNER: A person who owns an animal hereby regulated. (1988 Code § 10.20)
5-4-2: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit such animal to run at
large. Any dog or cat shall be deemed to be running at large with the
permission of the owner unless it is on a durable leash not to exceed ten feet
(10') in length, secured to an object which it cannot move and/or on the
premises of the owner, or on a leash and under the control of an accompanying
person of suitable age and discretion, or effectively confined within a motor
vehicle, building, or enclosure. (1988 Code § 10.20; amd. 1996 Code)
5-4-3: NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS RESTRICTED:
It is unlawful for the total number of dogs and cats to exceed two (2) per
dwelling unit, or four (4) per multi-dwelling structure, whichever is the
lesser; provided, that this section shall not apply to a kennel licensed under
this Code or to a licensed veterinary clinic. (1988 Code § 10.20; amd. Ord.
191, - -2021)
5-4-4: IMMUNIZATION REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for an owner of an animal to fail to hold a certificate issued
by a veterinarian, licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the State of
Minnesota, showing a valid, current rabies immunization of the animal. (Ord.
191, - -2021)
5-4-5: FEES:
All fees for the confinement and maintenance of animals, including penalties,
may be fixed and determined by the Council, adopted by resolution, and
uniformly enforced. Such fees may from time to time be amended by the Council
by resolution. A copy of the resolution setting forth currently effective fees
shall be kept on file in the Office of the City Clerk and open to inspection
during regular business hours. (1988 Code § 10.20; amd. Ord. 191, - -2021)
5-4-6: COLLAR REQUIRED:
All animals shall wear a collar affixed to the animal evidencing the name of
the owner and the phone number or address of the owner. Failure to do so shall
be unlawful. (1988 Code § 10.20; amd. Ord. 191, - -2021)
5-4-7: CONFINEMENT:
   A.   Placement Of Animals; Records: Any animal found in the City running at
large, or otherwise in violation of this chapter, shall be placed in
confinement, and an accurate record of the time of such placement shall be kept
on each animal. Every animal so placed in confinement shall be held for
redemption by the owner for at least five (5) regular business days.
Confinement records shall be preserved for at least six (6) months and shall
show:
      1.   The description of the animal by species, breed, sex, approximate
age, and other distinguishing traits;
      2.   The location at which the animal was seized;
      3.   The date of seizure;
      4.   The name and address of the person from whom any animal three (3)
months of age or over was received; and
      5.   The name and address of the person to whom any animal three (3)
months of age or over was transferred.
   B.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Animals: If unclaimed, such animal shall be
humanely destroyed and the carcass disposed of, unless it is requested by a
licensed educational or scientific institution under authority of Minnesota
Statutes section 35.71; provided, however, that if a tag affixed to the animal,
or a statement by the animal’s owner after seizure specifies that the animal
should not be used for research, such animal shall not be made available to any
such institution but may be destroyed after the expiration of the five (5) day
period.
   C.   Notice Of Confinement: Upon the confinement of any animal, the owner
shall be notified by the most expedient means, or if the owner is unknown,
written notice shall be posted for five (5) days at the police station
describing the animal and the place and time of taking.
   D.   Release From Confinement: Animals shall be released to their owners
after immunization of any such animal for rabies, and after payment of the
confinement and maintenance fees. (1988 Code § 10.20; amd. Ord. 191, - -2021)
5-4-8: SEIZURE BY CITIZEN:
It is lawful for any person to seize and impound an animal so found running at
large and shall within six (6) hours thereafter notify the City police of said
seizure. It shall be the duty of the City police to place said animal in
confinement. If the name of the owner of such animal so seized is known to the
person who first takes such animal into custody, he or she shall inform the
police of the name of the owner, and the address if known. (1988 Code § 10.20)
5-4-9: IMMOBILIZATION OF ANIMALS:
For the purpose of enforcement of this chapter, any peace officer, or person
whose duty is animal control, may use a so- called tranquilizer gun or other
instrument for the purpose of immobilizing and catching an animal. (1988 Code §
10.20)
5-4-10: OTHER UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It is unlawful for the owner of any animal to: a) own a dangerous animal, or b)
interfere with any police officer, or other City employee, in the performance
of his duty to enforce this chapter, or c) fail to keep the animal from
barking, howling, or whining, for a period of ten (10) minutes, and such
barking, howling, or whining can be heard from the street in front of or alley
or street behind a property. (1988 Code § 10.20; amd. Ord. 167, 2nd Series, 4-
14-2020; Ord. 191, - -2021)
5-4-11: SUMMARY DESTRUCTION:
If an animal is diseased, vicious, rabid or exposed to rabies and such animal
cannot be confined after a reasonable effort or cannot be confined without
serious risk to the person attempting to confine, such animal may be destroyed
in a humane manner. (1988 Code § 10.20; amd. Ord. 117, 2nd Series, 12-9-2013)
5-4-12: RABIES CONTROL; GENERALLY:
   A.   Quarantine Required: Every animal which bites a person shall be
promptly reported to the Chief of Police and shall thereupon be securely
quarantined at the direction of the Chief of Police for a period of fourteen
(14) days, and shall not be released from such quarantine except by written
permission of the City. In the discretion of the Chief of Police, such
quarantine may be on the premises of the owner, at a veterinary hospital or
clinic, or at the City pound. If the animal is quarantined on the premises of
the owner, the City shall have access to the animal at any reasonable time for
study and observation of rabies symptoms. In the case of a stray animal or in
the case of an animal whose ownership is not known, such quarantine shall be at
the discretion of the Chief of Police, who may have the animal confined in a
veterinary hospital designated by him. (Ord. 117, 2nd Series, 12-9-2013)
   B.   Owner Surrender Animal: The owners, upon demand made by the Chief of
Police or by any other City employee empowered by the Council to enforce this
chapter, shall forthwith surrender any animal which has bitten a human, or
which is suspected as having been exposed to rabies, for the purpose of
supervised quarantine. The expenses of the quarantine shall be borne by the
owner, and the animal may be reclaimed by the owner, if adjudged free of
rabies, upon payment of fees set forth in this chapter and upon compliance with
licensing provisions set forth in this chapter.
   C.   Rabies Suspected: When an animal under quarantine and diagnosed as
being rabid or suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid dies or is
killed, the City shall immediately send the head of such animal and rabies data
report to the State Health Department for pathological examination and shall
notify all persons concerned of the results of such examination.
   D.   Comply With Statutes: The City shall issue such proclamation and take
such action when rabies is suspected or exists as is required by Minnesota
Statutes. (1988 Code § 10.20)
5-4-13: REPORTS OF BITE CASES:
   A.   Responsibility Of Physician Or Practitioner: It is the duty of every
physician, or other practitioner, to report to the Chief of Police the names
and addresses of persons treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with
such other information as will be helpful in rabies control.
   B.   Responsibility Of Veterinarians: It is the duty of every licensed
veterinarian to report to the Chief of Police his diagnosis of an animal
observed by him as a rabies suspect. (1988 Code § 10.20)
5-4-14: POLICE DOGS; GUIDE DOGS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the ownership or use of guide
dogs by physically impaired persons, or dogs used in police activities of the
City, such as canine corps or tracking dogs used by or with the permission of
the Police Department. (1988 Code § 10.20; amd. 1996 Code)
5-4-15: ANIMALS IN HEAT:
Except for controlled breeding purposes, every female animal in heat shall be
kept confined in a building or secure enclosure, or in a veterinary hospital or
boarding kennel, in such manner that such female animal cannot come in contact
with other animals. (1988 Code § 10.20)
5-4-16: ANIMALS AND FOWL REGULATED:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following definitions shall
apply.
    ANIMALS: Includes farm animals and all other animals, reptiles and
feathered birds or fowl except dogs, cats, gerbils, hamsters and caged
household birds.
   FARM ANIMALS: Cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats, swine, ponies, ducks,
geese, turkeys, chickens, guinea hens and honey bees.
   B.   Keeping: It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any animal,
not in transit, except: 1) farm animals kept in that portion of the City zoned
for agricultural purposes, or, 2) animals kept as part of a show licensed under
this Code, or, 3) animals used in a parade, or, 4) animals kept in a laboratory
for scientific or experimental purposes, or, 5) animals kept in an animal
hospital or clinic for treatment by a licensed veterinarian.
   C.   Animals In Transit: It is unlawful for any person to transport animals
unless they are: 1) confined within a vehicle, cage or other means of
conveyance, or, 2) farm animals being transported in a portion of the City
zoned for agricultural purposes, or, 3) restrained by means of bridles,
halters, ropes or other means of individual restraint.
   D.   Treatment: It is unlawful for any person to treat any "animal" as
herein defined, or any other animal, in a cruel or inhumane manner.
   E.   Housing: It is unlawful for any person to keep any "animal" as herein
defined, or any other animal, in any structure infested by rodents, vermin,
flies or insects, or inadequate for protection against the elements.
   F.   Trespasses: It is unlawful for any person to herd, drive or ride any
animal over and upon any grass, turf, boulevard, City park, cemetery, garden or
lot without specific permission therefor from the owner. (1988 Code § 10.20)
5-4-17: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act when such
failure is prohibited or declared unlawful by a Code adopted by reference by
this chapter, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof. (1988
Code § 10.99)
ARTICLE A. DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS
SECTION:
5-4A-1: Definitions
5-4A-2: Authority
5-4A-3: Regulation Of A Dangerous Dog
5-4A-4: Regulation Of A Potentially Dangerous Dog
5-4A-5: Penalties
5-4A-6: State Law
5-4A-7: Inconsistencies
5-4A-8: Seizure
5-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words shall mean:
            Any dog that has:
            A.   When unprovoked, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human being on
            public or private property; or
            B.   When unprovoked, killed or inflicted substantial bodily harm on a domestic
DANGEROUS   animal while off the owner’
DOG:        C.   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has notice that
            the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites, attacks, or
            endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals; or
            D.   When unprovoked, repeatedly attacks or attempts to attack a person or
            domestic animal on private or public property.
            Any dog that:
            A.   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on public or
            private property; or
            B.   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a person on a
            bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private property, other
POTENTIALLY than the dog owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of attack; or
DANGEROUS   C.   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack unprovoked,
DOG:        causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals;
            or
            D.   Engages in any unprovoked behavior that requires a defensive action by any
            person to prevent bodily harm when the person and the animal are on or off the
            property of the owner or custodian of the animal; or
            E.   When provoked or unprovoked, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human
            being on public or private property.
            More than one unprovoked attack or attempted attack occurring during the course
REPEATEDLY: of either a single encounter or separate encounters. (Ord. 117, 2nd Series, 12-9-
            2013; amd. Ord. 161, 2nd Series, 10-8-2019)
 
5-4A-2: AUTHORITY:
The animal control officer has the authority and discretion to declare a dog to
be dangerous or potentially dangerous, upon receiving such evidence that the
dog meets the definition set forth in this section. (Ord. 117, 2nd Series, 12-
9-2013)
5-4A-3: REGULATION OF A DANGEROUS DOG:
   A.   Seizure Of Certain Dogs: Upon a finding that the dog has been declared
dangerous, the animal control authority or Hearing Officer is authorized to
order the seizure of the dog, while the outcome of an owner's appeal is pending
or until there has been compliance with applicable conditions, as set out under
Minnesota Statutes section 347.51. Proper notice must be given pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes section 347.541. The owner is liable for all costs incurred
in the maintenance, impounding, and boarding of the dog.
   B.   Destruction Of Certain Dogs:
      1.   The animal control authority or Hearing Officer is authorized to
order the destruction or other disposition of any dog, upon a finding that:
         a.   The dog has been declared dangerous;
         b.   Proper notice has been given pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
section 347.541;
         c.   The owner's right to appeal hereunder has been exhausted or
expired; and
         d.   The owner has failed to comply with the provisions of Minnesota
Statutes section 347.51.
      2.   The owner is liable for all costs incurred in the destruction or
other disposition of the dog. (Ord. 117, 2nd Series, 12-9-2013)
5-4A-4: REGULATION OF A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG:
   A.   Registration:
      1.   No person may own a potentially dangerous dog in this City unless
the dog is registered as provided in this section. The dog must be validly
registered within fourteen (14) days after the owner has notice that the dog is
potentially dangerous.
      2.   The animal control officer shall issue a certificate of registration
to the owner of a potentially dangerous dog if the owner presents sufficient
evidence that:
         a.   The owner has paid an annual fee of not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00), in addition to any regular dog licensing fees, to obtain a
certificate of registration for a potentially dangerous dog under this section;
and
         b.   The owner has had microchip identification implanted in the
potentially dangerous dog as required under Minnesota Statutes section 347.515.
   B.   Requirements:
      1.   An owner of a potentially dangerous dog must renew the registration
of the dog annually until the dog is deceased. If the dog is removed from the
jurisdiction, it must be registered as a potentially dangerous dog in its new
jurisdiction.
      2.   An owner of a potentially dangerous dog must notify the animal
control authority in writing of the death of the dog or its transfer to a new
location where the dog will reside within thirty (30) days of the death or
transfer, and must, if requested by the animal control authority, execute an
affidavit under oath setting forth either the circumstances of the dog's death
and disposition or the complete name, address, and telephone number of the
person to whom the dog has been transferred or the address where the dog has
been relocated.
      3.   A person who transfers ownership of a potentially dangerous dog must
notify the new owner that the animal control authority has identified the dog
as potentially dangerous. The current owner must also notify the animal control
authority in writing of the transfer of ownership and provide the animal
control authority with the new owner's name, address, and telephone number.
   C.   Confiscation:
      1.   Seizure: A potentially dangerous dog may be seized if the dog is not
validly registered after fourteen (14) days after the owner has notice that the
dog is potentially dangerous. The owner is liable for all costs incurred in the
maintenance, impounding, and boarding of the dog.
      2.   Reclaimed:
         a.   A potentially dangerous dog seized may be reclaimed by the owner
of the dog upon payment of impounding and boarding fees, and presenting proof
that the requirements are met or will be met.
         b.   A dog not reclaimed within seven (7) days may be disposed of in a
manner permitted by law, and the owner is liable for costs incurred in
confining and disposing of the dog. (Ord. 117, 2nd Series, 12-9-2013)
5-4A-5: PENALTIES:
A person who violates this article is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 117, 2nd
Series, 12-9-2013)
5-4A-6: STATE LAW:
State law regulating dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs is used in
conjunction with this article. (Ord. 117, 2nd Series, 12-9-2013)
5-4A-7: INCONSISTENCIES:
Provided that the regulations are not inconsistent with this article, this
chapter is hereby reaffirmed. Prior regulations that are inconsistent with this
article are hereby revoked. (Ord. 117, 2nd Series, 12-9-2013)
5-4A-8: SEIZURE:
In the discretion of the Chief of Police, a dog seized under this article may
be held on the premises of the dog's owner, at a veterinary hospital or clinic,
or at the City pound. (Ord. 117, 2nd Series, 12-9-2013)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Custody
5-5-3: Immediate Sale
5-5-4: Notice
5-5-5: Right To Reclaim
5-5-6: Public Sale
5-5-7: Disposal Of Vehicles Not Sold
5-5-8: Contracts For Disposal
5-5-9: Penalty
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE: A motor vehicle as defined in Minnesota Statutes
chapter 168B, that has remained for a period of more than forty eight (48)
hours on public property illegally or lacking vital component parts, or has
remained for a period of more than forty eight (48) hours on private property
without the consent of the person in control of such property, or in an
inoperable condition such that it has no substantial potential further use
consistent with its usual function, unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or
storage building. It shall also mean a motor vehicle voluntarily surrendered by
its owner to and accepted by the City. A classic car or pioneer car, as defined
in Minnesota Statutes chapter 168B, shall not be considered an abandoned motor
vehicle within the meaning of this chapter. Vehicles on the premises of junk
yards or automobile graveyards, which are licensed and maintained in accordance
with this Code, shall not be considered abandoned motor vehicles within the
meaning of this chapter.
VITAL COMPONENT PARTS: Those parts of a motor vehicle that are essential to the
mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including, but not limited to, the
motor, drive train and wheels. (1988 Code § 2.70)
5-5-2: CUSTODY:
The City may take into custody and impound any abandoned motor vehicle. (1988
Code § 2.70)
5-5-3: IMMEDIATE SALE:
When an abandoned motor vehicle is more than seven (7) model years of age, is
lacking vital component parts, and does not display a license plate currently
valid in Minnesota or any other state or foreign country, it shall immediately
be eligible for sale at public auction, and shall not be subject to the
notification, reclamation, or title provisions of this chapter. (1988 Code §
2.70)
5-5-4: NOTICE:
   A.   Content Of Notice: When an abandoned motor vehicle does not fall within
the provisions of section
5-5-3 of this chapter, the City shall give notice of the taking within ten (10)
days. The notice shall set forth the date and place of the taking, the year,
make, model and serial number of the abandoned motor vehicle, if such
information can be reasonably obtained, and the place where the vehicle is
being held, shall inform the owner and any lienholders of their right to
reclaim the vehicle under section
5-5-5 of this chapter and shall state that failure of the owner or lienholder
to exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle and contents shall be deemed a
waiver by them of all rights, title and interest in the vehicle and a consent
to the sale of the vehicle and contents at a public auction pursuant to section
5-5-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Recipients And/Or Publication: The notice shall be sent by mail to the
registered owner, if any, of the abandoned motor vehicle and to all readily
identifiable lienholders of record. If it is impossible to determine with
reasonable certainty the identity and address of the registered owner and all
lienholders, the notice shall be published once in the official newspaper.
Published notices may be grouped together for convenience and economy. (1988
Code § 2.70)
5-5-5: RIGHT TO RECLAIM:
   A.   Fifteen Day Limit: The owner or any lienholder of an abandoned motor
vehicle shall have a right to reclaim such vehicle from the City upon payment
of all towing and storage charges resulting from taking the vehicle into
custody within fifteen (15) days after the date of the notice required by
section
5-5-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Garage Keeper Defined: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
impair any lien of a garage keeper under the laws of this State, or the right
of the lienholder to foreclose. For the purposes of this section "garage
keeper" is an operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a
motor vehicle storage facility, or an operator of an establishment for the
servicing, repair or maintenance of motor vehicles. (1988 Code § 2.70)
5-5-6: PUBLIC SALE:
   A.   Purchaser Receives Title: An abandoned motor vehicle and contents taken
into custody and not reclaimed under section
5-5-5 of this chapter shall be sold to the highest bidder at public auction or
sale, following one notice published at least seven (7) days prior to such
auction or sale. The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title to dispose of
the vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the
vehicle and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and
claims of ownership. Before such a vehicle is issued a new certificate of
title, it must receive a motor vehicle safety check.
   B.   Disbursement Of Auction Monies: From the proceeds of the sale of an
abandoned motor vehicle, the City shall reimburse itself for the cost of
towing, preserving and storing the vehicle, and all administrative, notice and
publication costs incurred pursuant to this section. Any remainder from the
proceeds of a sale shall be held for the owner of the vehicle or entitled
lienholder for ninety (90) days and then shall be deposited in the General Fund
of the City. (1988 Code § 2.70)
5-5-7: DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES NOT SOLD:
Where no bid has been received for an abandoned motor vehicle, the City may
dispose of it in accordance with section
5-5-8 of this chapter. (1988 Code § 2.70)
5-5-8: CONTRACTS FOR DISPOSAL:
   A.   Eligibility For Contract: The City may contract with any qualified
person for collection, storage, incineration, volume reduction, transportation
or other services necessary to prepare abandoned motor vehicles and other scrap
metal for recycling or other methods of disposal.
   B.   Compliance With Agency: Where the City enters into a contract with a
person duly licensed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, the agency
shall review the contract to determine whether it conforms to the agency's plan
for solid waste disposal. A contract that does so conform may be approved by
the agency. Where a contract has been approved, the agency may reimburse the
City for the costs incurred under the contract which have not been reimbursed.
   C.   Reimbursement To City: If the City utilizes its own equipment and
personnel for disposal of the abandoned motor vehicle, it shall be entitled to
reimbursement for the cost thereof along with its other costs as herein
provided. (1988 Code § 2.70)
5-5-9: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof. (1988 Code § 2.99)
CHAPTER 6
HOSTING GATHERING WITH UNDERAGE ALCOHOL POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION
SECTION:
5-6-1: Purpose
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Prohibited Acts
5-6-4: Exceptions
5-6-5: Penalty
5-6-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to Minnesota Statutes section 145A.05, subd.
1, to protect public health and safety and discourage underage possession and
consumption of alcohol by holding persons criminally responsible who host
events or gatherings at which underage persons possess or consume alcohol,
regardless of whether the host supplied the alcohol. (Ord. 105, 2nd Series, 8-
12-2010)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms have the following meanings:
ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, whiskey,
rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits, including dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid or
solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains one-half
of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage
purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances.
EVENT OR GATHERING: Any group of three (3) or more persons who have assembled
or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
HOST: To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit a gathering or event.
PARENT: A person having legal custody of a juvenile as a natural or adoptive
parent or step-parent, as a legal guardian, or as a person to whom legal
custody has been given by order of the court.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation, or any
association of one or more individuals.
UNDERAGE PERSON: Any individual under twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord. 105,
2nd Series, 8-12-2010)
5-6-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It is unlawful for any person to host an event or gathering, at any location,
at which:
   A.   Alcoholic beverages are present; and
   B.   The person knows, or reasonably should know, that any underage person
will or does consume any alcoholic beverage or possess any alcoholic beverage
with the intent to consume it; and
   C.   The person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent possession or
consumption by the underage person.
A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be present at the
event or gathering to be in violation of this section. (Ord. 105, 2nd Series,
8-12-2010)
5-6-4: EXCEPTIONS:
Section
5-6-3 of this chapter shall not be construed to apply to:
   A.   Conduct solely between an underage person and that person's parent
while in the parent's household.
   B.   Legally protected religious observances.
   C.   Conduct of intoxicating liquor licensees, 3.2 percent malt liquor
licensees, or bottle club permit holders who are regulated by Minnesota
Statutes chapter 340A.
   D.   Situations in which an underage person is lawfully in possession of
alcoholic beverages during the course and scope of that person's employment.
(Ord. 105, 2nd Series, 8-12-2010)
5-6-5: PENALTY:
Violation of section
5-6-3 of this chapter is a misdemeanor. (Ord. 105, 2nd Series, 8-12-2010)
CHAPTER 7
BACKGROUND CHECKS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Applicants For City Employment
5-7-2: Applicants For City Licenses
5-7-1: APPLICANTS FOR CITY EMPLOYMENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota's computerized
criminal history information for specified non-criminal purposes of employment
background checks for the positions described in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Criminal History Employment Background Investigations:
      1.   The Sleepy Eye Police Department is hereby required, as the
exclusive entity within the City, to do a criminal history background
investigation on the applicants for the following positions within the City,
unless the City's hiring authority concludes that a background investigation is
not needed:
         a.   Employment positions: All regular part-time or full-time
employees of the City of Sleepy Eye and other positions that work with children
or vulnerable adults.
      2.   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in order
to screen employment applicants, the Police Department is authorized to access
data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions computerized
criminal history information system in accordance with BCA policy. Any data
that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the Police Department
under the care and custody of the Chief Law Enforcement Official or his or her
designee. A summary of the results of the computerized criminal history data
may be released by the Police Department to the hiring authority, including the
City Council, the City Manager, or other City staff involved in the hiring
process.
      3.   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must authorize
the Police Department by written consent to undertake the investigation. The
written consent must fully comply with the provisions of Minnesota Statutes
chapter 13 regarding the collection, maintenance and use of the information.
Except for the positions set forth in Minnesota Statutes section 364.09, the
City will not reject an applicant for employment on the basis of the
applicant's prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the
position of employment sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross
misdemeanor, or misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the City rejects the
applicant's request on this basis, the City shall notify the applicant in
writing of the following:
         a.   The grounds and reasons for the denial.
         b.   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
Minnesota Statutes section 364.06.
         c.   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment.
         d.   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication. (Ord. 107, 2nd Series, 6-14-2011)
5-7-2: APPLICANTS FOR CITY LICENSES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota's computerized
criminal history information for specified non-criminal purposes of licensing
background checks.
   B.   Criminal History License Background Investigations:
      1.   The Sleepy Eye Police Department is hereby required, as the
exclusive entity within the City, to do a criminal history background
investigation on the applicants for the following licenses with the City:
         a.   City licenses: For example, employees of liquor establishments,
peddler licenses, etc.
      2.   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in order
to screen license applicants, the Police Department is authorized to access
data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions computerized
criminal history information system in accordance with BCA policy. Any data
that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the Police Department
under the care and custody of the Chief Law Enforcement Official or his or her
designee. A summary of the results of the computerized criminal history data
may be released by the Police Department to the licensing authority, including
the City Council, the City Manager, or other City staff involved in the license
approval process.
      3.   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must authorize
the Police Department by written consent to undertake the investigation. The
written consent must fully comply with the provisions of Minnesota Statutes
chapter 13 regarding the collection, maintenance and use of the information.
Except for the positions set forth in Minnesota Statutes section 364.09, the
City will not reject an applicant for a license on the basis of the applicant's
prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the license sought and
the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor with a jail
sentence. If the City rejects the applicant's request on this basis, the City
shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
         a.   The grounds and reasons for the denial.
         b.   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
Minnesota Statutes section 364.06.
         c.   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license.
         d.   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication. (Ord. 107, 2nd Series, 6-14-2011)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Certain Statutes Adopted
6-1-2: Definitions
6-1-3: Application Of Provisions
6-1-4: Scope And Orders Of Officers
6-1-5: Special Vehicle Use By The Disabled
6-1-6: Load Limits
6-1-7: Truck Routes
6-1-8: U-Turns
6-1-9: Left Turns Prohibited
6-1-10: Exhibition Driving
6-1-11: One-Way Streets
6-1-12: Driving Through Private Property To Avoid Traffic Signal
6-1-12-1: School Zones
6-1-13: Emergency Vehicles
6-1-14: Bicycles
6-1-15: Penalty
6-1-1: CERTAIN STATUTES ADOPTED:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this title, or in title 7 of this Code,
the regulatory and procedural provisions of Minnesota Statutes chapter 169,
commonly referred to as the Highway Traffic Regulation Act, as amended through
laws of 1988, is hereby incorporated herein and adopted by reference, including
the penalty provisions thereof.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in this title, or in title 7 of this Code,
Minnesota Statutes sections 171.01, 171.02, 171.08, 171.22, 171.23 and 171.24,
as amended through laws of 1988, are hereby incorporated herein and adopted by
reference, including the penalty provisions thereof. (1988 Code § 8.01)
6-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except as otherwise defined in this Code, or where the context clearly
indicates a contrary intent, the words and terms defined in Minnesota Statutes
chapter 169, shall be applicable to this title and title 7 of this Code. (1988
Code § 7.01)
6-1-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this title and title 7 of this Code are applicable to the
drivers of all vehicles and animals upon streets, including, but not limited
to, those owned or operated by the United States, the State of Minnesota, or
any county, town, city, district, or other political subdivision. (1988 Code §
7.02)
6-1-4: SCOPE AND ORDERS OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this title and title 7 of this Code relate
exclusively to the streets, alleys and private roads in the City, and the
operation and parking of vehicles refer exclusively to the operation and
parking of vehicles upon such streets, alleys and private roads.
   B.   Orders Of An Officer: It is a misdemeanor for any person to wilfully
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of any police or
peace officer invested by law with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic. (1988 Code § 7.03)
6-1-5: SPECIAL VEHICLE USE BY THE DISABLED:
   A.   Operation Authorized: Operation of motorized golf carts or four (4)
wheel all-terrain vehicles are hereby authorized on the roadways of all
streets, except such as are prohibited by resolution of the Council, and only
in strict compliance with this section. For the purpose of this section, a four
(4) wheel all-terrain vehicle is a motorized flotation-tired vehicle with four
(4) low-pressure tires that is limited in engine displacement of less than
eight hundred (800) cubic centimeters and total dry weight less than six
hundred (600) pounds.
   B.   Permits: Permits shall be issued only to disabled persons as defined by
statute. Application for a permit to operate a motorized golf cart or a four
(4) wheel all-terrain vehicle on the roadways of streets shall include the name
and address of the applicant and such other information as may from time to
time be required by the Council. Applications for initial or renewal permits
shall be accompanied by a certificate signed by a physician stating that the
applicant is capable of safely operating a motorized golf cart or a four (4)
wheel all-terrain vehicle on the roadway of streets. All permits shall expire
on December 31, unless renewed. The fee for a permit shall be fixed by
resolution of the Council.
   C.   Standards And Rules Of Operation: It is unlawful for any person to
operate a motorized golf cart or a four (4) wheel all- terrain vehicle on the
roadway of a street unless:
      1.   The operator has in possession a valid, current and unrevoked permit
from the City.
      2.   The operation is on a roadway which has not been designated as
prohibited for such operation, except crossing at an intersection.
      3.   The operation is during daylight hours between sunrise and sunset.
      4.   The operation is not during inclement weather, or when visibility is
impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or other conditions, or when there is
insufficient light to clearly see persons or vehicles thereon at a distance of
five hundred feet (500').
      5.   The motorized golf cart or four (4) wheel all-terrain vehicle
displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem, as described by statute, on the rear
thereof.
      6.   The motorized golf cart or four (4) wheel all-terrain vehicle is
equipped with rear view mirrors as required by statute for other vehicles.
      7.   The operator has insurance coverage as provided by statute
(presently Minnesota Statutes section 65B.48, subdivision 5) for motorcycles.
      8.   The operator observes all traffic laws, except such as cannot
reasonably be applied to motorized golf carts or four (4) wheel all-terrain
vehicles. (1988 Code § 8.10; amd. 1996 Code)
6-1-6: LOAD LIMITS:
The Council, upon the recommendation of the Street Superintendent or City
Engineer, may from time to time impose upon vehicular traffic on any part or
all of the streets such load limits as may be necessary or desirable. Such
limits, and the specific extent or weight to which loads are limited, shall be
clearly and legibly sign-posted thereon. It is unlawful for any person to
operate a vehicle on any street in violation of the limitation so posted. (1988
Code § 7.10; amd. 1996 Code)
6-1-7: TRUCK ROUTES:
It is unlawful for any person to drive a tractor, agricultural implement, truck
over nine thousand (9,000) pounds gross vehicle weight, truck-trailer, tractor-
trailer or truck tractor in through traffic, upon any street except those which
have been designated and sign-posted as truck routes. For the purpose of this
title, "through traffic" means originating without the City and with a
destination without the City, as distinguished from "local traffic" which means
traffic either originating or having a destination within the City. (1988 Code
§ 8.02)
6-1-8: U-TURNS:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle by turning so as to
proceed in the opposite direction upon any street except at a street
intersection, and then only if the street intersection is not sign-posted
prohibiting a U-turn or otherwise controlled by a traffic signal; provided,
that any person making a permitted U-turn shall yield the right-of-way to all
other vehicles. (1988 Code § 8.03)
6-1-9: LEFT TURNS PROHIBITED:
The Chief of Police may, in his discretion, and with the consent of the
Council, prohibit left turns entirely, or during specified hours, at certain
intersections. It is unlawful for any person to make a left turn at any
intersection sign-posted prohibiting the same, or make a left turn during the
hours of such sign-posted prohibition. (1988 Code § 8.04)
6-1-10: EXHIBITION DRIVING:
   A.   Definition: "Exhibition driving", as used in this section, means to
stop, start, accelerate or decelerate a motor vehicle, or to turn such motor
vehicle at an unnecessary rate of speed so as to cause tires to squeal, gears
to grind, soil to be thrown, engine backfire, fishtailing or skidding, or, as
to two (2) wheeled or three (3) wheeled motor vehicles, the front wheel to lose
contact with the ground or roadway surface.
   B.   Misdemeanor; Exception: It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any
exhibition driving on any street, parking lot, or other public or private
property, except when an emergency creates necessity for such operation to
prevent injury to persons or damage to property; provided, that this section
shall not apply to driving on a racetrack. For purposes of this section, a
"racetrack" means any track or premises whereon motorized vehicles, horses,
dogs, or other animals or fowl legally compete in a race or timed contest for
an audience, the members of which have directly or indirectly paid a
consideration for admission. (1988 Code § 6.10)
6-1-11: ONE-WAY STREETS:
   A.   Council Authority: The Council may, by resolution, designate streets as
one-way streets.
   B.   Obedience To Signs: It is a misdemeanor for any person to travel upon
any one-way street in a direction opposite that designated when the same has
been duly sign-posted. (1988 Code § 8.06)
6-1-12: DRIVING THROUGH PRIVATE PROPERTY TO AVOID TRAFFIC SIGNAL:
It is unlawful for any person to avoid obedience to any traffic- control device
by driving upon or through any private property. (1988 Code § 8.07)
6-1-12-1: SCHOOL ZONES:
   A.   The Sleepy Eye Public School may close 4th Avenue SW to motor vehicle
traffic excepting school buses and emergency vehicles between Linden Street SW
and Summit Street SW from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to eight thirty o'clock (8:
30) A.M. and from two thirty o'clock (2:30) P.M. to three thirty o'clock (3:30)
P.M. on school days.
   B.   Traffic arms or markers designating the area as closed shall be put in
place by the Sleepy Eye Public School during the closed time.
   C.   Any person who operates a motor vehicle and enters the marked area
during closed times shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 100, 2nd Series,
10-13-2009)
6-1-13: EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
The provisions of this title shall not apply to vehicles when operated with due
regard for safety, under the direction of police officers in the chase or
apprehension of violators of the law or of persons charged with or suspected of
any such violation, nor to Fire Department or fire patrol vehicles when
traveling in response to a fire alarm, nor to public ambulances when traveling
in emergencies. This exemption shall not, however, protect the driver of any
such vehicle from the consequences of a reckless disregard of the safety of
others. (1988 Code § 8.08)
6-1-14: BICYCLES:
   A.   Definition: The term "bicycle", as used in this section, means every
device propelled by human power upon which a person may ride, having two (2)
tandem wheels either of which is over fourteen inches (14") in diameter, and
including any device generally recognized as a bicycle though equipped with two
(2) front or rear wheels.
   B.   Riding And Parking Restrictions: It is unlawful for any person to ride,
park, or leave standing, a bicycle on any sidewalk within that portion of the
City bounded by Third Avenue West on the west, Oak Street on the north, Third
Avenue East on the east, and Walnut Street on the south. Violation of this
subsection shall result in confiscation of the bicycle ridden in such violation
for a period of one week. (1988 Code § 7.11)
6-1-15: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
title when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or fails
to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
   A.   Where the specific section, subsection, paragraph or provision
specifically makes violation a misdemeanor, he shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances
so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, he shall be
punished as for a misdemeanor; where he stands convicted of violation of any
provision of this title, exclusive of violations relating to the standing or
parking of an unattended vehicle, within the immediate preceding twelve (12)
month period for the third or subsequent time, he shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor.
   B.   As to any violations not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of subsection A of this section, he shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor.
   C.   As to any violation of a provision adopted by reference, he shall be
punished as specified in such provision, so adopted. (1988 Code § 8.99)
CHAPTER 2
STANDING AND PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Presumption Of Liability
6-2-2: Traffic And Parking Control
6-2-3: General Parking Prohibitions
6-2-4: Recreational Camping Vehicles; Parking
6-2-5: Unauthorized Removal
6-2-6: Direction To Proceed
6-2-7: Parallel And Angle Parking
6-2-8: Streets Without Curb
6-2-9: No Parking And Limited Parking Zones
6-2-10: Restrictions During Snow Removal
6-2-11: Truck Parking
6-2-12: City Parking Lots
6-2-13: Impounding And Removing Vehicles
6-2-14: Vehicle Repair On Street
6-2-15: Physically Disabled Parking
6-2-16: Parking On Private Property Without Consent
6-2-17: Penalty
6-2-1: PRESUMPTION OF LIABILITY:
As to any vehicle parking in violation of this title and title 7 of this code,
when the driver thereof is not present, it shall be presumed that the owner or
lessee of such vehicle parked the same, or that the driver was acting as the
agent of the owner or lessee. (1988 Code § 9.01)
6-2-2: TRAFFIC AND PARKING CONTROL:
   A.   Council Action: No device, sign or signal shall be erected or
maintained for traffic or parking control unless the Council shall first have
approved and directed the same, except as otherwise provided in this section;
provided, that when traffic and parking control is marked or sign-posted, such
marking or sign-posting shall attest to Council action thereon.
   B.   Temporary Restrictions: The City, acting through the Chief of Police,
may temporarily restrict traffic or parking for any private, public or
experimental purpose. It is the duty of the Chief of Police to so restrict
traffic or parking when a hazardous condition arises or is observed.
   C.   Movement Restrictions And Prohibitions: It is a misdemeanor for any
person to drive a vehicle contrary to lane restrictions or prohibitions painted
on any street, or contrary to sign- posted, fenced, or barricaded restrictions
or prohibitions.
   D.   Parking Restrictions And Prohibitions: It is unlawful for any person to
park a vehicle, except an emergency vehicle, contrary to lane restrictions or
prohibitions painted on any curb, or contrary to sign-posted, fenced, or
barricaded restrictions or prohibitions.
   E.   Damaging Or Moving Markings: It is a misdemeanor for any person to
deface, mar, damage, move, remove, or in any way tamper with any structure,
work, material, equipment, tools, sign, signal, barricade, fence, painting or
appurtenance in any street unless such person has written permission from the
City or is an agent, employee or contractor for the City, or other authority
having jurisdiction over a particular street, and acting within the authority
or scope of a contract with the City or such other authority. (1988 Code §
7.04)
6-2-3: GENERAL PARKING PROHIBITIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
specific directions of a police officer or traffic-control device in any of the
following places:
   A.   On a sidewalk;
   B.   In front of a public or private driveway;
   C.   Within an intersection;
   D.   Within ten feet (10') of a fire hydrant;
   E.   On a crosswalk;
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at any intersection;
   G.   In a sign-posted fire lane;
   H.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   I.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   J.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly sign-posted;
   K.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   L.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   M.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street;
   N.   At any place where official signs prohibit or restrict stopping,
parking or both;
   O.   In any alley, except for loading or unloading and then only so long as
reasonably necessary for such loading and unloading to or from adjacent
premises; or
   P.   On any boulevard which has been curbed. (1988 Code § 9.02)
6-2-4: RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLES; PARKING:
   A.   Definition: The term "recreational camping vehicle" means any of the
following:
   CAMPING TRAILER: A folding structure, mounted on wheels and designed for
travel, recreation and vacation uses.
   MOTOR HOME: A portable, temporary building to be used for travel, recreation
and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle.
   PICKUP COACH: A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for use
as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
   TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed
to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and vacation uses,
permanently identified "travel trailer" by the manufacturer of the trailer.
   B.   Restricted Parking Within Rights-Of-Way: It is unlawful for any person
to leave or park a recreational camping vehicle on or within the limits of any
street or right of way for a continuous period in excess of twenty four (24)
hours, except where signs are erected designating the place as a campsite or in
a mobile home park. Provided, however, that during such twenty four (24) hour
period, such vehicle shall not be occupied as living quarters. (1988 Code §
9.03)
6-2-5: UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL:
It is unlawful for any person to move a vehicle not owned, leased or under the
control of such person into any prohibited area or away from a curb such
distance as is unlawful. (1988 Code § 9.04)
6-2-6: DIRECTION TO PROCEED:
It is unlawful for any person to stop or park a vehicle on a street when
directed or ordered to proceed by any police officer invested by law with
authority to direct, control or regulate traffic. (1988 Code § 9.05)
6-2-7: PARALLEL AND ANGLE PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking: Except where angle parking is specifically allowed
and indicated by curb or street marking or sign-posting, or all or any of them,
each vehicle stopped or parked upon a two- way road where there is an adjacent
curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle
parallel with, and within twelve inches (12") of, the right-hand curb, and,
where painted markings appear on the curb or the street, such vehicle shall be
within such markings, front and rear; provided, that upon a one-way roadway all
vehicles shall be so parked, except that the left-hand wheels of the vehicle
may be parallel with and within twelve inches (12") from the left-hand curb,
but the front of the vehicle in any event and with respect to the remainder of
the vehicle, shall be in the direction of the flow of traffic upon such one-way
street; and it is unlawful to park in violation of this subsection. (1988 Code
§ 9.05)
   B.   Angle Parking: Where angle parking has been established by Council
resolution, and is allowed, as shown by curb or street marking or sign-posting,
or all or any of them, each vehicle stopped or parked shall be at an angle of
approximately forty five degrees (45°) to sixty degrees (60°) with the front
wheel touching the curb and within any parking lines painted on the curb or
street; provided, that the front wheel not touching the curb shall be the
portion of the vehicle furthest in the direction of one-way traffic; and it is
unlawful to park in violation of this subsection. (1988 Code § 9.06)
6-2-8: STREETS WITHOUT CURB:
Upon streets not having a curb each vehicle shall be stopped or parked parallel
and to the right of the paving, improved or main traveled part of the street;
and it is unlawful to park in violation of this section. (1988 Code § 9.08)
6-2-9: NO PARKING AND LIMITED PARKING ZONES:
Parking on streets shall be limited as follows:
   A.   Maximum Time; Unposted Streets: It is unlawful for any person to stop,
park or leave standing any vehicle upon any street for a continuous period in
excess of forty eight (48) hours.
   B.   Time Limited Parking Established: The Chief of Police may, when
authorized by resolution of the Council, designate certain streets, blocks or
portions of streets or blocks as prohibited parking zones, or five-minute, ten-
minute, fifteen-minute, thirty-minute, one-hour, two-hour, four-hour, six-hour,
eight- hour, morning or afternoon rush hour limited parking zones and shall
mark by appropriate signs any zones so established. Such zones shall be
established whenever necessary for the convenience of the public or to minimize
traffic hazards and preserve a free flow of traffic. It is unlawful for any
person to stop, park or leave standing any vehicle in a prohibited parking
zone, for a period of time in excess of the sign-posted limitation, or during
sign-posted hours of prohibited parking.
   C.   Tampering Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to remove, erase or
otherwise obliterate any mark or sign placed upon a tire or other part of a
vehicle by a police officer for the purpose of measuring the length of time
such vehicle has been parked.
   D.   Enforcement; Moving Vehicle Within Block: For the purpose of
enforcement of this section, any vehicle moved less than one block in a limited
time parking zone shall be deemed to have remained stationary. (1988 Code §
9.09)
6-2-10: RESTRICTIONS DURING SNOW REMOVAL:
The City Council shall determine the snow removal policy, and may adjust and
update said policy as they deem appropriate. Any adjustments and updates to the
snow removal policy must be published in the Sleepy Eye Herald Dispatch. It is
the responsibility of the vehicle owner to be informed of snow removal policies
and be aware of when a snow emergency has been declared. Failure to comply with
the snow removal policy shall be subject to a misdemeanor ticket under this
section and/or towing of the vehicle. (Ord. 118, 2nd Series, 1-14-2014)
6-2-11: TRUCK PARKING:
   A.   Legal Areas Posted: It is unlawful to park a detached semi- trailer
upon any street, City-owned parking lot, or other public property except such
as are specifically designated by the Council by resolution and sign-posted.
   B.   Weight Restrictions; Residential District: It is unlawful to park a
truck (other than a truck of 7,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, or less),
truck-trailer, tractor-trailer or truck-tractor within an area zoned as a
residential district except for the purpose of loading or unloading the same,
and then only during such time as is reasonably necessary for such activity.
   C.   Weight Restrictions; Business District: It is unlawful to park a
commercial vehicle of more than twelve thousand (12,000) pounds gross vehicle
weight upon any street in the business district except streets as specifically
designated by the Council by resolution and sign-posted, but parking of such
vehicle for a period of not more than thirty (30) minutes shall be permitted in
such space for the purpose of necessary access to abutting property while
actively loading or unloading when such access cannot reasonably be secured
from an alley or from an adjacent street where truck parking is not so
restricted.
   D.   Length Of Vehicle: It is unlawful to park a truck or other vehicle
using or equipped with a trailer, or extended body or other extension or
projection beyond the original length of such vehicle, or any passenger bus,
diagonally along any street except for a time sufficient to load or unload, and
in such case, only parallel parking shall be permitted. Provided, however, that
a truck may stand backed up to the curb if the weight or bulk of the load makes
parallel parking impracticable, but then only for a period of time sufficient
to load or unload.
   E.   Time Limited: Parking of commercial vehicles is permitted in duly
designated and sign-posted loading zones, and in alleys, for a period of up to
twenty (20) minutes; provided, that such alley parking does not prevent the
flow of traffic therein, all of which shall be for the purpose of access to
abutting or adjacent property while actively loading or unloading. (1988 Code §
9.11)
6-2-12: CITY PARKING LOTS:
In City-owned parking lots, the Council may limit the sizes and types of motor
vehicles to be parked thereon, hours of parking, and prescribed method of
parking; provided, that such limitations and restrictions are marked or sign-
posted thereon. It is unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle backed
into a parking place, to drive in a direction opposite the flow of traffic
marked by "one-way" signs or arrows, or to park any vehicle in any City-owned
parking lot contrary to the restrictions or limitations marked or sign-posted
therein. (1988 Code § 9.12)
6-2-13: IMPOUNDING AND REMOVING VEHICLES:
When any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or City-owned
parking lot in violation of any parking regulation, such officer is hereby
authorized to require the driver or other person in charge of such vehicle to
remove the same to a position in compliance with this chapter. When any police
officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any street or City-owned parking lot in
violation of any parking regulation, such officer is hereby authorized to
impound such unlawfully parked vehicle and to provide for the removal thereof
and to remove the same to a convenient garage or other facility or place of
safety; provided, that if any charge shall be placed against such vehicle for
cost of removal or storage, or both, by anyone called upon to assist therewith
the same shall be paid prior to removal from such place of storage or
safekeeping. (1988 Code § 9.13)
6-2-14: VEHICLE REPAIR ON STREET:
It is unlawful for any person to service, repair, assemble or dismantle any
vehicle parked upon a street, or attempt to do so, except to service such
vehicle with gasoline or oil or to provide emergency repairs thereon, but in no
event for more than twenty four (24) hours. (1988 Code § 9.14)
6-2-15: PHYSICALLY DISABLED PARKING:
   A.   Compliance With Law: Statutory parking privileges for the physically
disabled shall be strictly observed and enforced. Police officers are
authorized to tag vehicles on either private or public property in violation of
such statutory privileges.
   B.   Parking Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, whether or not
physically disabled, to stop, park, or leave standing, a motor vehicle: 1) in a
sign-posted fire lane at any time, or 2) in lanes where, and during such hours
as, parking is prohibited to accommodate heavy traffic during morning and
afternoon rush hours. (1988 Code § 9.15; amd. 1996 Code)
6-2-16: PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT CONSENT:
It is a misdemeanor to park or abandon a motor vehicle on the property of
another, or upon an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without
the consent of the owner, lessee or person in charge of any such property or
facility. (1988 Code § 9.16)
6-2-17: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
   A.   Where the specific section, subsection, paragraph or provision
specifically makes violation a misdemeanor, he shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances
so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, he shall be
punished as for a misdemeanor; where he stands convicted of violation of any
provision of this chapter, exclusive of violations relating to the standing or
parking of an unattended vehicle, within the immediate preceding twelve (12)
month period for the third or subsequent time, he shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor. (1988 Code § 9.99)
   B.   The City Council may by resolution establish various fines for parking
violations.
   C.   As to any violations not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of subsection A or B of this section by resolution, shall be
punishable as a petty misdemeanor. (Ord. 25, 2nd Series, 10-4-1994)
CHAPTER 3
SPECIAL USE VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Snowmobiles And All-Terrain Vehicles
6-3-3: Class 2 All-Terrain Vehicles And Utility Task Vehicles
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
             As defined by M.S. § 84.92, Subd. 8, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or VEHICLE shall mean
             a motorized vehicle with: (1) not less than three, but not more than six low
ALL-TERRAIN  pressure or non-pneumatic tires; (2) a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or
VEHICLE or   less; and (3) a total width from outside of tire rim to outside of tire rim
VEHICLE:     that is 65 inches or less. All-terrain vehicle shall include class 2 all-
             terrain vehicles. ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE shall not include a golf cart, mini-
             truck, dune buggy, or go-cart or a vehicle designed and used specifically for
             lawn maintenance, agriculture, logging, or mining purposes.
             As defined by M.S. § 84.92, Subd. 10, CLASS 2 ALL- TERRAIN VEHICLE shall mean
CLASS 2 ALL- an all-terrain vehicle that, when originally manufactured, had a total width
TERRAIN      from outside of tire rim to outside of tire rim that is greater than 50 inches
VEHICLE:     but not more than 65 inches. Alterations after manufacturing shall not be used
             to determine if said vehicle is a Class 2 All-Terrain Vehicle herein.
COMMUNITY    An event organized by the city or a community-based organization and that is
EVENT:       open to the general public.
DRIVER:      A person, with a valid driver’s license, driving and having physical control
             over a class 2 all-terrain vehicle or a utility task vehicle.
OPERATE or   To ride in or on and have control of a vehicle.
OPERATING:
OPERATOR:    The person who operates or is in or on and has control of a vehicle.
OWNER:       A person, other than a lien holder, having a property interest in, or title to,
             a vehicle, who is entitled to the use or possession of such vehicle.
SNOWMOBILES: A self- propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice steered by skis or
             runners.
             As defined by M.S. § 169.045, Subd. 1(3), UTILITY TASK VEHICLE shall mean a
             side-by-side, four-wheel drive, off-road vehicle, that when originally
UTILITY TASK manufactured, has four wheels, is propelled by an internal combustion engine
VEHICLE:     with a piston displacement capacity of 1,200 cubic centimeters or less, and has
             a total dry weight of 1,800 but less than 2,600 pounds. Alterations after
             manufacturing shall not be used to determine if said vehicle is an Utility Task
             Vehicle herein. (Ord. 184, 6-8-2021)
 
6-3-2: SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES:
   A.   Regulation. The use and operation of SNOWMOBILES and ALL-TERRAIN
VEHICLES or ATVs, within the city limits is hereby regulated as set forth in
this part.
   B.   State Snowmobile And all-Terrain Vehicle Laws And Statutes Adopted.
      1.   The state snowmobile laws, M.S. §§ 84.81 through 84.915, as they may
be amended from time to time; the game laws relating to the use of snowmobiles,
M.S. §§ 100.26 and 100.29, as they may be amended from time to time; and Minn.
Rules Parts 6100.5000 to 6100.5800, as they may be amended from time to time,
are hereby adopted and made part of this chapter by reference.
      2.   The state all-terrain vehicle laws, M.S. §§ 84.92 through 84.929, as
they may be amended from time to time; the game laws relating to the use of
all-terrain vehicles, M.S. §§ 100.26 and 100.29, as they may be amended from
time to time; and Minn. Rules Parts 6100.5000 to 6100.5800, as they may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted and made part of this chapter by
reference.
   C.   Prohibited Operation.
      1.   It is unlawful to operate a snowmobile or ATV upon a roadway in the
city, except to travel from the owner’s residence or place the snowmobile or
ATV is generally stored, in a direct route and crossing to and from a place of
destination, provided the place of destination is a place that the snowmobile
may be lawfully operated.
      2.   A direct crossing shall only be made as follows:
         a.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing.
         b.   The snowmobile or ATV is brought to a complete stop before
crossing the shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
         c.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
         d.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of the highway with another public street.
         e.   The front and rear lights must be illuminated.
      3.   Notwithstanding the prohibition of operating a snowmobile or ATV
upon a roadway to the contrary, the operation is hereby permitted in an
emergency, during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by automobile impractical.
   D.   Additional Prohibited Operations.
      1.   It shall be unlawful and punishable for any person to operate a
snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle within the city limits in violation of the
following restrictions:
         a.   On private property without the permission or consent of the
owner or occupant;
         b.   On the boulevard of any public street;
         c.   On a sidewalk, except that a direct crossing may be made in the
same manner as provided for direct crossing of a city street;
         d.   At a rate of speed in excess of 10 miles per hour;
         e.   Other than single file on a roadway, if two or more are being
driven in a group;
         f.   With metal traction devices on a roadway;
         g.   Other than at the extreme right-hand side of a roadway along the
curb;
         h.   On publicly owned land, including school land, park property,
playgrounds, and cemeteries;
         i.   Within 100 feet of any church property, nursing home, hospital,
skating rink or sliding area, or in any other area where the operation would
conflict or interfere with normal use of the property or would endanger persons
or property;
         j.   To tow any person or object except through use of a rigid tow bar
attached to the rear of the snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle;
         k.   To intentionally drive, chase, run over, or kill any animal with
a snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle;
         l.   To operate an ATV on a public street without a valid driver’s
license, except as permitted herein this chapter.
      2.   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile or an ATV to permit the
snowmobile or ATV to be operated contrary to the provisions of this section.
   E.   Hours Of Operation. It is unlawful to operate a snowmobile or ATV
within the city from 12:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m., except in an emergency.
   F.   Required Equipment.
      1.   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
 
                            A device which, when pressure is removed from the
SAFETY OR DEADMAN THROTTLE: engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to
                            be disengaged from the driving mechanism.
 
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile or ATV unless
it is equipped with the following:
         a.   At all times and weather conditions, at least one clear lamp
attached to the front (with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles
at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness under
normal atmospheric conditions) and at least one red tail lamp (having a minimum
candle power of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions).
         b.   Reflective materials at least 16 square inches on each side,
forward of the handlebars, or steering device of a snowmobile or ATV, and at
the highest practical point on any towed object, so as to reflect light at a 90
degree angle.
         c.   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold
the snowmobile or ATV under any condition of operation.
         d.   Any sled, trailer, or other device being towed must be equipped
with reflective materials as required by laws and regulations of the State of
Minnesota.
         e.   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce
the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cut out, bypass, straight pipe, or similar device on
a snowmobile or ATV motor.
         f.   A safety or so-called deadman throttle in operating condition.
   G.   Unattended Snowmobile Or ATV. Every person leaving a snowmobile or ATV
unattended shall lock the ignition and remove the key from the ignition and
take the keys with them.
   H.   Minimum Age Of Operator. The operator shall comply with state laws
regarding age of operator requirements for snowmobiles and ATVs. (Ord. 184, 6-
8-2021)
6-3-3: CLASS 2 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND UTILITY TASK VEHICLES:
   A.   Permit Required.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a class 2 all-terrain
vehicle or a utility task vehicle on any roadways and intersections in the city
without having first obtained a permit, as provided in this chapter. Persons
who obtain a permit hereunder are authorized to operate a class 2 all-terrain
vehicle or a utility task vehicle on designated roadways or portions, as
identified in herein.
      2.   Every class 2 All-terrain vehicle or utility task vehicle operator
must have proof of insurance in possession while operating the class 2 all-
terrain vehicle or utility task vehicle on designated streets and shall produce
such proof of insurance on demand of a police officer, as specified in M.S. §
169.791.
   B.   Permits.
      1.   Operator permits. All persons operating a class 2 all-terrain
vehicle or a utility task vehicle that are not being operated in connection
with a community event must first obtain an operator permit from the city.
         a.   Application. The application shall be made on a form supplied by
the city and shall contain the following:
            (1)   The name and address of the applicant and address of where
the vehicle is stored if different than applicant’s home address;
            (2)   The make, model name, year, serial number and DNR
registration number of the class 2 all-terrain vehicle or utility task vehicle;
            (3)   The applicant’s driver’s license number;
            (4)   Proof of insurance in compliance with M.S. § 65B.48;
            (5)   Payment of the permit fee in an amount established by
resolution of the City Council, and any amendments thereto; and
            (6)   Such other information as the city may require.
      2.   Term of permit. Operator permits shall be granted for a period of
three years. The operator may seek a renewal after said three-year period from
the city. Operator permits shall expire on December 31 of the third year.
      3.   Operator permit conditions. No operator permit shall be granted or
renewed unless the following conditions are met:
         a.   The city is in receipt of a complete application and permit fee
as provided by this chapter;
         b.   The applicant is 16 years of age or older and provides a valid
driver’s license;
         c.   The applicant provides proof of insurance in compliance with M.S.
§ 65B.48;
         d.   The class 2 all-terrain vehicle or utility task vehicle
identified in the application is in good working condition and safe for the
transportation of passengers; and
         e.   The vehicle is not in such a state as to create unreasonably loud
grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise.
      4.   Community event permits. Operators of a class 2 all-terrain vehicle
or utility task vehicle in connection with a community event are not required
to obtain individual operator permits.
   C.   Occupants. The number of occupants in the class 2 all-terrain vehicle
or utility task vehicle shall not exceed the design occupant load. Each
occupant must be seated in a seat designed for occupants and seatbelts must
always be worn by the driver and all passengers. A driver and all passengers
under the age of 18 must wear a helmet (Department of Transportation-approved)
while riding on the roadway.
   D.   Designated Roadways And Intersections. Class 2 all-terrain vehicles or
utility task vehicles that are permitted hereunder may be operated within the
city on public roadways. Class 2 all-terrain vehicles or utility task vehicles
must not be operated on state trunk highways or county roads, unless such
highways or roads are under the city’s jurisdiction through the issuance of a
permit or approval to the city from the county or the Minnesota Department of
Transportation and the class 2 all-terrain vehicle or utility task vehicle is
listed on the community event permit issued by the city. The operator of any
class 2 all-terrain vehicle or utility task vehicle permitted hereunder may
make a direct crossing of any intersecting roadways. Operators must exercise
all due care to avoid travel on roadways with a high frequency of automobile
usage.
   E.   Times Of Operation. Class 2 all-terrain vehicles or utility task
vehicles permitted hereunder may only be operated on designated roadways and
intersections from sunrise to 10:00 p.m.
   F.   Application Of Traffic Laws. Persons operating a class 2 all-terrain
vehicle or a utility task vehicle on designated roadways and intersections have
all the rights and duties applicable to drivers or operators of any other motor
vehicle under the provisions of any ordinance of the city and any state laws,
except when these provisions cannot reasonably be applied to class 2 all-
terrain vehicle or utility task vehicles.
   G.   Operation.
      1.   All class 2 all-terrain vehicles or utility task vehicles shall be
operated at all times in the proper traffic lane and not exceed the designated
speed limit.
      2.   Operators should operate the vehicles at prudent speeds and always
exercise due care and control of the vehicle.
      3.   Operators are prohibited from allowing any passengers on an attached
trailer to a class 2 all-terrain vehicles or utility task vehicles permitted
hereunder while operating such vehicles on designated roadways and
intersections.
      4.   All class 2 all-terrain vehicle or utility task vehicles must be in
good working condition and safe for the transportation of passengers.
      5.   All class 2 all-terrain vehicle or utility task vehicles must not be
in such a state as to create unreasonably loud grating, grinding, rattling, or
other noise.
   H.   Required Equipment. It is unlawful for any person to operate a class 2
all-terrain vehicle or utility task vehicles unless it is equipped with the
following:
      1.   At all times and weather conditions: headlights, taillights, turn
signals, and rear-facing brake lights; and
      2.   Windscreen, windshield, or eye protection.
   I.   Operation On Sidewalks And Trails. No person shall operate a class 2
all-terrain vehicle or a utility task vehicle on a public sidewalk or trail
unless otherwise authorized by the city.
   J.   Suspension Or Revocation Of A Permit. The Chief of Police may suspend
or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a finding that the permit holder has
violated any of the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Ordinance 169, or if
there is evidence that the operator cannot safely operate the class 2 all-
terrain vehicle or utility task vehicle on designated roadways. A suspension or
revocation may be reviewed by appeal to the City Council.
   K.   No Assumption Of Liability. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
as an assumption of liability by the city for injuries to persons or property
which may result from the operation of any class 2 all-terrain vehicle or
utility task vehicle by a permit holder or the failure by the Chief of Police
or City Council to suspend or revoke a permit.
   L.   Penalty. In addition to the revocation or suspension of the permit, any
person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 184, 6-8-2021)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Ice And Snow On Public Sidewalks
7-1-2: Construction Of Streets, Sidewalks, Curbs And Gutters
7-1-3: Street Obstructions
7-1-4: Penalty
7-1-1: ICE AND SNOW ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Ice And Snow A Nuisance: All snow and ice remaining upon public
sidewalks is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance and shall be
abated by the owner or tenant of the abutting private property within forty
eight (48) hours after such snow or ice has ceased to be deposited.
   B.   City To Remove Snow And Ice: The City may cause to be removed from all
public sidewalks, beginning forty eight (48) hours after snow or ice has ceased
to fall, all snow or ice which may be discovered thereon, and it shall keep a
record of the cost of such removal and the private property adjacent to which
such accumulations were found and removed.
   C.   Cost Of Removal To Be Assessed: The City Clerk shall, upon direction of
the Council, and on receipt of the information provided for in the preceding
subsection, extend the cost of such removal of snow or ice as a special
assessment against the lots or parcel of ground abutting on walks which were
cleared, and such special assessments shall at the time of certifying taxes to
the County Auditor be certified for collection as other special assessments are
certified and collected.
   D.   Civil Suit For Cost Of Removal: The City Attorney shall, in the
alternative, upon direction of the Council, bring suit in a court of competent
jurisdiction to recover from the persons owning land adjacent to which
sidewalks were cleared, as provided in subsection B of this section, the cost
of such clearing and the cost and disbursement of a civil action therefor.
(1988 Code § 7.05)
7-1-2: CONSTRUCTION OF STREETS, SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND GUTTERS:
   A.   Methods Of Procedure:
      1.   Abutting or affected property owners may contract for, construct or
reconstruct roadway surfacing, sidewalk or curb and gutter in accordance with
this section if advance payment is made therefor or arrangements for payment
considered adequate by the City are completed in advance.
      2.   With or without petition by the methods set forth in the Local
Improvement Code of Minnesota Statutes, presently beginning with section
429.011, as the same may from time to time be amended. (1988 Code § 7.06)
      3.   The City may inspect sidewalks, proposed sidewalk areas, curb and
gutter or proposed curb and gutter areas. The City Council shall have the power
as specified in section 429.021 of Minnesota Statutes Annotated to order
construction of sidewalks or curb and gutter and may require repair,
reconstruction and maintenance of existing sidewalks or curb and gutter. The
City may assess the costs of such construction or improvements to the abutting
or benefited property owner. Abutting or affected property owners may
construct, reconstruct or contract for roadway surfacing, sidewalk or curb and
gutter as provided in this section. (Ord. 51, 2nd Series, 12-1-1998)
   B.   Permit Required: It is a misdemeanor to construct or reconstruct a
sidewalk, curb and gutter, driveway, or roadway surfacing in any street or
other public property in the City without a permit in writing from the City.
Application for such permit shall be made on forms approved and provided by the
City and shall sufficiently describe the contemplated improvements, the
contemplated date of beginning of work, and the length of time required to
complete the same; provided, that no permit shall be required for any such
improvement ordered installed by the Council. All such applications shall
contain an agreement by the applicant to be bound by this chapter and plans and
specifications consistent with the provisions of this chapter and good
engineering practices shall also accompany the application. A permit from the
City shall not relieve the holder from damages to the person or property of
another caused by such work.
   C.   Specifications And Standards: All construction and reconstruction of
roadway surfacing, sidewalk and curb and gutter improvements, including curb
cuts, shall be strictly in accordance with specifications and standards on file
in the Office of the City Clerk and open to inspection and copying there. Such
specifications and standards may be amended from time to time by the City, but
shall be uniformly enforced.
   D.   Inspection: The City shall inspect such improvements as deemed
necessary or advisable. Any work not done according to the applicable
specifications and standards shall be removed and corrected at the expense of
the permit holder. Any work done hereunder may be stopped by the City if found
to be unsatisfactory or not in accordance with the specifications and
standards, but this shall not place a continuing burden upon the City to
inspect or supervise such work. (1988 Code § 7.06)
7-1-3: STREET OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Obstructions: It is a misdemeanor for any person to place, deposit,
display or offer for sale, any fence, goods or other obstructions upon, over,
across or under any street (including boulevards) without first having obtained
a written permit from the Council, and then only in compliance in all respects
with the terms and conditions of such permit, and taking precautionary measures
for the protection of the public. An electrical cord or device of any kind is
hereby included, but not by way of limitation, within the definition of an
obstruction.
   B.   Fires: It is a misdemeanor for any person to build or maintain a fire
upon a street.
   C.   Dumping In Streets: It is a misdemeanor for any person to throw or
deposit in any street any nails, dirt, glass or glassware, cans, discarded
cloth or clothing, metal scraps, garbage, leaves, grass or tree limbs, paper or
paper products, shreds or rubbish, oil, grease or other petroleum products, or
to empty any water containing salt or other injurious chemical thereon. It is a
violation of this section to haul any such material, inadequately enclosed or
covered, thereby permitting the same to fall upon streets. It is also a
violation of this section to place or store any building materials or waste
resulting from building construction or demolition on any street without first
having obtained a written permit from the Council.
   D.   Signs And Other Structures: It is a misdemeanor for any person to place
or maintain a sign, advertisement, or other structure in any street without
first having obtained a written permit from the Council. In a district zoned
for commercial or industrial enterprises, special permission allowing an
applicant to erect and maintain signs overhanging the street may be granted
upon such terms and conditions as may be set forth in the zoning or
construction provisions of this Code.
   E.   Placing Snow Or Ice In Roadway Or On Sidewalk:
      1.   It is a misdemeanor for any person, not acting under a specific
contract with the City or without special permission from the City, to remove
snow or ice from private property and place the same in any roadway or on a
sidewalk.
      2.   Where permission is granted by the City, the person to whom such
permission is granted shall be initially responsible for payment of all direct
or indirect costs of removing the snow or ice from the street or sidewalk. If
not paid, collection shall be by civil action or assessment against the
benefited property as any other special assessment.
   F.   Continuing Violation: Each day that any person continues in violation
of this section shall be a separate offense and punishable as such.
   G.   Condition: Before granting any permit under any of the provisions of
this section, the Council may impose such insurance or bonding conditions
thereon as it, considering the projected danger to public or private property
or to persons, deems proper for safeguarding such persons and property. Such
insurance or bond shall also protect the City from any suit, action or cause of
action arising by reason of such obstruction. (1988 Code § 7.07)
7-1-4: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
   A.   Where the specific section, subsection, paragraph or provision
specifically makes violation a misdemeanor, he shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances
so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, he shall be
punished as for a misdemeanor; where he stands convicted of violation of any
provision of this chapter, he shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
   B.   As to any violation not constituting a misdemeanor under the provisions
of subsection A of this section, he shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor. (1988 Code § 7.99; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Unlawful Act
7-2-2: Application; Investigation
7-2-3: Manner Of Performance
7-2-4: Abandonment
7-2-5: Insurance; Indemnification; Bond
7-2-6: Issuance Of Permit
7-2-7: Cost Adjustment; Warranty
7-2-8: Assessment
7-2-9: Penalty
7-2-1: UNLAWFUL ACT:
It is a misdemeanor for any person, except: a) a City employee acting within
the course and scope of his employment, b) a contractor acting within the
course and scope of a contract with the City, or c) a franchisee acting within
the course and scope of its franchise from the City, to make any excavation,
opening or tunnel in, over, across or under a street or other public property
without first having obtained a written permit from the City Clerk as herein
provided. (1988 Code § 7.08)
7-2-2: APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Application: Application for a permit to make a street opening or
excavation shall describe with reasonable particularity the name and address of
the applicant, the place of the proposed excavation, its purpose and size, the
name and address of all owners, and the legal description of the premises to be
served by the excavation, and such other information as may be necessary or
desirable to facilitate the investigation, estimate costs, and prepare an
agreement. Applications shall be accepted from, and permits issued to, all of
the owners of the premises to be served by the excavation; provided, that if
the owners will not actually perform the work, their contractor or other person
must make the application as their agent.
   B.   Investigation: The City Clerk shall refer the application to the Street
Superintendent and/or City Engineer who shall cause such investigation to be
made as he may deem necessary to determine the estimated cost of repair,
including backfilling, compacting, resurfacing and replacement, and the time
and manner of procedure and the time limitation upon such excavation. The
Street Superintendent and/or City Engineer shall estimate the cost, including
temporary and permanent repairs due to weather and other conditions, and the
cost of such investigation shall be included in the estimate. (1988 Code §
7.08)
7-2-3: MANNER OF PERFORMANCE:
All temporary and permanent repairs, including backfilling, compacting, and
resurfacing, shall be made, or contracted for, by the permittee strictly in
accordance with specifications for street opening repairs as promulgated by the
City and under the direction of the Street Superintendent and/or City Engineer.
If the Street Superintendent and/or City Engineer finds that those
specifications are not being strictly adhered to, he shall stop the work
immediately and it shall be treated as abandoned. The Street Superintendent
and/or City Engineer shall endorse the permit as satisfactorily completed or
abandoned. The specifications for street opening repairs and the duties of the
Street Superintendent and/or City Engineer shall apply equally to all
excavations by permittees, City employees, contractors with the City, and
franchisees. (1988 Code § 7.08)
7-2-4: ABANDONMENT:
Work shall progress expeditiously to completion in accordance with any time
limitation placed thereon so as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience to the
public. In the event that work is not performed in accordance with the permit,
or shall cease or be abandoned, the City Clerk may give notice in writing to
the permittee(s) to complete the work within seven (7) days or the City will
perform the work in which case the cost thereof shall be a continuing
obligation, jointly and severally, of the permittee and owners of the premises
to be served. (1988 Code § 7.08; amd. 1996 Code)
7-2-5: INSURANCE; INDEMNIFICATION; BOND:
No permit shall be issued until:
   A.   Insurance: The applicant has furnished the City satisfactory evidence
in writing that the applicant will keep in effect public liability insurance of
not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for any person, and one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for any occurrence, and property damage
insurance of not less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), issued by an
insurance company authorized to do business in the State of Minnesota and on
which the City is named as a co-insured, and
   B.   Indemnification: The applicant and all owners have agreed in writing to
indemnify and hold the City harmless from any liability for injury or damage
arising out of the action of the applicant in performance of the work, or any
expense whatsoever incurred by the City incident to a claim or action brought
or commenced by any person arising therefrom, and
   C.   Bond: A surety bond payable to the City in the amount of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00) is filed with the City Clerk insuring performance in
accordance with the permit. (1988 Code § 7.08)
7-2-6: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The City Clerk shall issue such permit only after:
   A.   Completion of such investigation,
   B.   Payment by the applicant in advance of all estimated costs to be
incurred by the City,
   C.   Agreement by the applicant and owners to the conditions of time and
manner of performance,
   D.   Agreement by the applicant and owners to pay all actual costs of
repairs over and above the estimate,
   E.   Agreement in writing by the applicant and owners to be bound by all of
the provisions of this chapter and the specifications hereinbefore referred to,
and
   F.   Agreement by the applicant(s) to such other and additional conditions
as the Council may deem necessary. (1988 Code § 7.08)
7-2-7: COST ADJUSTMENT; WARRANTY:
Within sixty (60) days following completion of permanent repairs, the City
Clerk shall determine actual costs of repairs, including cost of investigation,
and prepare and furnish to such permittee(s) an itemized statement thereof and
claim additional payment from, or make refund (without interest) to, the
permittee(s), as the case may be. The permittee(s) shall be responsible for any
damages by way of settlement or defect in the resurfacing for a period of one
year following the completion of the work. (1988 Code § 7.08)
7-2-8: ASSESSMENT:
Any uncollected costs to the City may, at the option of the City, be collected
in a civil action, or certified as a special assessment. (1988 Code § 7.08)
7-2-9: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
   A.   Where the specific section, subsection, paragraph or provision
specifically makes violation a misdemeanor, he shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances
so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, he shall be
punished as for a misdemeanor; where he stands convicted of violation of any
provision of this chapter, he shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
   B.   As to any violation not constituting a misdemeanor under the provisions
of subsection A of this section, he shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor. (1988 Code § 7.99; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TREES, SHRUBS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
7-3-1: City To Control Tree Planting
7-3-2: Permit Required
7-3-3: Duty Of Property Owners
7-3-4: City May Order Work Done
7-3-5: Assessment
7-3-6: Penalty
7-3-7: Noxious Or Poisonous Vegetation
7-3-1: CITY TO CONTROL TREE PLANTING:
The City shall have control and supervision of planting shrubs and trees upon,
or overhanging, all the streets or other public property. The City may
establish and enforce uniform standards relating to the kinds and types of
trees to be planted and the placement thereof. Such standards shall be kept on
file in the Office of the City Clerk and may be revised from time to time by
action of the Council upon the recommendation of the Park and Recreation Board.
(1988 Code § 7.09)
7-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to plant or remove trees or other plants which
are upon City property, including rights-of-way, without first procuring from
the City a permit in writing to do so. (1988 Code § 7.09)
7-3-3: DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS:
   A.   Grass And Weeds: Every owner of property abutting on any street shall
cause the grass and weeds to be cut from the line of such property nearest to
such street to the center of such street. If the grass or weeds in such a place
attain a height in excess of six inches (6") it shall be prima facie evidence
of a failure to comply with this section. Every owner of property abutting on
any street shall, subject to the provision herein requiring a permit therefor,
trim, cut and otherwise maintain all trees and shrubs from the line of such
property nearest to such street to the center of such street. (1988 Code §
7.09; amd. Ord. 84, 2nd Series, 8-8-2006)
   B.   Dangerous And Hazardous Trees: When the Parks Director for the City of
Sleepy Eye determines that there are dangerous or hazardous trees located on
the boulevard or in the area from a property owner's property line to the
center of the street, he shall notify the owner of said abutting property that
the trees must be removed. The cost of the removal of the trees, together with
the removal of the stump, shall be split on a 50-50 basis between the abutting
property owner and the City of Sleepy Eye. In the event that the abutting
property owner refuses to remove the tree or refuses to make payment for fifty
percent (50%), the remaining sections of this title and chapter shall apply.
(Ord. 84, 2nd Series, 8-8-2006)
7-3-4: CITY MAY ORDER WORK DONE:
The City may, in cases of failure to comply with this chapter, perform such
work with employees, agents, or independent contractors of the City, keeping an
accurate account of the cost thereof for each lot, piece or parcel of land
abutting upon such street. (1988 Code § 7.09; amd. Ord. 153, 2nd Series, 6-9-
2019)
7-3-5: ASSESSMENT:
If such maintenance work is performed by the City as set forth in section
7-3-4 of this chapter, the City Clerk shall forthwith upon completion thereof
ascertain the cost attributable to each lot, piece or parcel of abutting land.
The City Clerk shall, at the next regular meeting thereof, present such
certificate to the Council and obtain its approval thereof. When such
certificate has been approved it shall be extended as to the cost therein
stated as a special assessment against such abutting land and such special
assessment shall, at the time of certifying taxes to the County Auditor, be
certified for collection as other special assessments are certified and
collected. (1988 Code § 7.09)
7-3-6: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
   A.   Where the specific section, subsection, paragraph or provision
specifically makes violation a misdemeanor, he shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances
so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, he shall be
punished as for a misdemeanor; where he stands convicted of violation of any
provision of this chapter, he shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
   B.   As to any violation not constituting a misdemeanor under the provisions
of subsection A of this section, he shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor. (1988 Code § 7.99; amd. 1996 Code)
7-3-7: NOXIOUS OR POISONOUS VEGETATION:
In any area the existence of any noxious or poisonous vegetation, such as
poison ivy, ragweed, or other poisonous plants, or any weeds, grass over six
inches (6") tall, brush or plants, which are a fire hazard or otherwise
detrimental to the health or appearance of the neighborhood must be cut and
eliminated. Failure to eliminate the condition will allow the City to proceed
under sections
7-3-4,
7-3-5, and
7-3-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 77, 2nd Series, 5-10-2005)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC PARKS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Rules And Regulations Adopted
7-4-2: Hours
7-4-3: Glass Beverage Containers Prohibited
7-4-4: Penalty
7-4-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The Council may by resolution adopt, and from time to time amend, rules and
regulations governing public parks. It is unlawful to violate such rules and
regulations as are conspicuously sign- posted in such parks. (1988 Code §
10.51)
7-4-2: HOURS:
It is unlawful for any person to park, be in or remain in, or leave any vehicle
in any park between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. of the day following; provided, however, that this section shall not
apply to those vehicles or persons involved in organized activities which are
authorized by permit issued by the City to remain in a park, or to persons
equipped with camping vehicles or tents in designated areas; provided, that
such camping shall be limited to a maximum of seven (7) days. (1988 Code §
10.53)
7-4-3: GLASS BEVERAGE CONTAINERS PROHIBITED:
It is a petty misdemeanor for any person to possess, keep, or allow to be kept
within the area of any City park, beverage containers made partially or
entirely of glass, or any other material which is breakable and results in
sharp or potentially harmful pieces when broken. This section shall apply to
bringing any such beverage containers into a City park, the use of such a
beverage container within the City park, or the actual or constructive
possession of such a beverage container within a City park. Notice shall be
posted once each year in one location in each City park. (1988 Code § 10.53)
7-4-4: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act when such
failure is prohibited or declared unlawful by a Code adopted by reference by
this chapter, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof. (1988
Code § 10.99)
CHAPTER 5
FRANCHISES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definition
7-5-2: Franchise Ordinances
7-5-3: Power Of Regulation Reserved
7-5-4: Conditions In Every Franchise
7-5-5: Further Provisions Of Franchises
7-5-6: Penalty
7-5-1: DEFINITION:
The term "franchise" as used in this chapter shall be construed to mean any
special privileges granted to any person in, over, upon, or under any of the
streets or public places of the City, whether such privilege has heretofore
been granted by it or by the State of Minnesota, or shall hereafter be granted
by the City or by the State of Minnesota. (1988 Code § 2.72)
7-5-2: FRANCHISE ORDINANCES:
The Council may grant franchises by ordinance. Franchise rights shall always be
subject to the superior right of the public to the use of streets and public
places. All persons desiring to make any burdensome use of the streets or
public places, inconsistent with the public's right in such places, or desiring
the privilege of placing in, over, upon, or under any street or public place
any permanent or semi-permanent fixtures for the purpose of constructing or
operating railways, telegraphing, or transmitting electricity, or transporting
by pneumatic tubes, or for furnishing to the City or its inhabitants or any
portion thereof, transportation facilities, water, light, heat, power, gas, or
any other such utility, or for any other purpose, shall be required to obtain a
franchise before proceeding to make such use of the streets or public places or
before proceeding to place such fixtures in such places. (1988 Code § 2.72)
7-5-3: POWER OF REGULATION RESERVED:
The City shall have the right and power to regulate and control the exercise by
any person of any franchise however acquired and whether such franchise has
been heretofore granted by it or by the State of Minnesota. (1988 Code § 2.72)
7-5-4: CONDITIONS IN EVERY FRANCHISE:
All conditions specified in this chapter shall be a part of every franchise
even though they may not be expressly contained in the franchise:
   A.   Comply With Code And Charter: That the grantee shall be subject to and
will perform on its part all the terms of this chapter and will comply with all
pertinent provisions of the City Charter and this Code, as the same may from
time to time be amended.
   B.   Fixed Fares, Rates And Charges: That the grantee shall in no case claim
or pretend to exercise any power to fix fares, rates, and charges; but that
such fares, rates, and charges shall at all times be just, fair and reasonable
for the services rendered and shall in all cases be fixed and from time to time
changed, unless regulated by an agency of the State of Minnesota, in the manner
following:
      1.   A reasonable rate shall be construed to be one which will, with
efficient management, normally yield above all operating expenses and
depreciation, a fair return upon all money invested.
      2.   If possible, maximum rates and charges shall be arrived at by direct
negotiation with the Council.
      3.   If direct negotiations fail to produce agreement, the Council shall,
not less than thirty (30) days before the expiration of any existing rate
schedule or agreement, appoint an expert as its representative, the franchisee
shall likewise appoint an expert as its representative and the two (2) of them
shall appoint a third person, preferably an expert, and the three (3) of them
shall constitute a Board of Arbitration. The board shall report its findings as
soon as possible and the rates and charges it shall agree upon by majority vote
shall be legal and binding, subject only to review by a court of competent
jurisdiction upon application of one of the parties.
   C.   Reasonable Extensions Required: That the Council shall have the right
to require reasonable extensions of any public service system from time to
time, and to make such rules and regulations as may be required to secure
adequate and proper service and to provide sufficient accommodations for the
public.
   D.   No Stock Issued: That the grantee shall not issue any capital stock on
account of the franchise or the value thereof, and that the grantee shall have
no right to receive upon condemnation proceedings brought by the City to
acquire the public utility exercising such franchise, any return on account of
the franchise or its value.
   E.   Sale Or Lease Of Franchise: That no sale or lease of said franchise
shall be effective until the assignee or lessee shall have filed with the City
an instrument, duly executed, reciting the facts of such sale or lease,
accepting the terms of the franchise, and agreeing to perform all the
conditions required of the grantee thereunder.
   F.   Council Authority: That every grant in said franchise contained of
permission for the erection of poles, masts, or other fixtures in the streets
and for the attachment of wires thereto, or for the laying of tracks in, or of
pipes or conduits under the streets or public places, or for the placing in the
streets or other public places of any permanent or semi-permanent fixtures
whatsoever, shall be subject to the conditions that the Council shall have the
power to require such alterations therein, or relocation or rerouting thereof,
as the Council may at any time deem necessary for the safety, health, or
convenience of the public, and particularly that it shall have the power to
require the removal of poles, masts, and other fixtures bearing wires and the
placing underground of all facilities for whatsoever purpose used.
   G.   City Acquisition: Every franchise shall contain a provision granting
the City the right to acquire the same in accordance with statute.
   H.   Pay Fees To City: That the franchisee may be obligated by the City to
pay the City fees to raise revenue or defray increased costs accruing as a
result of utility operations, or both, including, but not limited to, a sum of
money based upon gross operating revenues or gross earnings from its operations
in the City. (1988 Code § 2.72)
7-5-5: FURTHER PROVISIONS OF FRANCHISES:
The enumeration and specification of particular matters which must be included
in every franchise or renewal or extension thereof, shall not be construed as
impairing the right of the City to insert in any such franchise or renewal or
extension thereof such other and further conditions and restrictions as the
Council may deem proper to protect the City's interests, nor shall anything
contained in this chapter limit any right or power possessed by the City over
existing franchises. (1988 Code § 2.72)
7-5-6: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof. (1988 Code § 2.99)
CHAPTER 6
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
7-6-1: Findings And Purpose
7-6-2: Election To Manage The Public Rights-of-Way
7-6-3: Definitions
7-6-4: Fees
7-6-5: Registration
7-6-6: Permit Required, Bond; Exceptions
7-6-7: Diligence In Performing Work
7-6-8: Standards During Construction Or Installation
7-6-9: Standards For Small Wireless Facilities
7-6-10: Compatibility Standards
7-6-11: Repair And Restoration
7-6-12: Permit Limitations
7-6-13: Denial of Permit
7-6-14: Emergency Work
7-6-15: Revocation Of Permits
7-6-16: Appeal
7-6-17: Mapping
7-6-18: Location Of Facilities And Equipment
7-6-19: Relocation
7-6-20: Right-Of-Way Vacation
7-6-21: Abandoned And Unusable Equipment
7-6-22: Indemnification and Liability
7-6-23: Reservation of Regulatory and Police Powers
7-6-24: Severability
7-6-25: Franchise Holders
7-6-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
The City holds the rights-of-way within its geographical boundaries as an asset
in trust for its citizens. The City and other public entities have invested
substantial dollars in public funds to build and maintain improvements within
the rights-of-way. The City recognizes that placing other utility equipment in
the rights-of-way for the purpose of delivering services to the citizens of the
City is a public use of this property for the public good. Although such
services are necessary or convenient for the citizens, other persons or
entities receive revenue and/or profit through their use of public property.
Although the installation of such service delivery facilities is in most cases
a necessary and proper use of rights-of-way, the City must regulate and manage
such uses.
To provide for the health, safety and well-being of its citizens, and to ensure
the structural integrity of its streets, utilities and the appropriate use of
the rights-of-way, the City strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of
good repair and free from unnecessary encumbrances. Although the general
population bears the financial burden for the upkeep of the rights-of-way, one
of the causes for the early and excessive deterioration of its rights-of- way
is frequent excavation.
The Minnesota Legislature has recognized that it is in the public’s interest
that the use and regulation of rights-of-way be carried out in a fair,
efficient, competitively neutral, and substantially uniform manner while
recognizing the regulation must reflect distinct engineering, construction,
operation, maintenance, and public and worker safety requirements and standards
applicable to various users of rights-of-way. Further, the Legislature has
determined that because increasing numbers of persons may seek usage of rights-
of-way, municipalities such as the City must be and have been authorized to
regulate use of rights-of-way. Consistent with this mandate, the City has
endeavored to model its right-of-way regulations consistent with those of
models enacted or under consideration by municipalities throughout the State.
Further, the City has endeavored to create competitively neutral rights-of-way
standards and regulations of general applicability. In response to the
foregoing facts, the City hereby enacts this chapter relating to right-of-way
management.
This chapter imposes reasonable regulations on the placement and maintenance of
equipment currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some
future time. It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of state and
federal agencies. Under this chapter, persons disturbing and obstructing the
rights-of-way will bear a fair share of the financial responsibility for their
integrity. Finally, this chapter provides for recovery of the City’s costs
associated with managing its rights-of-way. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-2: ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
In accordance with the authority granted to the City under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the City hereby elects to manage the
rights-of-way within its jurisdiction pursuant to this chapter. (Ord 148, 2nd
Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this subdivision, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended.
ABANDONED         A facility no longer in service or physically disconnected from a portion of
FACILITY:         the operating facility, or from any other facility, that is in use or still
                  carries service.
                  To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace a small wireless
COLLOCATE or      facility or other equipment on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
COLLOCATION:      wireless support structure or utility pole that is owned privately, or by the
                  City or other governmental unit.
                  The accelerated reduction of service life of the right-of-way caused by
DEGRADATION:      excavation or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
                  reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
                  did not occur.
                  Money paid to the City to cover the cost associated with a decrease in the
DEGRADATION COST: useful life of a public right-of-way caused by excavation or other means of
                  installation.
                  A condition that 1) poses a clear and immediate danger to life or health, or of
EMERGENCY:        a significant loss of property; or 2) requires immediate repair or replacement
                  in order to restore service to a customer.
                  Any tangible thing or asset used to install, repair or maintain facilities in
EQUIPMENT:        any right-of-way; but shall not include boulevard plantings or gardens planted
                  or maintained in the right-of-way between a person’s property and the street
                  curb.
EXCAVATE:         To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or penetrate any part of
                  a right-of-way.
FACILITY:         Any tangible asset in the public right-of-way required to provide utility or
                  telecommunication service.
                  The actual costs the City incurs in managing its rights-of-way, including such
                  costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering applicants; issuing,
                  processing, and verifying right-of-way or small wireless facility permit
                  applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects; maintaining,
                  supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-way work;
                  determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
                  inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
MANAGEMENT COST:  the work; and revoking right-of-way or small wireless facility permits.
                  Management costs do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
                  user for the use of the right-of-way, unreasonable fees of a third-party
                  contractor used by the City including fees tied to or based on customer counts,
                  access lines, or revenues generated by the right-of-way or for the City, the
                  fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of Minnesota Session
                  Laws 1997, Chapter 123; Minn. Stat. § 237.162 or § 237.163; or any ordinance
                  enacted under those sections, or the City fees and costs related to appeals.
MICRO WIRELESS    A small wireless facility that is no larger than 24-inches long,15-inches wide,
FACILITY:         and 12-inches high, and whose exterior antenna, if any, is no longer than 11-
                  inches.
                  An obstacle, blockage, or an object that impedes or prevents passage, progress,
OBSTRUCTION:      or to navigate around an object within the right-of-way, or otherwise
                  negatively impacting the general public’s engagement of the right -of-way.
PERMIT:           A permit issued pursuant to this section.
PERMIT HOLDER:    Any person to whom a permit to excavate or place equipment or facilities in a
                  right-of-way which has been granted by the City under this section.
PUBLIC WORKS      The City Public Works Director of the City of Sleepy Eye or their designee.
DIRECTOR:
REGISTRANT:       Any person who has or seeks to have its facilities or equipment located in any
                  right-of-way.
RESTORE or        The process by which the right-of-way and surrounding area, including pavement
RESTORATION:      and foundation, is returned to the condition that meets or exceeds the right-
                  of-way condition before the commencement of the work.
RESTORATION COST: Money paid to the City by a permit holder to cover the cost of restoration.
                  The surface and space above and below a public roadway, highway, street, alley,
RIGHT-OF-WAY or   cartway, bicycle lane, public sidewalk, boulevard or other areas intended for
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-  public use in which the City has an interest, including other dedicated rights-
WAY:              of-way for travel purposes and utility easements owned by the City for City
                  utility purposes.
                  Includes: 1) those services provided by a public utility as defined in Minn.
                  Stat. § 216B.02, Subdivisions 4 and 6; 2) services of a telecommunications
                  right-of-way user, including transporting of voice or data information; 3)
SERVICE or        services of cable communication systems as defined in Minn. Stat. Ch. 238; 4)
UTILITY SERVICE:  natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services provided by the
                  City; 5) services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
                  under Minn. Stat. Ch. 308A; and 6) water and sewer, including service laterals,
                  steam, cooling, or heating services.
                  A wireless facility that meets both of the following qualifications: 1) each
                  antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume
                  or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements, the antenna and all
                  its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of no more than six cubic
SMALL WIRELESS    feet; and 2) all other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
FACILITY:         facility, excluding electric meters, concealment elements, telecommunications
                  demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding equipment, power
                  transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical cable runs for the
                  connection of power and other services, and any equipment concealed from public
                  view within or behind an existing structure or concealment, is in aggregate no
                  more than 28 cubic feet in volume; or a micro wireless facility.
                  A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to
                  own or control a facility in the right-of-way that is used or is intended to be
                  used for providing wireless service, or transporting telecommunication or other
                  voice or data information. For purposes of this section, a cable communication
TELECOMMUNICATION system defined and regulated under Minn. Stat. Ch. 238, and telecommunication
RIGHT-OF-WAY      activities related to providing natural gas or electric energy services, a
USER:             public utility as defined in Minn. Stat. § 216B.02, a municipality, a municipal
                  gas or power agency organized under Minn. Stat. Ch. 453 and 453A, or a
                  cooperative electric association organized under Minn. Stat. Ch. 308A, are not
                  telecommunications right-of-way users for purposes of this section except to
                  the extent such entity is offering wireless service.
UTILITY POLE:     A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate telecommunications or
                  electric service.
                  Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision of wireless services
                  between user equipment and a wireless service network, including equipment
                  associated with wireless service, a radio transceiver, antenna, coaxial or
WIRELESS          fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and a small wireless
FACILITY:         facility, but not including wireless support structures, wireline backhaul
                  facilities, or cables between utility poles or wireless support structures, or
                  not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly associated with a specific
                  antenna.
                  Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless spectrum, including the use
                  of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means of a mobile device, that is
WIRELESS SERVICE: provided using wireless facilities. Wireless service does not include services
                  regulated under Title VI of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended,
                  including cable service.
WIRELESS SUPPORT  A new or existing structure in a right-of-way designed to support or capable of
STRUCTURE:        supporting small wireless facilities, as reasonably determined by the City.
WIRELINE BACKHAUL A facility used to transport communications data by wire from a wireless
FACILITY:         facility to a communications network. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
 
7-6-4: FEES:
Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this chapter in accordance
with a resolution of the City Council. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-5: REGISTRATION:
   A.   Annual Registration Required. No person shall construct, install,
repair, remove, relocate, obstruct or perform any work within any right-of-way
without first being registered pursuant to this Subdivision. Such registration
shall be made on an application form provided by the City and shall be
accompanied by the registration fee provided by City Council resolution. A
service or utility service operating under a franchise with the City shall
register pursuant to this Section but need not provide the registration
information required by Subdivision 5.B below if such information has been
submitted pursuant to the franchise agreement. A person who pays a franchise
fee to the City in accordance with a franchise agreement shall be exempt from
payment of a registration fee but will need to comply with the annual
registration requirement.
   B.   Registration Information. The registrant shall provide the following at
the time of registration and shall promptly notify the City of changes in such
information:
      1.   Registrant’s name, address, telephone number and Gopher One-Call
registration certificate number if required by State law.
      2.   Name, address and telephone number of the person responsible for
fulfilling the obligations of the registrant.
      3.   A Certificate of Insurance from a company licensed to do business in
the State of Minnesota providing coverage in the following amounts.
         a.   GENERAL LIABILITY: Public Liability, including premises, products
and complete operations. Bodily Injury Liability: $1,000,000 each person
$3,000,000 each occurrence. Property Damage Liability: $3,000,000 each
occurrence. Bodily Injury and Property and Damage Combined: $3,000,000 single
limit.
         b.   COMPREHENSIVE: Automobile Liability Insurance, including owned,
non- owned and hired vehicles. Bodily Injury Liability: $1,000,000 each person
$3,000,000 each occurrence. Property Damage Liability: $3,000,000 each
occurrence. In lieu of a) & b) Bodily Injury and Property Damage Combined:
$3,000,000 single limit.
Such certificate shall verify that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the: 1) use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees, and 2) placement and use of
equipment or facilities in the right-of-way by the registrant its officers,
agents, employees and permit holder, including but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
equipment and collapse of property. Such certificate shall also indicate the
registrant’s insurance is the primary coverage, shall name the City as an
additional insured as to whom the coverages required herein are in force and
applicable and for whom defense will be provided as to all such coverages. Such
certificate shall require that the City be notified 30 days prior to
cancellation or nonrenewal of the policy. Insurance must run concurrently
throughout the warranty period for the work performed.
      4.   24 hour emergency number.
      5.   An acknowledgment by the registrant of the indemnification pursuant
to Section
7-6-22 of this chapter.
      6.   Such other information the City may require.
   C.   Exceptions. The following are not subject to the requirements of this
Subdivision.
      1.   The Sleepy Eye Public Utilities Commission.
      2.   Persons performing work on behalf of the City.
      3.   Persons planting or maintaining boulevard plantings or gardens.
      4.   Persons engaged in snow removal activities.
      5.   Persons acting as agents, contractors or subcontractors for a
registrant who has properly registered in accordance with this Subdivision.
      6.   Persons performing concrete sidewalk and/or driveway construction/
reconstruction activities.
      7.   Other uses of the rights-of-way as authorized under the City Code of
the City of Sleepy Eye.
   D.   Term. Registrations issued pursuant to this section shall expire on
December 31 of each calendar year. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-6: PERMIT REQUIRED, BOND; EXCEPTIONS:
No person shall obstruct, excavate, dig, tunnel, trench, or install any
facilities, equipment or improvements above, on, or beneath the surface of any
right-of-way in the City or any property owned by the City without first
obtaining a permit pursuant to this subdivision.
   A.   Application. An application for a permit shall be made on forms
provided by the City and shall be accompanied by the fees as established by
City Council resolution. If the work is to be performed by an agent, contractor
or subcontractor on behalf of a registrant, such application shall be signed by
the registrant. The application shall also be accompanied by the following:
      1.   Scaled drawings showing the location of all facilities and
improvements proposed by the applicant.
      2.   A description of the methods that will be used for installation.
      3.   A proposed schedule for all work.
      4.   The location of any public streets, sidewalks or alleys that will be
temporarily closed to traffic during the work.
      5.   A traffic control plan that complies with The Minnesota Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MN MUTCD) traffic safety signing requirements.
      6.   The location of any public rights-of-way, streets, sidewalks,
boulevards, alleys or public utilities that will be disrupted by the work.
      7.   A description of methods for restoring any public improvements
disrupted by the work.
      8.   Permits will not be issued until all requirements of this section
have been received including original signature, proof of insurance, and surety
bond.
      9.   Any other information reasonably required by the Public Works
Director.
   B.   Security. For companies not operating under a franchise with the City,
a surety bond, letter of credit or cash deposit in the amount determined by the
Public Works Director but not less than $5,000, shall be required from each
applicant. A surety bond shall be from a corporate surety authorized to do
business in the State. Security required pursuant to this Subdivision (B) shall
be conditioned that the holder will perform the work in accordance with this
section and applicable regulations, will pay to the City any costs incurred by
the City in performing work pursuant to this section; and will indemnify and
save the City and its officers, agents and employees harmless against any and
all claims, judgment or other costs arising from any excavation and other work
covered by the permit or for which the City, the City Council or any City
officer may be liable by reason of any accident or injury to persons or
property through the fault of the permit holder, either in improperly guarding
the excavation or for any other injury resulting from the negligence of the
permit holder. The bond, letter of credit or cash deposit shall be released by
the City upon completion of the work and compliance with all conditions imposed
by the permit, except for permits allowing excavations within public streets
and rights-of-way, when such bond, letter of credit or cash deposit shall be
held for a period of 24 months to guaranty the adequacy of all restoration
work.
   C.   Permit Conditions and Issuance. The Public Works Director shall grant a
permit upon finding the work will comply with applicable subdivisions of this
chapter. The permit shall be kept on the site of the work while it is in
progress, in the custody of the individual in charge of the work. The permit
shall be exhibited upon request made by any City official or police officer.
The Public Works Director, or designee may impose reasonable conditions upon
the issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the public health, safety and welfare, to ensure the structural
integrity of the right-of-way, to protect the property and safety of other
users of the right-of-way, and to minimize the disruption and inconvenience to
the traveling public. No permit shall be issued to anyone who has failed to
register in accordance with Section
7-6-5 of this chapter.
   D.   A permit for any facility to be located in the right-of way will be
issued only if the Public Works Director finds the following:
      1.   The equipment will not disrupt traffic or pedestrian circulation;
      2.   The equipment will not create a safety hazard;
      3.   The location of the equipment minimizes impacts on adjacent
properties;
      4.   The equipment will not adversely impact the health, safety or
welfare of the community; and
      5.   The equipment will not interfere with public safety communications.
   E.   Exceptions. No permit shall be required for the following:
      1.   Landscaping work permitted by the City.
      2.   Snow removal activities.
      3.   Other uses of the rights-of-way as authorized under Section 6.30 of
the Sleepy Eye City Code.
   F.   Sleepy Eye Public Utilities Exceptions. The Sleepy Eye Public Utilities
Commission shall abide by all permit requirements of this section except for
the security payment and permit fee payment requirements.
   G.   Sidewalk and Driveway Exceptions. Persons performing concrete sidewalk
and/or driveway construction/reconstruction shall abide by all permit
requirements of this section except for the security payment and permit fee
payment. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-7: DILIGENCE IN PERFORMING WORK:
Work shall progress in an expeditious manner as reasonably permitted by weather
conditions until completion in order to avoid unnecessary inconvenience to the
public. In the event that the work is not performed in accordance with
applicable regulations pertaining to excavations and utility connections, or
the work is not done in an expeditious manner, or shall cease or be abandoned
without due cause, the City may, after 48 hour notice to the permit holder,
perform any emergency work as necessary, or otherwise make the work area safe
to the general public. The entire cost of such work shall be paid by the permit
holder upon demand made by the City. The financial guarantees made per Section
7-6-6(B) of this chapter may be used by the City to reimburse itself for the
City’s incurred costs including its private engineering consulting fees and
attorney fees to complete the work under this section. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-
9-2019)
7-6-8: STANDARDS DURING CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION:
The permit holder shall comply with the following standards when engaging in
the work.
   A.   Take such precautions as are necessary to avoid creating unsanitary
conditions. Observe and comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations.
   B.   Conduct the operations and perform the work in a manner as to ensure
the least obstruction and interference to traffic.
   C.   Take adequate precautions to ensure the safety of the general public
and those who require access to abutting property.
   D.   If required by the Public Works Director, notify adjoining property
owners prior to the commencement of work which may disrupt the use of and
access to such adjoining properties.
   E.   In all cases where construction work interferes with the normal use of
the construction area, provide for closing the construction area to traffic or
to afford it restricted use of the area and comply with MN MUTCD traffic safety
signing requirements.
   F.   Exercise precaution at all times for the protection of persons,
including employees and property.
   G.   Protect and identify excavations and work operations with barricade
flags, and if required, by flagmen in the daytime, and by warning lights at
night.
   H.   Provide proper trench protection as required by O.S.H.A. when necessary
and depending upon the type of soil, in order to prevent cave-ins endangering
life or tending to enlarge the excavation.
   I.   Protect the root growth of trees and shrubbery.
   J.   Installation of pipe or conduit under Portland Cement Concrete, asphalt
concrete, or other high-type bituminous pavements shall be done by jacking,
auguring or tunneling as directed by the Public Works Director unless otherwise
authorized. High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) sleeving shall be an acceptable
casing or sleeving material for telecommunications installations.
   K.   When removing Portland Cement Concrete, asphalt concrete or high-type
built-up bituminous surfacing, the pavement shall be removed on each side of
the trench or excavation a distance of one (1) foot beyond the trench width and
length, or to adjacent joint line as directed by a City representative in order
to provide a shoulder and solid foundation for the surface restoration.
   L.   All right-of-way surface cuts shall have a straight edge or neat
appearing opening that may require a full depth saw cut or otherwise approved
method directed by the City.
   M.   Excavations, trenches and jacking pits off the roadway or adjacent to
the roadway or curbing shall be shored and braced depending upon location and
soil stability, and as directed by the City.
   N.   Excavations, trenches and jacking pits shall be protected when
unattended to prevent entrance of surface drainage.
   O.   All backfilling must be placed in six (6) inch layers at optimum
moisture and compacted with the objective of attaining 100% modified proctor
density. Compaction shall be accomplished with pneumatic or vibrating
compactors as appropriate.
   P.   Backfill material shall be select grading material or material
specified by the Public Works Director. Backfilling with the material from the
excavation may be permitted provided such material is granular in nature and
acceptable to the Public Works Director.
   Q.   Compacted backfill shall be brought to subgrade elevation and shaped to
match pre-existing profile of the road. Backfill procedures shall provide for
no settlement. Settlement that occurs within a two-year warranty period shall
be repaired in a timely manner. The permit holder shall be notified by the City
within 15 calendar days to have necessary repairs performed to correct the
unsatisfactory condition. If permit holder cannot abate the repairs within the
specified time period, an approved Plan for Compliance must be filed with the
City. If remedial action is not taken, the City will correct the condition and
charge all costs incurred therein against the applicant.
   R.   Street and pedestrian traffic shall be maintained throughout
construction unless provided otherwise by the permit.
   S.   Upon completion, an inspection of the job site shall be made, and the
permit holder shall be responsible for any damages caused by equipment within
the general area of work.
   T.   Dirt or debris must be periodically removed during construction, and
upon completion of the project within 24 hours.
   U.   Equipment placed in the right of way shall meet the following
standards:
      1.   Be set back a minimum of ten (10) feet from the back of curb;
      2.   Be separated from a sidewalk by a minimum of two (2) feet;
      3.   Shall not be placed within a triangle formed by the two side lines
of the two intersecting streets at the face of the curb and a third line
crossing the first two at points forth (40) feet from their intersection;
      4.   Vegetative or other screening compatible with the surrounding area
shall be provided around the equipment if deemed necessary by the Public Works
Director.
   V.   Other reasonable standards and requirements of the Public Works
Director. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-9: STANDARDS FOR SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose and Findings. The City desires high quality wireless services
to accommodate the needs of residents and businesses. At the same time, the
City strives to minimize the negative impacts that small wireless facilities
can create. These negative impacts include, but are not limited to,
interference with right-of-way user sight lines, impacts to right-of-way user
circulation, incompatible aesthetics with the surrounding area, fall zone risk,
clear zone risk, creating navigation obstacles, interference with future travel
way expansion plans, interference with the delivery of other utility services,
interference with storm water management facilities, and increased noise
pollution.
Due to the many services that must be delivered within its limited area, the
City also strives to avoid unnecessary encumbrances within the public right-of-
way. The purpose of this Subdivision is to regulate wireless telecommunication
facilities within the public right-of-way in a manner that balances the desire
for service with aesthetic, public safety and right-of-way flexibility
concerns.
Public rights-of-way are appropriate locations for wireless telecommunication
facilities that present minimal impacts (i.e. small pole attachments that do
not require new poles, do not require pole extensions, and do not have
associated ground mounted equipment). Wireless telecommunication facilities
that require greater heights than can be afforded by existing poles in the
public right-of-way and that require ground mounted equipment are more
appropriately sited outside the public right-of-way.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   This chapter applies to the construction, modification, replacement,
removal and operation of small wireless facilities installed in the public
right-of-way.
      2.   This chapter does not apply to video service systems, wireline
services, or wireless facilities that are not small wireless facilities.
      3.   All references to small wireless facilities in this chapter shall
refer only to small wireless facilities in the right-of-way and not small
wireless facilities located anywhere outside of the right-of-way.
      4.   No person shall install, construct, modify, replace, or otherwise
place any small wireless facility within the public right-of-way except
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
      5.   Microwave, macro towers, and other wireless backhaul facilities are
not permitted within the right-of-way.
   C.   Administration. The Public Works Director is the principal City
official responsible for the administration of the rights-of-way and the small
wireless facility permits.
   D.   Agreements.
      1.   Any person desiring to place a new wireless support structure in the
right-of-way or collocate small wireless facilities on existing wireless
support structures in the right-of-way shall first obtain a right-of-way permit
from the City and must register as defined in Section
7-6-5 of this chapter.
      2.   Any person desiring to collocate small wireless facilities on
existing wireless support structures owned or controlled by the City shall
first enter into a standard small wireless facility collocation agreement.
      3.   No person shall install or place a small wireless facility in the
public right-of-way without first having obtained a small wireless facility
permit.
   E.   Locations.
      1.   The City will consider impacts to the public health, safety, and
welfare when reviewing a small wireless permit application and requests to
enter into a small wireless facility collocation agreement. The public health,
safety, and welfare can be best accommodated by locating small wireless
facilities in the following order, which affords the greatest protection to the
public:
         a.   Locate outside of the right-of-way.
         b.   Locate in an alley right-of-way, if applicable.
         c.   Collocate on existing wireless support structures within the
right-of-way.
         d.   Locate in the right-of-way on or adjacent to major arterials,
minor arterials or collector streets, as shown in the most current version of
the City’s Comprehensive Plan.
         e.   Locate on a new wireless support structure within the right-of-
way that replaces an existing wireless support structure of the same height.
         f.   Locate on a new wireless support structure within the right-of-
way whose height is similar to nearby structures.
         g.   Locate on a new wireless support structure within the right-of-
way that replaces an existing wireless support structure whose height is less
than or equal to 50 feet.
         h.   Locate on a new wireless support structure within the right-of-
way whose height is less than or equal to 50 feet.
      2.   The City will also consider factors such as aesthetic compatibility
of the small wireless facility with surrounding structures, ability to
eliminate underground, or screen ground-mounted equipment, dangers within the
small wireless facility fall zone, distance of the small wireless facility from
roads, sidewalks, trails and bicycle lanes, and future roadway, pedestrian,
bicycle, water, wastewater, and stormwater improvement plans for the site
before issuing small wireless facility permit or entering into a standard small
wireless facility collocation agreement.
   F.   Permit Application.
      1.   General application requirements. A written application for a small
wireless facility permit shall be submitted to the Public Works Director on a
form provided by the City. A permit application will be considered complete
only upon compliance with the following provisions:
         a.   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and including the following information:
            (1)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of
authority from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable
state or federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have such
certificate from said commission or other state or federal agency.
         b.   Payment of fees and other charges:
            (1)   Permit fees, and other management costs.
            (2)   Any disputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the City
due to applicant’s prior excavation or obstructions of the rights-of-way or any
emergency actions taken by the City.
            (3)   Franchise fees, or other charges, if applicable.
            (4)   Inspection fees, if applicable, and if not included in the
permit fee.
            (5)   In addition to the permit fees, the City reserves the right
to charge telecommunication providers for their use of the public right-of-way
to the extent that such charges are allowed under state law. Telecommunication
providers shall be responsible for payment of property taxes attributable to
their equipment in the public right-of-way.
            (6)   Standard collocation agreement, if applicable.
   G.   Special Application Requirements. A conditional use permit is required
to install a small wireless facility in a right-of-way: 1) that abuts or is
within 100' of a local heritage preservation landmark or district, or property
on the National Register of Historic Places; or 2) that abuts a property zoned
R-1 (Single Family Residential District) or R-2 (Single and Two Family
Residential District).
   H.   Exceptions to Permitting. Unless the work requires the closing of
sidewalks or vehicle lanes in the public right-of-way, an application for a
permit is not needed for:
      1.   Routine maintenance of a small wireless facility or support
structures for a small wireless facility;
      2.   The replacement of one small wireless facility with another small
wireless facility of substantially similar or smaller size;
      3.   The installation, placement, operation or maintenance of a micro
wireless facility that is strung on a cable between two existing utility poles
in compliance with the National Electric Safety Code; or
      4.   Non-substantial modifications
A wireless provider shall give notice to the City of an activity described in
Subdivision 7-6-9.H at least five (5) business days prior to conducting the
activity.
   I.   Consolidated Application.
      1.   A small wireless facility permit applicant may file a consolidated
small wireless facility permit application to collocate up to 15 small wireless
facilities provided that all the small wireless facilities in the application:
         a.   Are located within a two-mile radius;
         b.   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         c.   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support structures.
      2.   All consolidated small wireless facility permit applications shall
acknowledge that the City may approve a permit for some small wireless
facilities and deny a permit for others, but the City may not use denial of one
or more permits as a basis to deny all the small wireless facilities in the
application.
      3.   For small wireless facility permit applications, an applicant need
not provide information previously provided in a different application to the
City for a small wireless facility permit if the information has not changed
and the applicant shall provide a specific reference to the previous submittal.
   J.   Permission from Owner. If the applicant seeks to collocate a small
wireless facility on an existing wireless support structure, the applicant
shall, at the time of the application, provide the City with proof that it has
obtained the necessary authority from the owner of the wireless support
structure to collocate the small wireless facility on the structure.
   K.   Issuance of Permit and Conditions.
      1.   The Public Works Director shall issue the small wireless facility
permit upon the Public Works Director’s determination that the applicant has
satisfied the requirements in this chapter or shall provide written reasons for
the denial if the Public Works Director believes the requirements have not been
satisfied within 90 days of receiving a completed application or any applicable
extension of the 90-day deadline. If the City receives applications within a
single seven-day period from one or more applicants seeking approval of permits
for more than 30 small wireless facilities, the City may extend in writing the
90-day deadline imposed in state law by an additional 30 days. The small
wireless facility permit, and any associated building permit application, shall
be approved if the City fails to approve or deny the application within the
review periods established in this chapter.
      2.   Conditions.
         a.   The City may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance of
the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to protect the
health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and
its current use.
         b.   In addition, a permit holder shall comply with all requirements
of local, state, and federal laws, including but not limited to Minn. Stat. §
216D.01 - .09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minnesota Rules,
Chapter 7560.
         c.   The erection or installation of a wireless support structure, or
the collocation of a small wireless facility, shall be subject to the following
conditions:
            (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the
particular wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable permit application.
            (2)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-
of-way shall exceed 50 feet in height without the Public Works Director’s
written authorization, and further provided that an applicant may replace an
existing wireless support structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a
structure of the same height, subject to such conditions or requirements as may
be imposed in the applicable permit.
            (3)   No wireless facility may extend more than 10 feet above its
wireless support structure.
            (4)   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the City may impose separation requirements
between such support structures and any existing wireless support structure or
other facilities in and around the right-of-way.
            (5)   Where an applicant proposes to replace a City-owned wireless
support structure, the City may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of such structure.
            (6)   The applicant shall submit to the City a determination by a
third-party Licensed Engineer that the wireless facility can safely be
supported by the wireless support structure in which installation is proposed.
All fees associated with the determination shall be paid for by the applicant.
      3.   Small Wireless Facility Agreement. A small wireless facility shall
only be collocated on a small wireless support structure owned or controlled by
the City or Sleepy Eye Public Utilities Commission, or any other City asset in
the right-of-way, after the applicant has executed a standard small wireless
facility collocation agreement with the City or Sleepy Eye Public Utilities
Commission. The standard collocation agreement may require payment of the
following:
         a.   Rental fees as adopted in the City Fee Schedule, or Sleepy Eye
Public Utilities Schedule of Fees and Charges.
         b.   Maintenance fees associated with the collocation as adopted in
the City Fee Schedule, or Sleepy Eye Public Utilities Schedule of Fees and
Charges.
         c.   Payment of monthly electrical service costs as follows: 1) $73
per radio node less than or equal to 100 maximum watts; 2) $182 per radio node
over 100 maximum watts; or 3) the actual costs of electricity, if the actual
cost exceeds the foregoing.
      4.   The City will not impose a small wireless facility permit fee for
any of the following activities:
         a.   Routine maintenance of a small wireless facility;
         b.   Replacement of a small wireless facility with a new facility that
is substantially similar or smaller in size, weight, height, and wind or
structural loading than the small wireless facility being replaced; or
         c.   Installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement
of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with national safety codes.
      5.   Non-Refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the
City has revoked for a breach as stated in Section
7-6-15 are not refundable.
   L.   Permit Duration. For a small wireless facility permit, the term of the
permit is equal to the length of time that the small wireless facility is in
use, unless the permit is revoked under Section
7-6-15, Revocation of Permit.
   M.   Supplementary Notification. If the obstruction or excavation of the
right-of-way begins later or ends sooner than the date given on the permit,
permit holder shall notify the City of the accurate information as soon as this
information is known.
   N.   Removal of Small Wireless Facilities.
      1.   Abandoned System: In the event that: 1) the use of any portion of a
small wireless facility is discontinued for a continuous period of twelve (12)
months, and thirty (30) days after no response to written notice from the City
to the last known address of the wireless provider; or 2) any small wireless
facility has been installed in the rights-of-way without complying with the
requirements of this chapter; a wireless provider shall be deemed to have
abandoned such small wireless facility.
      2.   Removal/Abandoned Facility: The City, upon such terms as it may
impose, may give a wireless provider written permission to abandon, without
removing, any small wireless facility, or portion thereof, directly
constructed, operated or maintained. Unless such permission is granted or
unless otherwise provided in this chapter, a wireless provider shall remove
within a reasonable time the abandoned small wireless facility and shall
restore, using prudent construction standards, any affected rights-of-way to
their former state at the time such system was installed and in accordance with
the adopted engineering standards, so as not to impair their usefulness. In
removing its facilities and equipment, a wireless provider shall refill, at its
own expense, any excavation necessarily made by it and shall leave all rights-
of-way in as good condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without
materially interfering with any pole or other utility wires, poles or
attachments. The City shall have the right to inspect and approve the condition
of the rights-of-way, attachments and poles prior to and after removal. The
liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this chapter and any security
fund provided shall continue in full force and effect during the period of
removal and until full compliance by a wireless provider with the terms and
conditions of this section.
      3.   Transfer of Abandoned Facility to City: Upon abandonment of any
small wireless facility or wireless support structure in place, a wireless
provider, if required by the City, shall submit to the City a written
instrument, satisfactory in form to the City, transferring to the City the
ownership of such poles or equipment allowed to remain within the right-of-way.
      4.   Removal of Above-Ground System: At the expiration of the term for
which an agreement is made or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, in any
such case without renewal, extension or transfer, the City shall have the right
to require a provider to remove, at its expense, all above-ground portions of
small wireless facilities within a reasonable period of time, which shall not
be less than one hundred eighty (180) days.
      5.   Leaving Underground System: Upon written approval by City, a
wireless provider may abandon underground portions of a small wireless facility
in place so long as it does not materially interfere with the use of the
rights-of-way or with the use thereof by any public utility, cable operator or
other person.
      6.   If a wireless provider defaults under any provision of this chapter
and such default is not cured within 30 days following notice by City to
facility owner of its default, City shall maintain all it rights and remedies,
at law and in equity, including the ability to charge fines, recover fees and
costs. In the alternative, the City may remove the facilities and associated
equipment and charge the reasonable, documented, actual cost to the facility
owner.
   O.   Design/Aesthetic Standards Applicable to All Small Wireless Facilities.
      1.   Integrated Design Consideration: Small wireless facilities,
including equipment associated with the small wireless facility, shall be
integrated into the stand-alone pole, utility pole or pole where possible and
generally shall be installed in a manner minimizing the visual impact. Whether
the small wireless facility is collocated or is placed on its own pole:
         a.   Small wireless facilities should not be readily noticed;
         b.   All equipment, including electric meters, should be located on or
within the pole unless prohibited by the owner of the pole, in which case an
alternative power meter box must be approved by the Public Works Director;
         c.   A small wireless facility and associated equipment located on the
exterior of a pole shall be enclosed in a shroud or enclosure painted to match
the existing pole color;
            (1)   All small wireless facilities shall, to the extent possible,
use design techniques including, but not limited to, the use of materials,
colors, textures, screening, undergrounding, or other design options that will
blend the small wireless facilities to the surrounding natural setting and
built environment. Design, materials and colors of small wireless facilities
shall be compatible with the surrounding environment. Designs shall be
compatible with structures and vegetation located in the right-of-way and on
adjacent parcels.
            (2)   Should the Public Works Director determine that such design
meets the intent of this chapter and the community is better served thereby,
the design shall include the use of camouflage measures such as man-made trees,
clock towers, bell steeples, light poles, traffic signals, buildings, and
similar alternative design mounting structures that are compatible with the
natural setting and surrounding structures, and conceals the presence of
antennas or poles so as to make them architecturally compatible with the
surrounding area pursuant to this policy.
            (3)   All small wireless facilities shall be constructed out of or
finished with non-reflective materials (visible exterior surfaces only);
            (4)   For metal poles:
               (A)   Cable runs should be inside of the pole to the maximum
extent practicable;
               (B)   Equipment associated with the small wireless facility
should, where practicable, be enclosed at the base of the wireless support
structure in a space not more than 24 inches in diameter and not more than five
feet eight inches in height; and
               (C)   Poles used for collocation shall be designed to separate
different pole users, such as through dual chamber or tri-chamber design.
            (5)   If equipment cannot be installed inside of the pole, pole
attachments within 15 feet of ground level shall be positioned on the side of
the pole facing away from approaching traffic in the travel lane closest to the
pole, provided that if the equipment would extend over a sidewalk or road
surface, the equipment shall be positioned in a way to avoid such encroachment;
            (6)   Small wireless facility equipment on the outside of a utility
pole shall be placed at least 8 feet above the public way, unless otherwise
permitted by the City;
            (7)   Small wireless facilities shall not be lighted or marked
unless required by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA), or other applicable governmental authority;
            (8)   Signs located at the small wireless facility shall be limited
to ownership and contact information, FCC antenna registration number (if
required) and any other information as required by applicable governmental
authority. Commercial advertising is strictly prohibited.
         d.   Small wireless facilities shall be located such that it in no way
impedes, obstructs, or hinders the usual pedestrian or vehicular travel, affect
public safety, obstruct the legal access to or use of the public right-of-way,
violate applicable law, violate or conflict with public right-of-way design
standards, specifications, or historic district requirements, violate any FAA
regulation or the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or in any
way create a risk to public health, safety, or welfare.
      2.   Antennae:
         a.   Each individual antenna shall be located entirely within a shroud
enclosure of not more than three (3) cubic feet in volume. All antennas
associated with the small wireless facility shall not exceed a combined space
of six (6) cubic feet.
         b.   The diameter of the antenna or antenna enclosure should generally
not exceed the diameter of the top of the wireless support structure pole, and
to the maximum extent practical, should appear as a seamless vertical extension
of the pole.
         c.   In no case shall the maximum diameter of the shroud be wider than
one and one half times the diameter of the top of the pole.
         d.   Where the maximum shroud diameter exceeds the diameter of the top
of the pole, the shroud shall be tapered to meet the top of the pole.
         e.   Unless technologically infeasible or otherwise inappropriate
based on neighborhood context, all antenna shall be mounted to the top of the
wireless support structure pole, aligned with the centerline of the structure.
         f.   Antennas shall be generally cylindrical in shape.
         g.   Antenna shall be completely housed within a cylindrical shroud
that is capable of accepting paint to match the wireless support structure.
      3.   Height Limitations:
         a.   The height of a structure used for collocation of a small
wireless facility, including the wireless facility, measured at the base of the
structure shall not exceed the lesser of:
            (1)   The minimum height needed for the operation of the wireless
facility; or
            (2)   For a new or modified utility pole 50 feet above ground level
together with the minimum antenna height necessary for one antenna contained
within any approved concealment feature.
         b.   A utility pole existing on or before May 31, 2017 that is used
for the collocation of a small wireless facility may, on only one occasion, be
increased by up to ten feet (10') to allow for the attachment of the small
wireless antenna together with any approved concealment feature.
         c.   All installations shall not violate any height restrictions as
determined by the FAA or other airport land use and height restrictions. The
applicant shall be solely responsible for all costs incurred for the FAA
determination applications and processing.
      4.   If a ground mounted or buried equipment cabinet is proposed, the
cabinet or vault:
         a.   May be placed above ground in a boulevard as approved by the
Public Works Director. The preferred location shall be behind the sidewalk
where the right-of-way width allows, or by obtaining a private utility
easement. If there is no boulevard, it shall be placed underground.
         b.   Shall meet the same separation standards as required for a new
utility pole from trees and drive approaches; and
         c.   For an above ground cabinet:
            (1)   Shall be secured to a concrete foundation or slab with a
breakaway design in the event of collisions; and
            (2)   Shall not exceed three feet in height.
            (3)   Shall not encroach into the sidewalk area reserved for the
sidewalk or within two (2) feet of the curb.
   P.   Design/Aesthetic Standards Applicable to Collocated Small Wireless
Facilities. Collocated small wireless facilities shall meet the following
design standards:
      1.   To the maximum extent practicable, all small wireless facilities,
associated equipment and cabling shall be completely concealed from view within
an enclosure.
      2.   Where equipment cannot reasonably be incorporated into the base of
the pole, it may be installed within:
         a.   An equipment enclosure mounted to the pole; or
         b.   A ground-mounted cabinet physically independent from the pole.
      3.   Equipment enclosures mounted to a pole:
         a.   Shall not protrude more than eighteen (18) inches beyond the face
of the pole to the outermost portion of the enclosure.
         b.   Should be installed as flush to the pole as practical. In no case
shall an enclosure be installed more than four inches from the wireless support
structure pole.
         c.   Where multiple enclosures are proposed on a wireless support
structure pole, the enclosures shall be grouped as closely together as possible
on the same side of the pole.
         d.   Small wireless facility equipment enclosures should be the
smallest size practicable to house the necessary facilities and equipment.
         e.   Small wireless facility equipment enclosures shall be cylindrical
or rectangular in shape, and should generally be no wider than the maximum
outside diameter of the pole to which it is attached, to the maximum extent
possible.
         f.   The shroud enclosure shall be securely strapped to the wireless
support structure pole using stainless steel banding straps. Through-bolting or
use of lag bolts on publicly-owned wireless support structures is prohibited.
         g.   The applicant shall execute a standard small wireless facility
collocation agreement with the pole owner before any facility is installed.
   Q.   Design/Aesthetic Standards Applicable to Small Wireless Facilities on
New Stand-Alone Poles. If an applicant proposes to install a new stand-alone
utility pole in connection with a small wireless facility, the pole and
facilities shall meet the following design standards:
      1.   Design of the pole shall be cylindrical and shall match the
aesthetics of existing streetlight poles, streetlights, or other utility poles
installed adjacent to the pole.
      2.   Together with the small wireless facility, components shall be sized
to be visually pleasing.
         a.   For a pole to be considered visually pleasing, the transition
between the equipment cabinet and upper pole shall be considered;
         b.   The equipment associated with the small wireless facility shall
be enclosed at the base of the wireless support structure in a space provided
that if a separate equipment cabinet or vault not exceeding 28 cubic feet in
size may be used if the equipment cannot reasonably be contained in the space
allowed;
         c.   A decorative transition shall be installed over the equipment
cabinet upper bolts, or decorative base cover shall be installed to match the
equipment cabinet size and shall taper between different pole diameters, with
no horizontal or flat spaces greater than 1.5 inches;
         d.   The upper pole shall be scaled to 0.5 to 0.75 the size of the
equipment cabinet, with a 10-inch minimum outer diameter at the widest portion
of the pole;
         e.   All hardware connections shall be hidden from view;
         f.   No horizontal flat spaces greater than 1.5 inches shall exist on
the equipment cabinet to prevent cups, trash, and other objects from being
placed on the equipment cabinet; and
         g.   Each pole component shall be architecturally compatible to create
a cohesive aesthetic.
         h.   The new pole shall be made to match existing infrastructure
within the general area.
      3.   The new pole:
         a.   Shall be placed in alignment with existing trees, utility poles,
and streetlights.
         b.   Shall be located at intersecting property lines as much as
possible.
         c.   Shall be located a minimum of 15 feet away from trees or outside
of the tree drip line, whichever is greater, to prevent disturbance within the
critical root zone of any tree.
         d.   Shall be located at least 5 feet away from the widest part of an
alley or drive approach, including any flare associated with the approach.
         e.   Shall not be installed between the perpendicular extension of the
primary street-facing wall plane of any single or two-family residence and the
street.
         f.   When located adjacent to a commercial establishment, such as a
shop or restaurant, care should be taken to locate the pole such that it does
not negatively impact the business and shall not be located in-front of store
front windows, primary walkways, primary entrances or exits, or in such a way
that it would impede a delivery to the building.
   R.   Design/Aesthetic Standards Applicable to Decorative Poles and Historic
Districts. Small wireless facilities located on decorative poles or in a
historic district shall, in addition to any other requirements of this policy,
meet the following design standards:
      1.   Decorative Poles: If necessary to collocate a small wireless
facility, a wireless provider may replace a decorative pole, if the replacement
pole reasonably conforms to the design aesthetic of the displaced decorative
pole as approved by the Public Works Director. A replacement pole does not
reasonably conform to the design aesthetic if it extends the current pole
height by more than 25%.
      2.   Historic Districts: Within a historic district:
         a.   The City would prefer that small wireless facilities be located
in adjoining alleys, if possible.
         b.   The City may require a reasonable, technically feasible,
nondiscriminatory, or technologically neutral design or concealment measure,
unless the facility is excluded from evaluation for effects on historic
properties.
         c.   A design or concealment measure described in Subdivision 9.R. may
not:
            (1)   Have the effect of prohibiting a provider’s technology; or
            (2)   Be considered a part of the small wireless facility for
purposes of the size parameters in the definition of a small wireless facility.
(Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-10: COMPATIBILITY STANDARDS:
   A.   A facility located in a public right-of-way may be replaced with a
facility of similar size, height, shape, color and other associated features.
   B.   Replacement of a facility, pole or associated equipment shall follow
the standards set forth in this chapter unless clearly indicated otherwise.
   C.   New facilities, including utility poles, within a public street right-
of-way shall be made of metal.
   D.   New facilities located in non-street public right-of-way locations may
match the materials used for facilities located on each side of it. If a
facility is not located on one side, materials used on the remaining side shall
be used.
   E.   The Public Works Director is authorized to determine the most
appropriate materials and standards to use for new or replacement facilities
when the location does not provide the appropriate information.
   F.   The Public Works Director shall determine the minimum amount of
separation required between adjoining facilities in the right-of-way.
   G.   A facility placed in an alley cannot obstruct an existing or future
driveway location.
   H.   The standards provided in Section
7-6-9, Item O, P, Q and R apply to all facilities within a street right-of-way
and other locations as determined by the Public Works Director. (Ord 148, 2nd
Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-11: REPAIR AND RESTORATION:
   A.   Schedule. The work to be done under the permit, and the repair and
restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be completed within
the dates specified in the permit. If due to extraordinary circumstances beyond
the control of the permit holder the work cannot be completed by the date
specified in the permits, the permit holder must submit a repair schedule that
shall be approved by the City. In addition to repairing its own work, the
permit holder must restore the general area of the work, and the surrounding
areas, including any and all sidewalks, curb and gutter, catch basins,
manholes, valves, paving and foundations, etc. to the condition that existed
before the commencement of the work but only to the extent the permit holder
disturbed such surrounding areas.
   B.   General Standards. The permit holder shall perform repairs and
restoration according to the standards and with the materials specified by
Public Works Director. The Public Works Director shall have the authority to
prescribe the manner and extent of the restoration, and may do so in written
procedures of general application or on a case-by-case basis. In exercising
this authority, the Public Works Director shall be guided by the following
standards and considerations:
      1.   The number, size, depth and duration of the excavations, disruptions
or damage to the right-of-way.
      2.   The traffic volume carried by the right-of-way, the character of the
neighborhood surrounding the right-of-way;
      3.   The pre-excavation condition of the right-of-way, the remaining
life-expectancy of the right-of-way infrastructure affected by the excavation;
      4.   Whether the relative cost of the method of restoration to the permit
holder is in reasonable balance with the prevention of an accelerated
depreciation of the right-of-way that would otherwise result from the
excavation, disturbance or damage to the right-of-way; and
      5.   The likelihood that the particular method of restoration would be
effective in slowing the life of the service of the right-of-way and
infrastructure that would otherwise take place.
   C.   Inspection.
      1.   Notice of Completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permit holder shall furnish a completion certificate in
accordance Minnesota Rules 7819.1300.
      2.   Site Inspection. The permit holder shall make the work-site
available to City personnel and to all others as authorized by law for
inspection at all reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion
of the work.
      3.   Authority of City. a) At the time of inspection, the City may order
the immediate cessation of any work, which poses a serious threat to the life,
health, safety, or well-being of the public. b) The City may issue an order to
the permit holder for any work that does not conform to the terms of the permit
or other applicable standards, conditions, or codes. The order shall state that
failure to correct the violation will be cause for revocation of the permit.
Within ten (10) days after issuance of the order, the permit holder shall
present proof to the City that the violation has been corrected. If such proof
has not been presented within the required time, the City may revoke the permit
pursuant to Section
7-6-15, Revocation of Permit.
   D.   Guarantees. The permit holder shall guarantee its work and shall
maintain it for 24 months following the date of completion. During this twenty-
four (24) month period it shall, upon notification from the Public Works
Director, promptly correct all restoration work to the extent necessary, using
the method required by the Public Works Director. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-
2019)
7-6-12: PERMIT LIMITATIONS:
Permits issued pursuant to this subdivision are valid only for the area of the
right-of-way specified in the application and permits, and only for the dates
so specified. No work shall be extended beyond the permitted area or dates
without a new permit being procured therefore, provided the Public Works
Director may extend the completion date of the work in accordance with
Subdivision 11(A) of this chapter. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-13: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
The Public Works Director may deny a permit due to the following:
   A.   Failure to register pursuant to Subdivision 5 of this chapter.
   B.   A proposed excavation within a street or sidewalk surface that has been
constructed or reconstructed within the preceding five years unless the Public
Works Director determines that no other locations are feasible or when
necessitated by an emergency.
   C.   The applicant is subject to revocation of a prior permit issued
pursuant to this section.
   D.   The proposed schedule for the work would conflict or interfere with an
exhibition, celebration, festival or any other similar event.
   E.   The right-of-way would become unduly congested due to the proposed
facilities and equipment when combined with other uses in the right-of-way as
provided in Subdivision 18(C) of this chapter.
   F.   Businesses or residences in the vicinity will be unreasonably disrupted
by the work.
   G.   The proposed schedule conflicts with scheduled total or partial
reconstruction of the right-of-way.
   H.   The applicant fails to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-14: EMERGENCY WORK:
Each person with facilities in the right-of-way shall immediately notify the
City of any event regarding its facilities that it considers being an
emergency. Within two (2) business days after the occurrence of the emergency,
the owner shall apply for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated
therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself
into compliance with this section for the actions it took in response to the
emergency. If the City becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
City will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the City may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-15: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
   A.   Substantial Breach. The Public Works Director may revoke any permit,
without a fee refund, if there is a substantial breach of the terms and
conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule or regulation, or any condition of
the permit which substantial breach shall continue uncured for 10 calendar days
after the issuance of a written order by the Public Works Director. A
substantial breach of a permit holder shall include, but shall not be limited
to, the following:
      1.   The violation of any material provision of the permit;
      2.   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the permit,
or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit upon the City
or its citizens;
      3.   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
permit;
      4.   The failure to maintain the required bonds and insurance;
      5.   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a permit
extension is granted by the City; or
      6.   The failure to correct a condition indicated on an order issued by
the Public Works Director.
   B.   Written Notice of Breach. If the City determines that the permit holder
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the City shall make
a written demand upon the permit holder to remedy such violation. The demand
shall state that continued violations might be cause for revocation of the
permit.
   C.   Procedural Requirements. If the City decides to revoke the permit, the
revocation must be made in writing and must document the basis for the
revocation. The City must notify the permit holder in writing within three (3)
business days of the decision to revoke a permit. If a permit application is
denied, the right-of-way user may cure the deficiencies identified by the City
and resubmit its application. If the right-of-way user resubmits the
application within 30 days of receiving written notice of the denial, it may
not be charged an additional filing or processing fee. The City will approve or
deny the revised application within 30 days after the revised application is
submitted.
   D.   Reimbursement of City Costs. If a permit is revoked, the permit holder
shall also reimburse the City for the City’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with such revocation. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-16: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by: 1) the denial of a permit application, 2) the denial
of a registration, 3) or the revocation of a permit may appeal to the City
Council by filing a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk. Said notice
must be filed within 20 days of the action causing the appeal. The notice of
appeal shall state the relevant facts on which the appellant relies in
objecting to the permit denial or revocation. A hearing on the appeal shall be
scheduled before the City Council at its next regular scheduled meeting. The
appellant shall be given notice of the hearing and shall be given an
opportunity to be heard at the hearing. The City Council may render its
decision at the initial hearing, or, in its discretion, may request such
further information as is necessary to render a decision, in which case it
shall set a continued hearing date with notice to the appellant. The permit
denial or revocation shall be in effect pending the City Council’s decision on
the appeal. A decision by the City Council affirming the denial, revocation, or
fee imposition will be in writing and supported by written findings
establishing the reasonableness of the decision. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-
2019)
7-6-17: MAPPING:
Within 60 days following completion of any work pursuant to a permit, the
registrant shall provide the Public Works Director accurate maps and drawings
certifying the “as-built” location of all facilities and equipment installed,
owned and maintained by the registrant. Such maps and drawings shall indicate
both the horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and
shall be provided in a format consistent with the City’s electronic mapping
system. Failure to provide maps and drawings in accordance with this section
shall be grounds for revoking the permit holder’s registration. (Ord 148, 2nd
Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-18: LOCATION OF FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Undergrounding by Right-of-Way Users. Any new construction and the
installation of new equipment and replacement of old equipment of right-of-way
users shall be underground or contained within buildings or other structures in
conformity with applicable codes.
   B.   Corridors. The Public Works Director may assign specific corridors
within the right-of-way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary,
for each type of equipment that is or, pursuant to current technology, the
Public Works Director expects will someday be located within the right-of-way.
All permits issued by the Public Works Director involving the installation or
replacement of equipment shall designate the proper corridor for the equipment
at issue.
   C.   Limitation of Space. To protect health and safety, the Public Works
Director shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or
additional equipment within the right-of-way if there is insufficient space to
accommodate all of the requests of registrants or persons to occupy and use the
right-of-way. In making such decisions, the Public Works Director shall strive
to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the
right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public
interest, the public’s needs for the particular utility service, the condition
of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the
protection of existing equipment in the right-of-way, and future City plans for
public improvements and development projects which have been determined to be
in the public interest. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-19: RELOCATION:
   A.   Relocation for City Purposes. A facility owner shall promptly but in no
event more than 120 days after the City’s request, permanently remove and
relocate at no charge to the City, any facilities or equipment if and when made
necessary by a change in the grade, alignment or width of any right-of-way, by
the construction, maintenance or operation of any City facilities or to protect
the public health, safety and welfare. The facility owner shall restore any
rights-of-way to the condition it was in prior to removal and relocation.
   B.   Undergrounding of Relocated Facilities. A right-of-way user shall
relocate all above ground facilities and equipment to underground locations at
its own cost and expense at the City’s request when: 1) the City requires the
relocation of all facilities and equipment to underground locations, or 2)
structures or poles to which the registrant’s facilities or equipment is
attached are abandoned or removed by the owner of such structures or poles.
   C.   Damage to Other Facilities. When the City does work in the right-of-way
and finds it necessary to maintain, support, or move facilities to protect
them, the City shall notify the local representative of the facility as early
as is possible and develop a plan of action. The costs associated therewith
will be billed to that facility owner and must be paid within thirty (30) days
from the date of billing. Each facility owner shall be responsible for the cost
of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its facilities
damages. Each facility owner shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any
damage to the facilities of another caused during the City’s response to an
emergency occasioned by that owner’s facilities. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-
2019)
7-6-20: RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION:
If the City vacates a right-of-way that contains facilities, the facility
owner’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by Minnesota Rules §
7819.3200. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-21: ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Discontinued Operations. A registrant who has determined to discontinue
its operations in the City must either:
      1.   Provide information satisfactory to the Public Works Director that
the registrant’s obligations for its equipment in the right-of-way under this
section have been lawfully assumed by another registrant; or
      2.   Submit to the Public Works Director an action plan for the removal
or abandonment of equipment and facilities. The Public Works Director shall
require removal of such facilities and equipment if the Public Works Director
determines such removal is necessary. The Public Works Director may require the
registrant to post a bond in an amount sufficient to reimburse the City for
reasonably anticipated costs to be incurred in removing the facilities and
equipment.
   B.   Abandoned Facilities Equipment. Facilities and equipment of a
registrant located on the surface of or above a right-of-way or on City
property which, for one year, remains unused shall be deemed to be abandoned.
Such abandoned equipment is deemed to be a nuisance. The City may exercise any
remedies or rights it has at law or in equity, including, but not limited to:
1) abating the nuisance, or 2) requiring removal of the equipment or facilities
by the registrant, or the registrant’s successor in interest.
   C.   Removal of Underground Equipment. Any registrant who has unusable and
abandoned underground facilities or equipment in any right-of-way shall remove
it from that right-of-way during the next scheduled excavation, to the extent
such facilities or equipment is uncovered by such excavation unless this
requirement is waived by the Public Works Director. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-
2019)
7-6-22: INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY:
By applying for and accepting a permit under this section, a permit holder
agrees to defend and indemnify the City in accordance with the provisions of
Minnesota Rules § 7819.1250. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-23: RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS:
A permit holder’s rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
City to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the public. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-24: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this section is for any reason held invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion will be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding will not affect the validity of the
remaining portions. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
7-6-25: FRANCHISE HOLDERS:
If there is a conflict in language between the franchise of a person holding a
franchise agreement with the City and this section, the terms of the franchise
shall prevail. (Ord 148, 2nd Series, 4-9-2019)
TITLE 8
UTILITY SERVICES
CHAPTER 1
RULES AND REGULATIONS, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Fixing Rates And Charges
8-1-3: Contractual Contents
8-1-4: Billing, Payment; Delinquency
8-1-5: Application, Connection And Sale Of Service
8-1-6: Discontinuance Of Service
8-1-7: Ownership Of Municipal Utilities
8-1-8: Right Of Entry
8-1-9: Municipal Utility Service Outside City
8-1-10: Unlawful Acts
8-1-11: Electric Energy Franchises
8-1-12: Penalty
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
stated:
COMPANY, GRANTEE, AND FRANCHISEE: Any public utility system to which a
franchise has been granted by the City.
CONSUMER AND CUSTOMER: Any user of a utility.
MUNICIPAL UTILITY: Any City-owned utility system, including, but not by way of
limitation, water, sewerage, electric and refuse service.
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION: The Public Utilities Commission of the City and
certain specific references herein to the "City" shall include the City acting
through the Public Utilities Commission where the language or context clearly
indicates such reference.
SERVICE: Providing a particular utility to a customer or consumer.
UTILITY: All utility services, whether the same be public City- owned
facilities or furnished by public utility companies. (1988 Code § 3.01; amd.
Ord. 88, 2nd Series, 2-13-2007)
8-1-2: FIXING RATES AND CHARGES:
All rates and charges for Municipal utilities, including, but not by way of
limitation, rates for service, permit fees, deposit, connection and meter
testing fees, disconnection fees, reconnection fees including penalties for
nonpayment if any, except such as are fixed and determined by the Public
Utilities Commission, shall be fixed, determined and amended by the Council and
adopted by resolution. Such resolution, containing the effective date thereof,
shall be kept on file and open to inspection in the Office of the City Clerk
and shall be uniformly enforced. For the purpose of fixing such rates and
charges, the Council may categorize and classify under the various types of
service; provided, that such categorization and classification shall be
included in the resolution authorized by this section. (1988 Code § 3.02)
8-1-3: CONTRACTUAL CONTENTS:
Provisions of this chapter relating to Municipal utilities shall constitute
portions of the contract between the City and all consumers of Municipal
utility services, and every such consumer shall be deemed to assent to the
same. (1988 Code § 3.03)
8-1-4: BILLING, PAYMENT; DELINQUENCY:
All Municipal utilities shall be billed monthly or quarterly and a utilities
statement or statements shall be mailed to each consumer each month. All
utilities charges shall be delinquent if they are unpaid at the close of
business on the twenty fifth day of each month following such billing;
provided, that if the twenty fifth day shall fall on a Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday, the time shall be extended to the close of business on the next
succeeding day on which business is normally transacted. No discount shall be
allowed for delinquent utility bills. If service is suspended due to
delinquency, it shall not be restored at that location until a reconnection
charge has been paid for each utility reconnected in addition to amounts owed
for service. (1988 Code § 3.04)
8-1-5: APPLICATION, CONNECTION AND SALE OF SERVICE:
Application for Municipal utility services shall be made upon forms supplied by
the City, and strictly in accordance therewith. No connection shall be made
until consent has been received from the City to make the same. All Municipal
utilities shall be sold and delivered to consumers under the then applicable
rate applied to the amount of such utilities taken as metered or ascertained in
connection with such rates. (1988 Code § 3.04)
8-1-6: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
All Municipal utilities may be shut off or discontinued whenever it is found
that:
   A.   Requirements Violated: The owner or occupant of the premises served, or
any person working on any connection with the Municipal utility systems, has
violated any requirement of this Code relative thereto, or any connection
therewith, or,
   B.   Unpaid Bill: Any charge for a Municipal utility service imposed on the
present owner or occupant of the premises served is unpaid after due notice
thereof, or,
   C.   Fraud Or Misrepresentation: There is fraud or misrepresentation by the
owner or occupant in connection with any application for service or delivery or
charges therefor. (1988 Code § 3.04)
8-1-7: OWNERSHIP OF MUNICIPAL UTILITIES:
Ownership of all Municipal utilities, plants, lines, mains, extensions and
appurtenances thereto, shall be and remain in the City and no person shall own
any part or portion thereof; provided, however, that private facilities and
appurtenances are not intended to be included in Municipal ownership. (1988
Code § 3.04)
8-1-8: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
By applying for, or receiving, a Municipal utility service, a customer
irrevocably consents and agrees that any City employee acting within the course
and scope of his employment may enter into and upon the private property of the
customer, including dwellings and other buildings, at all reasonable times
under the circumstances, in or upon which private property a Municipal utility,
or connection therewith, is installed, for the purpose of inspecting,
repairing, reading meters, connecting or disconnecting the Municipal utility
service. (1988 Code § 3.04)
8-1-9: MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY:
Premises located outside the City shall not be connected to or served by any
Municipal utility, except such premises as are publicly owned or presently
served, with the exception of the electrical service. Persons needing Municipal
utility service whose service property is located outside the corporate limits
must initiate and complete annexation proceedings prior to being provided with
such service or services. Exceptions may be made with a four-fifths (4/5) vote
of the Council. (1988 Code § 3.04)
8-1-10: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Vandalize; Interfere; Obstruct: Wilfully or carelessly break, injure,
mar, deface, disturb, or in any way interfere with any buildings, attachments,
machinery, apparatus, equipment, fixture, or appurtenance of any Municipal
utility or Municipal utility system, or commit any act tending to obstruct or
impair the use of any Municipal utility.
   B.   Unpermitted Connections: Make any connection with, opening into, use,
or alter in any way any Municipal utility system without first having applied
for and received written permission to do so from the City.
   C.   Reconnect Discontinued Service: Turn on or connect a utility when the
same has been turned off or disconnected by the City for nonpayment of a bill,
or for any other reason, without first having obtained a permit to do so from
the City.
   D.   Steal Services: "Jumper" or by any means or device fully or partially
circumvent a Municipal utility meter, or to knowingly use or consume unmetered
utilities or use the services of any utility system, the use of which the
proper billing authorities have no knowledge. (1988 Code § 3.04)
8-1-11: ELECTRIC ENERGY FRANCHISES:
   A.   Franchise Required: Except as otherwise provided by law, no person
shall transmit, furnish, deliver or receive or cause to be transmitted,
furnished, delivered or received electric energy for light, power, heat and
other purposes for public and/or private use within and through the limits of
the City, or place or maintain any permanent or semi-permanent fixtures in,
over, upon, or under any street or public place for the purpose of operating a
public utility or transmitting, furnishing, delivering or receiving, or causing
to be transmitted, furnished, delivered, or received electric energy or for any
other purpose, except pursuant to a franchise from the City. A franchise shall
be granted only by ordinance. Every ordinance granting a franchise shall
contain all the terms and conditions of the franchise. The grantee shall bear
the costs of publication of the franchise ordinance and shall make a sufficient
deposit with the City Clerk to guarantee publication before the ordinance is
passed.
   B.   Term: No exclusive or perpetual franchise or privilege shall ever be
created, nor shall any exclusive franchise or privilege be granted for a period
of more than twenty (20) years.
   C.   Franchise Fee: As a part of any franchise ordinance adopted, the City
may impose upon the grantee a franchise fee. The franchise fee shall be
expressed as a specified charge per kilowatt hour of electric energy
transmitted, furnished, delivered, or received, which fee shall be calculated
by the City Council and imposed upon each kilowatt hour of electric energy
transmitted, furnished, delivered or received within the City. The franchise
fee may be changed by ordinance from time to time; however, no change shall be
adopted until at least thirty (30) days after written notice enclosing such
proposed ordinance has been served upon the grantee by certified mail. The
franchise fee may not be changed more often than once in each calendar year.
(Ord. 31, 2nd Series, 12-5-1995)
8-1-12: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
title when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or fails
to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as otherwise
stated in specific provisions hereof. (1988 Code § 3.99)
CHAPTER 2
REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definition
8-2-2: Storage And Transporting Refuse
8-2-3: Containers
8-2-4: Collection And Disposal Of Refuse
8-2-5: Premises Served
8-2-6: Commercial Refuse
8-2-7: Disposal Of Certain Refuse At City Farm
8-2-1: DEFINITION:
"Refuse" includes all drained organic material resulting from the preparation
of food and spoiled or decayed food from any source, bottles, cans, glassware,
paper or paper products, crockery, ashes, rags, and discarded clothing, tree
and lawn clippings and solid market and industrial wastes. (1988 Code § 3.20)
8-2-2: STORAGE AND TRANSPORTING REFUSE:
   A.   Storage: It is unlawful for any person to store refuse except as herein
provided.
   B.   Transporting: It is unlawful for any person to transport refuse on any
street unless it is carried in a vehicle equipped with a leak-proof body or
container and completely covered with a heavy canvas or top to prevent loss of
contents. (1988 Code § 3.20)
8-2-3: CONTAINERS:
All refuse shall be stored in clean, rust-resistant, watertight, nonabsorbent
and washable closed containers, approved for the purpose by the City; provided,
however, that tree clippings may be stored in tied bundles no longer than four
feet (4') and lawn clippings and paper may be stored in containers protected
from wind and other elements. (1988 Code § 3.20)
8-2-4: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF REFUSE:
The City shall provide for collection and disposal of all refuse in a sanitary
manner to ensure the health, safety and general welfare of its residents, under
such terms and conditions as the City may, from time to time, deem appropriate.
Containers shall be placed at the designated collection point on days specified
by the City. Collection points will generally be the alley adjacent to the
property from which refuse is collected; but where there is no alley, the curb
line in front of such property. (1988 Code § 3.20)
8-2-5: PREMISES SERVED:
The collection and disposal of refuse provided for in this chapter shall be
from premises used and occupied for residential purposes, including apartment
buildings containing twenty five (25) dwelling units or less. Occupants of
premises used for commercial and industrial purposes, including apartment
buildings containing more than twenty five (25) dwelling units, shall provide
for their own refuse collection and disposal. (1988 Code § 3.20)
8-2-6: COMMERCIAL REFUSE:
The City may, by resolution, establish rules and regulations relating to
removal of commercial refuse. Any violation of such rules and regulations shall
constitute a petty misdemeanor and the City may provide for removal thereof and
charge the cost to the property owner. (1988 Code § 3.20)
8-2-7: DISPOSAL OF CERTAIN REFUSE AT CITY FARM:
   A.   Restrictions: Disposing of garbage, refuse and appliances at the City
farm shall be prohibited except for the disposal of yard waste, including tree
and lawn clippings, grass, leaves and garden waste. Only residents of the City
may make deposits of material at the City farm.
   B.   Penalty: Any violation of such rule shall constitute a petty
misdemeanor and the City may provide for removal thereof and charge the cost to
the violator. (Ord. 4, 2nd Series, 6-5-1989)
CHAPTER 3
WATER SERVICE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Deficiency Of Water; Shutting Off Water
8-3-2: Repair Of Leaks
8-3-3: Abandoned Services Penalties
8-3-4: Service Pipes
8-3-5: Private Water Supplies; Cross-Connections
8-3-6: Prohibited Uses Or Restricted Hours
8-3-7: Private Fire Hose Connections
8-3-8: Opening Hydrants
8-3-9: Unmetered Service
8-3-10: Water Meters
8-3-11: Code Compliance Requirement
8-3-12: Additional Rules And Regulations
8-3-1: DEFICIENCY OF WATER; SHUTTING OFF WATER:
The City is not liable for any deficiency or failure in the supply of water to
customers whether occasioned by shutting the water off for the purpose of
making repairs or connections or by any other cause whatever. In case of fire,
or alarm of fire, water may be shut off to ensure a supply for firefighting. In
making repairs or construction of new works, water may be shut off at any time
and kept off so long as may be necessary. (1988 Code § 3.30)
8-3-2: REPAIR OF LEAKS:
It is the responsibility of the consumer or owner to maintain the service pipe
from the main into the house or other building. In case of failure upon the
part of any consumer or owner to repair any leak occurring in his service pipe
within twenty four (24) hours after oral or written notice has been given the
owner or occupant of the premises, the water may be shut off and will not be
turned on until a reconnection charge has been paid and the water service has
been repaired. When the waste of water is great or when damage is likely to
result from the leak, the water will be turned off if the repair is not
proceeded with immediately. (1988 Code § 3.30)
8-3-3: ABANDONED SERVICES PENALTIES:
All service installations connected to the water system that have been
abandoned or, for any reason, have become useless for further service shall be
disconnected at the main. The owner of the premises, served by this service,
shall pay the cost of the excavation and the restoration. The City shall
perform the actual disconnection and all pipe and appurtenances removed from
the street right-of-way shall become the property of the City. When new
buildings are erected on the site of old ones, and it is desired to increase
the old water service, a new permit shall be taken out and the regular tapping
charge shall be made as if this were a new service. It is unlawful for any
person to cause or allow any service pipe to be hammered or squeezed together
at the ends to stop the flow of water, or to save expense in improperly
removing such pipe from the main. Also, such improper disposition thereof shall
be corrected by the City and the cost incurred shall be borne by the person
causing or allowing such work to be performed. (1988 Code § 3.30)
8-3-4: SERVICE PIPES:
Every service pipe must be laid in such manner as to prevent rupture by
settlement. The service pipe shall be placed not less than seven feet (7')
below the surface in all cases so arranged as to prevent rupture and stoppage
by freezing. Frozen service pipes between the main and the building shall be
the responsibility of the owner. Service pipes must extend from the mains to
the inside of the building; or if not taken into a building then to the hydrant
or other fixtures which they are intended to supply. A valve, the same size as
the service pipe, shall be placed close to the inside wall of the building,
ahead of the meter and well protected from freezing. Joints on copper tubing
shall be flared or compression-fitted, and kept to a minimum. Not more than one
joint shall be used for a service up to seventy feet (70') in length. All
joints shall be left uncovered until inspected. Minimum size connection with
the water mains shall be three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter. (1988 Code §
3.30)
8-3-5: PRIVATE WATER SUPPLIES; CROSS-CONNECTIONS:
No water pipe of the City water system shall be connected with any pump, well,
pipe, tank or any device that is connected with any other source of water
supply and when such are found, the City shall notify the owner or occupant to
disconnect the same and, if not immediately done, the City water shall be
turned off. Before any new connections to the City system are permitted, the
City shall ascertain that no cross-connections will exist when the new
connection is made. When a building is connected to "City water" the private
water supply may be used only for such purposes as the City may allow. (1988
Code § 3.30)
8-3-6: PROHIBITED USES OR RESTRICTED HOURS:
Whenever the City shall determine that a shortage of water threatens the City,
it may entirely prohibit water use or limit the times and hours during which
water may be used from the City water system for lawn and garden sprinkling,
irrigation, car washing, air conditioning, and other uses, or either or any of
them. It is unlawful for any water consumer to cause or permit water to be used
in violation of such determination after public announcement thereof has been
made through the news media specifically indicating the restrictions thereof.
(1988 Code § 3.30)
8-3-7: PRIVATE FIRE HOSE CONNECTIONS:
Owners of structures with self-contained fire protection systems may apply for
and obtain permission to connect the street mains with hydrants, large pipes,
and hose couplings, for use in case of fire only, at their own installation
expense and at such rates as the Council may adopt by resolution as herein
provided. (1988 Code § 3.30)
8-3-8: OPENING HYDRANTS:
It is unlawful for any person, other than members of the Fire Department or
other person duly authorized by the City, in pursuance of lawful purpose, to
open any fire hydrant or attempt to draw water from the same or in any manner
interfere therewith. It is also unlawful for any person so authorized to
deliver or suffer to be delivered to any other person any hydrant key or
wrench, except for the purposes strictly pertaining to their lawful use. (1988
Code § 3.30)
8-3-9: UNMETERED SERVICE:
Unmetered service may be provided for construction, flooding skating rinks, and
any other purpose. Such service shall be at a duly adopted rate. Where it is
difficult or impossible to accurately measure the amount of water taken,
unmetered service may be provided and the unmetered rate applied; provided,
however, that by acceptance thereof the consumer agrees to have the City
estimate the water used. In so estimating the City shall consider the use to
which the water is put and the length of time of unmetered service. (1988 Code
§ 3.30)
8-3-10: WATER METERS:
The Public Utilities Commission shall adopt rules and regulations relating to
water meters. (1988 Code § 3.30)
8-3-11: CODE COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENT:
All piping, connections and appurtenances shall be installed and performed
strictly in accordance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code. Failure to install or
maintain the same in accordance therewith, or failure to have or permit
required inspections shall, upon discovery by the City, be an additional ground
for termination of water service to any consumer. (1988 Code § 3.30)
8-3-12: ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Council may, by resolution, adopt such additional rules and regulations
relating to placement, size and type of equipment as it, in its discretion,
deems necessary or desirable. Copies of such additional rules and regulations
shall be kept on file in the Office of the City Clerk, and uniformly enforced.
(1988 Code § 3.30)
CHAPTER 4
SEWERAGE SERVICE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Unlawful Acts
8-4-3: Connection Required
8-4-4: Private Wastewater Disposal
8-4-5: Building Sewers And Connections
8-4-6: Use Of Public Services
8-4-7: Utility Disconnection After Building Demolition, Removal Or Abandonment
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall have the meanings hereinafter designated:
ASTM: American Society for Testing Materials.
ACT: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
AUTHORITY: The City of Sleepy Eye, Minnesota, or its representative thereof.
BOD5 OR BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND: The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C) in terms of milligrams per
liter (mg/L).
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning
immediately outside the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the chemical
oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory procedures,
and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/L).
CITY ENGINEER: An employee of the City holding that position, if there is one,
or otherwise the City's consulting engineering firm.
COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
permit if the treatment facilities are designed to treat such pollutants to a
degree which complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the permit.
CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure specially constructed for the purpose of measuring
flow and sampling of wastes.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
FECAL COLIFORM: Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
persons and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
GARBAGE: Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking, and serving of food.
INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Any pollutant that is not defined as a "compatible
pollutant" including nonbiodegradable dissolved solids.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Gaseous, liquid, and solid wastes resulting from industrial
or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the development,
recovery, and processing of natural resources, as distinct from residential or
domestic strength wastes.
INDUSTRY: Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E, and I.
INFILTRATION: Water entering the sewage system (including building drains and
pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections, and manhole walls.
INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I): The total quantity of water from both infiltration
and inflow.
INFLOW: Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
INTERFERENCE: The inhibition or disruption of the City's wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the City's NPDES and/or SDS permit. The term
includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the City in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under section 405 of the Act or any
regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air
Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or more stringent State criteria
applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the City.
MPCA: Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS: Federal regulations establishing
pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-owned
wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not susceptible to
treatment by such treatment facilities or would interfere with the operation of
such treatment facilities, pursuant to section 307(b) of the Act.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT: A permit issued
by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to sections 402
and 405 of the Act.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers, which
overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water
or ground water.
NONCONTACT COOLING WATER: The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added, is heat.
NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE: Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than two hundred twenty
five milligrams per liter (225 mg/L) and a suspended solids (TSS) concentration
not greater than two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/L).
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to the
introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly- owned treatment works.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   Collection Sewer: A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect wastewaters
from individual point source discharges and connections.
   Combined Sewer: A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a storm
sewer.
   Forcemain: A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
   Interceptor Sewer: A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport wastewater
from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
   Private Sewer: A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a public
authority.
   Public Sewer: A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
   Sanitary Sewer: A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   Storm Sewer Or Storm Drain: A drain or sewer intended to carry stormwaters,
surface runoff, ground water, subsurface water, street wash water, drainage,
and unpolluted water from any source.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facility which has a discharge flow: a) in excess of twenty five thousand
(25,000) gallons per average work day, or b) has exceeded five percent (5%) of
the total flow received at the treatment facility, or c) whose waste contains a
toxic pollutant in toxic amounts pursuant to section 307(a) of the Act, or d)
whose discharge has a significant effect, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal system, the quality
of sludge, the system's effluent quality, or emissions generated by the
treatment system.
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given
constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration longer
than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times the average twenty four
(24) hour concentration of flows during normal operation, and shall adversely
affect the collection and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT: Any permit (including any terms, conditions
and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
115.07 for a disposal system as defined by Minnesota Statutes 115.01,
subdivision 8.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) OR TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS): The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
TOXIC POLLUTANT: The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse effects as defined in standards issued pursuant to section 307(a) of
the Act.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
USER: Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the City's wastewater disposal system.
WPCF: The Water Pollution Control Federation.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of the City and referred to as sewage. From the
standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and stormwater that
may be present.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS OR TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of any devices,
facilities, structures, equipment, or processes owned or used by the City for
the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of Municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or structures
necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers, outfall
sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power, and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
WATERCOURSE: A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water, either
continuously or intermittently. (1988 Code § 3.40; amd. 1996 Code)
8-4-2: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Objectionable Waste: It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit,
or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property, any human or animal excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
   B.   Wastewater Or Polluted Waters: It is unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided.
   C.   Privy, Privy Vault, Septic Tank, Cesspool Or Other Facility: Except as
provided hereinafter, it is unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy
vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of wastewater. (1988 Code § 3.40)
8-4-3: CONNECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   Owner Responsibility: The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes from which
wastewater is discharged, and which is abutting any street in which there is a
public sanitary sewer of the City, shall be required at the owner's expense to
install a suitable service connection to the public sewer within thirty (30)
days of the date said public sewer is operational, provided said public sewer
is within five hundred feet (500') of the structure generating the wastewater.
All future buildings constructed on property adjacent to the public sewer shall
be required to immediately connect to the public sewer. If sewer connections
are not made pursuant to this section, an official thirty (30) days' notice
shall be served instructing the affected property owner to make said
connection.
   B.   City Abate Failure: In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a
public sewer in compliance with a notice, the City may undertake to have said
connection made and shall assess the cost thereof against the benefited
property. (1988 Code § 3.40)
8-4-4: PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
   A.   Unavailability Of Public Sewer: Where a public sewer is not available,
the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system.
   B.   Permit Required: Prior to commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
signed by the City. The application for such permit shall include plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the City.
   C.   Compliance With City Standards: A permit for a private wastewater
disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the City. The City shall be allowed to inspect the work
at any stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit
shall notify the City when work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within seventy
two (72) hours of the receipt of notice.
   D.   Compliance With MCAR Standards: The type, capacities, location, and
layout of a private wastewater disposal system shall comply with all
requirements of 6 MCAR 4.8040, entitled "Individual Sewage Treatment System
Standards". No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   E.   City Connection Required When Available: At such time as a public sewer
becomes available to a property serviced by a private wastewater disposal
system, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within thirty
(30) days, and within thirty (30) days any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private wastewater disposal systems shall be cleaned of sludge. The bottom
shall be broken to permit drainage, and the tank or pit filled with suitable
material.
   F.   Owner Responsibility: The owner shall operate and maintain the private
wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense
to the City. (1988 Code § 3.40)
8-4-5: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Sufficient Downstream Capacity Required: Any new connection to the
sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited unless sufficient capacity is
available in all downstream facilities including, but not limited to, capacity
for flow, BOD5, and suspended solids, as determined by the City Engineer. (1988
Code § 3.40; amd. 1996 Code)
   B.   Permit Application; Contents: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: 1) for residential and commercial service, and 2) for
service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or any other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the City. The industry, as
a condition of permit authorization, must provide information describing its
wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type of activity.
   C.   Owner Bears Costs: All costs and expenses incidental to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may be directly
or indirectly occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   D.   Independent Connections Required; Exception; Liability: A separate and
independent building sewer shall be provided for every building, except where
one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private
sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an
adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway. The building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered one
building sewer. The City does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such connection
aforementioned.
   E.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and
test, to meet all requirements of this section.
   F.   Compliance With Standards: The size, slopes, alignment, materials of
construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling of the trench, shall
all conform to the requirements of the State of Minnesota Plumbing Code or
other applicable rules and regulations of the City. In the absence of Code
provisions or in the amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No.
9, shall apply.
   G.   Elevation Requirements: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be
brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
public sewer, sanitary sewer carried by such building drain shall be lifted by
an approved means and discharged to the building sewer. (1988 Code § 3.40)
   H.   Prohibited Discharges; Discharge Of Water From Roof, Surface, Swimming
Pool Or Other Natural Precipitation:
      1.   Purpose: In adopting this subsection, the City Council finds that
the discharge of water from any roof, surface, ground, sump pump, footing tile
or swimming pool or other natural precipitation into the City sewerage system
will and has on numerous occasions in the past, flooded and overloaded the
sewerage system to such an extent as to cause significant and grave damage to
the property of large numbers of City residents. Such damage is caused by the
backup of sewage into the living quarters of residents and in addition to other
damage creates a hazard to health. The City Council, therefore, finds it
essential to the maintenance of health and to minimize damage to property that
the provisions of this subsection H be strictly enforced to avoid emergencies
in the future.
      2.   Definition; Method: No water from any roof, surface, ground, sump
pump, footing tile, swimming pool or other natural precipitation shall be
discharged into the sanitary sewerage system. Dwellings and other buildings and
structures which require, because of the infiltration of water into basements,
crawl spaces and the like, a sump pump system to discharge excess water, shall
have a permanently installed discharge line which shall not at any time
discharge water into the sanitary sewerage system, except as provided herein. A
permanent installation shall be one which provides for year-around discharge
capability to either the outside of the dwelling, building or structure, or is
connected to the City storm sewer or discharges through the curb and gutter to
the street. It shall consist of a rigid discharge line, without valving or
quick connections for altering the path of discharge, and if connected to the
City storm sewer line, include a check valve.
      3.   Disconnection: Before April 1, 1992, any person having a roof,
surface, ground, sump pump, footing tile or swimming pool now connected and/or
discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall disconnect and/or remove same.
Any disconnects or openings in the sanitary sewer shall be closed or repaired
in an effective, workmanlike manner, as approved by the building official.
      4.   Inspection: Every person owning improved real estate that discharges
into the City sanitary sewer system shall allow an employee of the City or
their designated representative to inspect the buildings to confirm that there
is no sump pump or other prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer system.
In lieu of having the City inspect their property, any person may furnish a
certificate from a licensed plumber certifying that their property is in
compliance with this subsection. Any person refusing to allow their property to
be inspected or refusing to furnish a plumber's certificate within fourteen
(14) days of the date City employee(s) or their designated representatives are
denied admittance to the property, shall immediately become subject to the
surcharge hereinafter provided for. Any property found to violate this
subsection shall make the necessary changes to comply with this subsection and
furnish proof of the changes to the City by April 1, 1992.
      5.   Future Inspections: At any future time, if the City has reason to
suspect that an illegal connection may exist in a premises, the owner, by
written notice shall comply with the provisions of subsection H4 of this
section. (Ord. 13, 2nd Series, 6-4-1991)
      6.   Waivers: A property owner may request a waiver allowing water
prohibited by other provisions of this subsection to be discharged into the
sanitary sewer. The property owner shall make application for the waiver by
applying at the City Clerk's Office. A City employee or designee of the City
shall remove the seal allowing unauthorized water into the sanitary sewer. Upon
approval of a waiver, a property owner shall be allowed to temporarily
discharge directly into the sanitary sewer system between the dates of October
15 through April 1, and provided the applicant agrees to pay an additional fee
as established by resolution of the City Council for the additional sewer
service. The holder of a waiver shall disconnect from the sanitary sewer and
have sealed the connection which allowed the unauthorized water into the
sanitary sewer by a City employee or party designated by the City. Failure to
seal the connection as specified will place the waiver holder in violation of
this subsection. (Ord. 16, 2nd Series, 10-6-1992)
      7.   Penalty: A surcharge of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month is
hereby imposed and added to every sewer billing mailed on and after April 1,
1992, to property owners who are not in compliance with this subsection. The
surcharge shall be added every month through October, 1992, until the property
is in compliance. The surcharge shall continue to be levied monthly for the
months of April through October (both inclusive) of every year, on properties
not complying with this subsection.
   I.   Compliance With Acceptable Standards: The connection of the building
sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State of
Minnesota Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the City,
or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the
WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and
watertight, and verified by proper testing to prevent the inclusion of
infiltration/inflow. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials
must be approved by the City prior to installation.
   J.   Inspection Notice: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall
notify the City when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection and inspection shall be made under the
supervision of the City Engineer or authorized representative thereof.
   K.   Public Safety: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work, shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City.
(1988 Code § 3.40; amd. 1996 Code)
8-4-6: USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES:
   A.   Acceptable Discharges; Stormwater And All Other Unpolluted Drainage:
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by
the City and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling water of unpolluted
process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet on approval
of the City and upon approval and the issuance of a discharge permit by the
MPCA.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, and sulfides.
      2.   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch
manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers,
ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw,
shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood,
plastic, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
      3.   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater disposal system.
      4.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant
identified pursuant to section 307(a) of the Act.
   C.   Limited Discharges: The following described substances, materials,
water, or wastes shall be limited in discharges to Municipal systems to
concentrations or quantities which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater
treatment works treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect
on the receiving stream and/or soil, vegetation and ground water, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limbs, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The
City Engineer may set limitations lower than limitations established in the
regulations below if, in his opinion, such more severe limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his opinion as to the
acceptability of wastes, the City Engineer will give consideration to such
factors as the quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in
the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, the City's NPDES and/or SDS permit, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on
materials or characteristics of waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary
sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the engineer are as
follows:
      1.   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65.6°C), or causing, individually or in combination
with other wastewater, the influent at the wastewater treatment plant to have a
temperature exceeding one hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104°F) (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment works resulting in interference therein.
      2.   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/L) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees (32°) (0°C) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations
of mineral origin of greater than one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/L),
whether emulsified or not.
      3.   Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
"slug" as defined herein.
      4.   Any garbage not "properly shredded", as defined herein. Garbage
grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where
garbage originates from the preparation of food on the premises or when served
by caterers.
      5.   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
      6.   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      7.   Noncontact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage, or ground
water.
      8.   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in
such quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal
system.
      9.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the City Engineer in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      10.   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to such
degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works is in excess of the following limits for such
materials:
         0.5 mg/L arsenic
         0.5 mg/L cadmium
         1.5 mg/L copper
         0.5 mg/L cyanide
         1.5 mg/L lead
         0.05 mg/L mercury
         1.5 mg/L nickel
         0.5 mg/L silver
         0.5 mg/L total chromium
         1.5 mg/L zinc
         Phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by City's wastewater
treatment system
      11.   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation, or ordinance of
any regulatory agency, or State or Federal regulatory body.
      12.   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of such
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
such materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of subsection P of this
section.
   D.   Protection Of Public Sewer: If any waters or wastes are discharged or
are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in subsection C of this section and/or
which in the judgment of the City Engineer, may have a deleterious effect upon
the wastewater treatment facilities, processes, or equipment; receiving waters,
and/or soil, vegetation, and ground water; or which otherwise create a hazard
to life or constitute a public nuisance, the City may:
      1.   Reject the wastes,
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers, pursuant to section 307(b) of the Act and all addendums thereof,
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or,
      4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating, and
disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
   E.   Pretreatment Equipment Standards: If the City permits the pretreatment
or equalization of waste flows, the design, installation, and maintenance of
the facilities and equipment shall be made at the owner's expense, and shall be
subject to the review and approval of the City pursuant to the requirements of
the MPCA.
   F.   Dilution Prohibited: No user shall increase the use of process water
or, in any manner, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete
substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations
contained in this section or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or any State requirements.
   G.   Maintenance Of Special Facilities: Where pretreatment or flow-
equalizing facilities are provided or required for any waters or wastes, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation at the
expense of the owner.
   H.   Interceptors Provided: Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
provided when, in the opinion of the City Engineer, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive
amounts, as specified in this section, any flammable wastes as specified in
this section, sand or other harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All
interceptors shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner
shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured
materials by appropriate means, and shall maintain a record of dates and means
of disposal which are subject to review by the City Engineer. Any removal and
hauling of the collecting materials not performed by the owner's personnel,
must be performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
   I.   Control Manholes: Where required by the City, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable structure, or control manhole, with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of wastes. Such structure shall be accessible and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the City. The
structure shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be
maintained by the owner to be safe and accessible at all times.
   J.   Owner Responsible For Tests: The owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the City,
be required to provide laboratory measurements, tests, or analyses of waters or
wastes to illustrate compliance with this section and any special condition for
discharge established by the City or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction
over the discharge. The number, type, and frequency of sampling and laboratory
analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the City. The
industry must supply a complete result of the analysis measurements, or tests
showing that all Federal, State and local standards are being met. The owner
shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the City at
such times and in such manner as prescribed by the City. The owner shall bear
the expense of all measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the City.
At such times as deemed necessary, the City reserves the right to take
measurements and samples for analysis by an independent laboratory.
   K.   Tests And Analyses Paid By Owner: All measurements, tests, and analyses
of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this
section shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American
Public Health Association. Sampling methods, location, times, duration and
frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by
the City Engineer.
   L.   Slugs And Accidental Discharges: Where required by the City, the owner
of any property serviced by a sanitary sewer shall provide protection from an
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by
this section. Where necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges of
prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner's expense.
Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this
protection shall be submitted to the City Engineer for review and approval
prior to construction of the facility. Review and approval of such plans and
operating procedures shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to
modify the user's facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
section. Users shall notify the City immediately upon having a slug or
accidental discharge of substances of wastewater in violation of this section
to enable countermeasures to be taken by the City Engineer to minimize damage
to the wastewater treatment works. Such notification will not relieve any user
of any liability for any expense, loss or damage to the wastewater treatment
system or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on the City on account
thereof under any State and Federal law. Employers shall insure that all
employees who may cause or discover such a discharge, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   M.   Catch Basin/Waste Trap: No person, having charge of any building or
other premises which drains into the public sewer, shall permit any substance
or matter which may form a deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the
public sewer. Within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice from the
City, the owner shall install a suitable and sufficient catch basin or waste
trap, or if one already exists, shall clean out, repair or alter the same, and
perform such other work as the City Engineer may deem necessary. Upon the
owner's refusal or neglect to install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean
out, repair, or alter the same after the period of thirty (30) days, the City
may cause such work to be completed at the expense of the owner or
representative thereof.
   N.   Repairs/Maintenance: Whenever any service connection becomes clogged,
obstructed, broken or out of order, or detrimental to the use of the public
sewer, or unfit for the purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause
such work to be done as the City Engineer may direct. Each day after thirty
(30) days that a person neglects or fails to so act shall constitute a separate
violation of this subsection and the City may then cause the work to be done,
and recover from such owner or agency the expense thereof by a civil action.
   O.   Car-Wash Wastewater: The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing
or servicing facility shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at
all times, a catch basin or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent
grease, oil, dirt or any mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
   P.   Cost Of Damages Assessed To Owner: In addition to any penalties that
may be imposed for violation of any provision of this section, the City may
assess against any person the cost of repairing or restoring sewers or
associated facilities damaged as a result of the discharge of prohibited
wastes. (1988 Code § 3.40; amd. 1996 Code)
8-4-7: UTILITY DISCONNECTION AFTER BUILDING DEMOLITION, REMOVAL OR ABANDONMENT:
   A.   Disconnect And Seal: When any structure, house or commercial building
is taken down, removed or abandoned, and that structure had a City sanitary
sewer connection, that connection will be disconnected and sealed at the
property line.
   B.   Time Frame; Waiver: The owner of the property shall have thirty (30)
days from the date of removal to make said utility disconnection. This section
may be waived upon application and approval by the City Council. (Ord. 20, 2nd
Series, 10-5-1993)
CHAPTER 5
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Sewer Service Charge System
8-5-3: Determination Of Sewer Service Charges
8-5-4: Sewer Service Fund
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of the terms
used in this chapter shall be as hereinafter designated:
ADMINISTRATION: Those fixed costs attributable to administration of the
wastewater treatment works (i.e., billing and associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs).
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR BOD5: The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct said facilities.
EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE: Wastewater having a BOD5 and/or TSS greater than domestic
waste as defined herein and not otherwise classified as an incompatible waste.
INCOMPATIBLE WASTE: Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
INDUSTRIAL USERS OR INDUSTRIES: Are:
   A.   Entities that discharge into a publicly-owned wastewater treatment
works, liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in industrial or
manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural resources.
These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972,
Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemental under one of the
following divisions:
      1.    Division A - Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing.
      2.   Division B - Mining.
      3.    Division D - Manufacturing.
      4.    Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and
Sanitary Sewers.
      5.    Division I - Services.
   B.   For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be considered
to have the following characteristics:
      1.   BOD5: Less than two hundred twenty five milligrams per liter (225
mg/L).
      2.    Suspended solids: Less than two hundred fifty milligrams per liter
(250 mg/L).
   C.   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly-owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any Municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER: The liquid processing wastes from an industrial
manufacturing process, trade, or business including, but not limited to, all
Standard Industrial Classification Manual Divisions A, B, D, E, and I
manufacturers as distinct from domestic wastewater.
NONRESIDENTIAL USER: Any place of business which discharges sanitary waste as
distinct from industrial wastewater.
NONRESIDENTIAL WASTEWATERS: Domestic wastewater, emanating from a place of
business as distinct from industrial wastewater.
NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER: Wastewater that is primarily produced by
residential users, with BOD5 concentrations not greater than two hundred twenty
five milligrams per liter (225 mg/L) and suspended solids concentrations not
greater than two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/L).
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE: Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the design or
useful life, whichever is longer, of the treatment works and at the level of
performance for which the treatment works were constructed. Operation and
maintenance includes replacement.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS: Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
PUBLIC WASTEWATER AND COLLECTION SYSTEM: A system of sanitary sewers owned,
maintained, operated and controlled by the City.
REPLACEMENT: Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories, or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
REPLACEMENT COSTS: Expenditures for replacement.
RESIDENTIAL USER: A user of the treatment facilities whose premises or building
is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including dwelling
units such as detached and semi- detached housing, apartments, and mobile
homes; and which discharges primarily normal domestic strength sanitary wastes.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water- carried wastes
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions,
together with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters which are
not admitted intentionally.
SEWER SERVICE CHARGE: The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service, and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users to the City's wastewater
treatment facilities.
SEWER SERVICE FUND: A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditure of
the Sewer Service Fund will be for operation, maintenance and replacement
costs; and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
treatment.
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given
constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration longer
than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times the average twenty four
(24) hour concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely
affect the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment
works.
STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION MANUAL: Office of Management and Budget,
1972.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) OR TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS): The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
TOXIC POLLUTANT: The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants as defined in standards issued pursuant to section 307(a) of the
Act, which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse effects.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the user's
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
USERS: Those residential, nonresidential and industrial establishments which
are connected to the public sewer collection system.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of the City, also referred to as sewage. From the
standpoint of source it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and stormwater that
may be present.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS OR TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of any devices,
facilities, structures, equipment, or processes owned or used by the City for
the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of Municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or structures
necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers, outfall
sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power, and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from such treatment. (1988 Code § 3.41)
8-5-2: SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM:
   A.   Expenditures: The sewer service charge system will be used to effect
all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance, and replacement
and for debt service on capital expenditure incurred in constructing the
wastewater treatment works, and a proportionate share of the cost of operation,
and deposited in the Sewer Service Fund.
   B.   Administration Of Fund: The Sewer Service Fund will be administered in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (1988 Code § 3.41)
8-5-3: DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   User Classes: Users shall be identified as belonging to one of the
following user classes: 1) residential; 2) nonresidential; or, 3) industrial.
Allocation of users to user classes shall be based on the substantive intent of
the definitions of these classes contained herein.
   B.   Operation, Maintenance And Repair Costs Established: Each user shall
pay operation, maintenance, and replacement costs in proportion to the user's
proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and loadings to the treatment
plant, with the minimum rate for loadings of BOD and TSS being the rate
established for concentrations of two hundred twenty five milligrams per liter
(225 mg/L) BOD and two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/L) TSS (i.e.,
normal domestic strength wastewater). Those industrial users discharging
segregated normal domestic strength wastewater only, can be classified as
nonresidential users for the purpose of rate determination.
   C.   Billable Wastewater Volume Calculated: The charges assessed residential
users and those users of other classes discharging normal domestic strength
wastewater shall be established proportionately according to billable
wastewater volume. Billable wastewater volume shall be calculated as follows:
      1.   Residential Users: Billable wastewater volume for residential users
shall be calculated on the basis of metered water usage as averaged between the
months of December, January and February. The City may require residential
users to install water meters for the purpose of determining billable
wastewater volume.
      2.   Nonresidential Users And Industrial Users: The billable wastewater
volume of nonresidential users will be determined on one hundred percent (100%)
of the metered water usage as recorded monthly throughout the year or
calculated on the basis of wastewater flow meters. The City may, at its
discretion, require nonresidential users to install such additional water
meters or wastewater flow meters as may be necessary to determine billable
wastewater volume.
      3.   Multiple User Classes: Where one water meter serves different user
classes, the City shall determine which appropriate user class of billings
shall be used.
   D.   Determination Of User Charges: User charges for normal domestic users
shall be determined as follows:
      1.   Calculation Of Unit Cost For Treatment Of Normal Domestic Strength
Wastewater:
 
Uomr = Comr
       Tbwv
 
 
Where:
 Uomr = Unit cost for operation, maintenance and replacement in $/100 cubic
        feet
 Comr = Total annual OM&R costs
 Tbwv = Total annual billable wastewater volume in 100 cubic feet
 
      2.   Calculation Of User Charge:
 
Uc = Uomr x bwv
 
 
Where:
 Uc   = User charge
 Uomr = Unit cost for operation, maintenance and replacement in $/100 cubic
        feet
 bwv  = Billable wastewater volume of a particular user in 100 cubic feet
 
   E.   Recovery Of Local Construction Costs: Construction costs of the
facility will be recovered through a debt service charge calculated using usage
and connection charges as follows:
      1.   Calculation Of Debt Service Unit Cost For Wastewater Volume:
 
Uds = Cds
    Tbwv
 
 
Where:
 Uds   = Unit cost for debt service in $/100 cubic feet
 Cds 1 = Cost of annual debt service assigned for wastewater volume
 Tbwv  = Total annual billable wastewater volume in 100 cubic feet
 
      Note:
         1.    City may reduce the cost of annual debt service through the use
of other City funds at its discretion.
      2.   Calculation Of Debt Service Billable Connection Cost:
 
U D = CDC
      TC
 
 
Where:   
 U D  = Unit billable connection cost for debt service
 CDC1 = Costs of annual debt service assigned for connections
 Tc   = Total number of billable connections
 
      Note:
         1.    City may reduce the cost of annual debt service through the use
of other City funds at its discretion.
      3. Calculation Of Debt Service Charge:
 
Dc = Uds x bwv = UD x U
 
Where:
 Dc  = Debt service charge
 Uds = Unit cost for debt service in $/100 cubic feet
 bwv = Billable wastewater volume of a particular user in 100 cubic feet
 U
D
=
Unit billable connection cost
U
=
Number of billable connections for a particular user
 
   F.    Determination Of Sewer Service Charges: The charge for a particular
connection shall be determined as follows:
 
SSC = Uc + Dc
 
 
Where:
 SSC = Sewer service charge
 Uc  = User charge
 Dc  = Debt service charge
 
   G.   Additional Assessment Allowed: The sewer service charges established in
this chapter shall not prevent the assessment of additional charges to users
who discharge wastes with concentrations greater than normal domestic strength
or wastes of unusual character, or contractual agreements with such users, as
long as the following conditions are met:
      1.    The user pays operation, maintenance, and replacement costs in
proportion to the user's proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and
loadings to the treatment plant, and no user is charged at a rate less than
that of "normal domestic strength wastewater".
      2.    The measurements of such wastes are conducted according to the
latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater" in a manner acceptable to the City.
   H.    Greater Than Normal Domestic Strength/Unusual Character: A study of
unit costs of collection and treatment processes attributable to flow, BOD, TSS
and other significant loadings may be developed for determining the
proportionate allocation of costs to flows and loadings for users discharging
wastes of greater than normal domestic strength or wastes of unusual character.
(1988 Code § 3.41)
8-5-4: SEWER SERVICE FUND:
   A.    Establishment: A Sewer Service Fund is hereby established as an income
fund to receive all revenues generated by the sewer service charge system, and
all other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement and
construction of the wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special
charges, fees, and assessments intended to retire construction debt. The
following accounts are established as income and expenditure accounts within
the Sewer Service Fund:
      1.    Operation and maintenance and equipment replacement account.
      2.    Debt retirement account.
   B.    Revenue: All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system, and
all other income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the City
Clerk separate and apart from all other funds of the City. Funds received by
the Sewer Service Fund shall be transferred to the operation and maintenance
and equipment replacement account, and the debt retirement account in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (1988 Code § 3.41)
CHAPTER 6
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS AND WATER WELLS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
8-6-2: Private Water Wells
8-6-1: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
It is unlawful to construct, reconstruct or maintain any private sewage
disposal system which is not in full compliance with the Individual Sewage
Treatment Standards of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. (1988 Code §
4.10)
8-6-2: PRIVATE WATER WELLS:
The Water Well Construction Code adopted by the Minnesota State Board of Health
is hereby adopted by reference as though set forth verbatim herein. One copy of
said Code shall be marked City of Sleepy Eye - Official Copy and kept on file
in the Office of the City Clerk and open to inspection and use by the public.
It is unlawful to construct any private water well except in accordance with
said Code. (1988 Code § 4.10)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Code Adopted
9-1-2: Application, Administration And Enforcement
9-1-3: Permits And Fees
9-1-4: Residential Design Standards
9-1-5: Violations And Penalties
9-1-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
The Minnesota State Building Code, as adopted by the Commissioner of
Administration pursuant to Minnesota Statutes chapter 16B.59 to 16B.75,
including all of the amendments, rules and regulations established, adopted and
published from time to time by the Minnesota Commissioner of Administration,
through the Building Codes and Standards Division is hereby adopted by
reference with the exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically
adopted in this chapter. The Minnesota State Building Code is hereby
incorporated in this section as if fully set out herein. (Ord. 93, 2nd Series,
3-11-2008)
9-1-2: APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The application, administration, and enforcement of the Code shall be
in accordance with Minnesota State Building Code. The Code shall be enforced
within the extraterritorial limits permitted by Minnesota Statutes 15B.62,
subdivision 1, when so established by this chapter.
   B.   The Code enforcement agency of the City of Sleepy Eye is the City
Council.
   C.   This Code shall be enforced by the Minnesota certified building
official designated by the City of Sleepy Eye to administer the Code 1 . (Ord.
93, 2nd Series, 3-11-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA 16B.65, subd. 1.
9-1-3: PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized in Minnesota Statutes 16B.62, subdivision 1.
   B.   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this Code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the City of Sleepy Eye by
resolution passed by the City Council. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be
collected on all permits issued for work governed by this Code in accordance
with Minnesota Statutes 16B.70. (Ord. 93, 2nd Series, 3-11-2008)
9-1-4: RESIDENTIAL DESIGN STANDARDS:
All residential houses shall conform to the following minimum requirements in
addition to specific requirements set out in other areas of the City Code:
   A.   Foundations: All houses shall be placed on a permanent lateral
foundation and which complies with the Uniform Building Code as adopted in
Minnesota, and which are solid for the complete circumference of the house.
   B.   Roofs: All houses shall have a pitched roof of three inches (3") per
twelve inches (12") of run, and shall have eaves of not less than six inches
(6"). (Ord. 52, 2nd Series, 1-5-1999)
9-1-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
A violation of the Code is a misdemeanor 1 . (Ord. 93, 2nd Series, 3-11-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA § 16B.69.
CHAPTER 2
UNIFORM FIRE CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Fire Code Adopted
9-2-2: Storage Of Flammable And Explosive Materials
9-2-3: Penalty
9-2-1: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
The 1998 edition of the Minnesota Uniform Fire Code is hereby adopted as though
set forth verbatim herein. One copy of said Code shall be marked "City of
Sleepy Eye - Official Copy" and kept on file in the Office of the City Clerk
and open to inspection and use by the public. (Ord. 60, 2nd Series, 1-4-2000)
9-2-2: STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE AND EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS:
No bulk plants for storage of flammable or combustible liquids, or bulk storage
of liquefied petroleum gas, not established on the effective date of this
section, shall be permitted without the approval of the Council and the Fire
Chief; except, that the Fire Chief may allow up to one hundred (100) pounds
liquefied petroleum cylinders. No storage of explosives or blasting agents
shall be permitted. (1988 Code § 10.32; amd. 1996 Code)
9-2-3: PENALTY:
Every person violates a section, subsection, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act when such
failure is prohibited or declared unlawful by a Code adopted by reference by
this chapter, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof. (1988
Code § 10.99)
CHAPTER 3
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Application
9-3-3: Moving Permit; Fee
9-3-4: Building Permit; Code Compliance
9-3-5: Unlawful Acts
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this chapter shall have the meanings stated:
COMBINED MOVING PERMIT: A permit to move a building on both a street and a
highway.
HIGHWAY: A public thoroughfare for vehicular traffic which is a State trunk
highway, County State-aid highway, or County road.
HIGHWAY MOVING PERMIT: A permit to move a building on a highway for which a fee
is charged which does not include route approval, but does include regulation
of activities which do not involve the use of the highway; which activities
include, but are not limited to, repairs or alterations to a Municipal utility
required by reason of such movement.
MOVING PERMIT: A document allowing the use of a street or highway for the
purpose of moving a building.
STREET: A public thoroughfare for vehicular traffic which is not a State trunk
highway, County State-aid highway or County road.
STREET MOVING PERMIT: A permit to move a building on a street for which a fee
is charged which does include route approval, together with use of the street
and activities including, but not limited to, repairs or alterations to a
Municipal utility required by reason of such movement. (1988 Code § 4.02)
9-3-2: APPLICATION:
The application for a moving permit shall state the dimensions, weight, and
approximate loaded height of the structure or building proposed to be moved,
the places from which and to which it is to be moved, the route to be followed,
the dates and times of moving and parking, the name and address of the mover,
and the Municipal utility and public property repairs or alterations that will
be required by reason of such movement. In the case of a street moving permit
or combined moving permit the application shall also state the size and weight
of the structure or building proposed to be moved and the street alterations or
repairs that will be required by reason of such movement. All applications
shall be referred to the Public Utilities and Police Departments. All
applications for street and combined moving permits shall also be referred to
the Police Department and no such permits shall be issued until route approval
has been obtained from such departments. (1988 Code § 4.02)
9-3-3: MOVING PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required: The moving permit shall state date or dates of moving,
hours, routing, movement and parking. Permits shall be issued only for moving
buildings by building movers licensed by the State of Minnesota; except, that a
permit may be issued to a person moving his own building, or a person moving a
building which does not exceed twelve feet (12') in width, twenty five feet
(25') in length, or sixteen feet (16') in loaded height.
   B.   Fee: Fees to be charged shall be separate for each of the following: 1)
a moving permit fee to cover use of streets and route approval, and 2) a fee
equal to the anticipated amount required to compensate the City for any
Municipal utility and public property (other than streets) repairs or
alterations occasioned by such movement. All permit fees shall be paid in
advance of issuance. (1988 Code § 4.02)
9-3-4: BUILDING PERMIT; CODE COMPLIANCE:
Before any building is moved from one location to another within the City, or
from a point of origin without the City to a destination within the City,
regardless of the route of movement, it shall be inspected and a building
permit shall have been issued for at least the work necessary to bring it into
full compliance with the State Building Code. (1988 Code § 4.02)
9-3-5: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Street Moving Permit: It is unlawful for any person to move a building
on any street without a moving permit from the City.
   B.   Highway Moving Permit: It is unlawful for any person to move a building
on any highway without a highway moving permit from the City.
   C.   Payment Of Taxes And Utility Charges: It is unlawful to move any
building (including a manufactured home) if the point of origin or destination
(or both) is within the City, and regardless of the route of movement, without
having paid in full all real and personal property taxes, special assessments
and Municipal utility charges due on the premises of origin and filing written
proof of such payment with the City. (1988 Code § 4.02)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND OCCUPANCY STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Application
9-4-3: Definitions
9-4-4: Responsibilities Of Owners
9-4-5: Maintenance Of Shared Or Public Areas
9-4-6: Maintenance Of Occupied Areas
9-4-7: Storage And Disposal Of Rubbish
9-4-8: Storage And Disposal Of Garbage
9-4-9: Responsibility For Pest Extermination
9-4-10: Rodent Harborage Prohibited In Occupied Areas
9-4-11: Sanitary Maintenance Of Fixtures And Facilities
9-4-12: Minimum Heating Capability And Maintenance
9-4-13: Removal Of Snow And Ice
9-4-14: Maintenance Of Driving And Parking Areas
9-4-15: Maintenance Of Yards
9-4-16: Foundations, Exterior Walls And Roofs
9-4-17: Windows, Doors And Screens
9-4-18: Facilities To Function
9-4-19: Permissible Occupancy Per Dwelling Unit
9-4-20: Basements Not Permissible For Living
9-4-21: Commencement Of Proceedings
9-4-22: Notice And Order
9-4-23: Appeals
9-4-24: Appeal To Council
9-4-25: Enforcement
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, and the
general welfare of the people of this City. The general objectives include,
among others, the following:
   A.   To protect the character and stability of all buildings and property
within the City.
   B.   To correct and prevent conditions that adversely affect or are likely
to adversely affect the life, safety, general welfare, and health, including
the physical, mental and social well-being of persons occupying buildings
within Sleepy Eye.
   C.   To provide minimum standards for cooking, heating, and sanitary
equipment necessary to the health and safety of occupants of buildings.
   D.   To provide minimum standards for light and ventilation, necessary to
health and safety.
   E.   To prevent the overcrowding of dwellings by providing space standards
per occupant for each dwelling.
   F.   To provide minimum standards for the maintenance of existing buildings,
and to thus prevent slums and blight.
   G.   To preserve the value of land and buildings throughout the City.
With respect to rental disputes, and except as otherwise specifically provided
by the terms of this chapter, it is not the intention of the City Council to
intrude upon the fair and accepted contractual relationship between tenant and
landlord. The City Council does not intend to intervene as an advocate of
either party, nor to act as an arbiter, nor to be receptive to complaints for
tenant or landlord which are not specifically and clearly relevant to the
provisions of this chapter. In the absence of such relevancy with regard to
rental disputes, it is intended that the contracting parties exercise such
legal sanctions as are available to them without the intervention of City
government. Neither in enacting this chapter is it the intention of the City
Council to interfere or permit interference with legal rights to personal
privacy. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-2: APPLICATION:
Every building, as well as its premises, and all occupied premises within
Sleepy Eye shall conform to the requirements of this chapter, irrespective of
when such buildings may have been constructed, altered, or repaired. (Ord. 83,
2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A structure subordinate to the main or principal building
which is not authorized nor used for living or sleeping by human occupants and
which is located on the premises.
APPROVED: Acceptable to this jurisdiction.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy.
COMPLIANCE OFFICIAL: The Building Official, Code Enforcement Officer, or Police
Chief.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, designed or used predominantly for
residential occupancy of a continued nature, including one-family dwellings,
two family dwellings, and multiple family dwellings, but not including hotels
and motels.
DWELLING UNIT: A single residential accommodation which is arranged, designed,
used, or if vacant, intended for use exclusively as a domicile for one family.
Where a private garage is structurally attached, it shall be considered as part
of the building in which the dwelling unit is located.
FAMILY: A. One or more persons each related to the other by blood, marriage, or
adoption, or a group of not more than four (4) persons not all so related,
maintaining a common household in a dwelling unit and using common cooking and
kitchen facilities.
   B.   Group or foster care of not more than six (6) wards or clients by an
authorized person or persons, related by blood, marriage, or adoption, together
with their domestic servants or gratuitous guests, all maintaining a common
household in a dwelling unit approved and certified by the appropriate public
agency.
FLUSH WATER CLOSET: An approved toilet system with a bowl and trap made in one
piece connected to the City water and sewer system.
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
HABITABLE BUILDING: Any building or part thereof that meets minimum standards
for use as a home or place of abode by one or more persons.
HABITABLE ROOM: A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used for
living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water closet
compartments, laundries, furnace rooms, unfinished basements, (those without
required ventilation, required electrical outlets and required exit
facilities), pantries, utility rooms of less than fifty (50) square feet of
floor space, foyers, communicating corridors, stairways, closets, storage
spaces and workshops, hobby and recreation areas in parts of the structure
below ground level or in attics.
HEATED WATER: Water heated to a temperature of not less than one hundred twenty
degrees Fahrenheit (120°F), or such lesser temperature required by government
authority, measured at the faucet outlet.
KITCHEN: A space which contains a sink with counter working space, adequate
space for installing cooking and refrigeration equipment, and adequate space
for storage of cooking utensils.
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING: A dwelling or portion thereof containing three (3) or
more dwelling units.
NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING: All other buildings or structures other than dwellings
or dwelling units.
OCCUPANT: Any person (including owner or operator) occupying any structure,
building or part thereof, dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit or premises.
PERMISSIBLE OCCUPANT LOAD: The maximum number of persons permitted to occupy a
building or space within a building.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation or joint
venture or organization of any kind.
REFUSE: All putrescible and non-putrescible waste solids including garbage and
rubbish.
REPAIR: To restore to a sound and acceptable state of operation, serviceability
or appearance.
RODENT HARBORAGE: Any place where rodents can live, nest, or seek shelter.
ROOMING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit used
for living or sleeping but not for cooking and eating purposes.
SAFETY: The condition of being reasonably free from danger and hazards which
may cause accidents and diseases.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner.
SUBSTANDARD BUILDING: Any dwelling which does not conform to the minimum
standards established by City ordinances. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-4: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS:
No owner or person shall occupy or let another person occupy any building,
unless it and the premises are clean, sanitary, fit for human occupancy and
comply with all applicable legal requirements of the State of Minnesota and the
City of Sleepy Eye. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-5: MAINTENANCE OF SHARED OR PUBLIC AREAS:
Every owner of a building shall maintain in a clean, sanitary, and safe
condition the shared or public areas of the building or premises thereof. (Ord.
83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-6: MAINTENANCE OF OCCUPIED AREAS:
All occupants of a building shall maintain in a clean, sanitary, and safe
condition that part or those parts of the building and premises thereof that
they control. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-7: STORAGE AND DISPOSAL OF RUBBISH:
All occupants of a building shall store and dispose of all their rubbish in a
clean, sanitary, and safe manner as described in title 4 of this Code. (Ord.
83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-8: STORAGE AND DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE:
All occupants of a building shall store and dispose of all their garbage in a
clean, sanitary, and safe manner as described in title 8 of this Code within
seven (7) days. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-9: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PEST EXTERMINATION:
Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit or an occupant
of a nonresidential building containing a single unit shall be responsible for
the extermination of vermin infestations and/or rodents on the premises. Every
occupant of a nonresidential building containing more than one unit shall be
responsible for such extermination whenever their unit is the only one
infested. Notwithstanding, however, whenever infestation is caused by the
failure of the owner to maintain a building in a reasonable rodent proof or
reasonable vermin proof condition, extermination shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
Whenever extermination is the responsibility of the owner, the extermination
must be performed by a licensed pest control contractor. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series,
3-14-2006)
9-4-10: RODENT HARBORAGE PROHIBITED IN OCCUPIED AREAS:
No occupant of a building shall accumulate boxes, lumber, scrap metal, or any
other similar materials in such a manner that may provide a rodent harborage in
or about any dwelling unit or building. Stored materials shall be stacked
neatly. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-11: SANITARY MAINTENANCE OF FIXTURES AND FACILITIES:
Every occupant of a building shall keep all supplied fixtures and facilities
therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the
exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof. (Ord. 83,
2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-12: MINIMUM HEATING CAPABILITY AND MAINTENANCE:
In every dwelling unit or rooming unit when the control of the supplied heat is
the responsibility of a person other than an occupant, a temperature of at
least sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) shall be maintained three feet (3')
above the floor. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-13: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE:
Every occupant and/or owner shall be responsible for the removal of snow or ice
from the parking lots, sidewalks, and driveways on the premises. Individual
snowfalls of three inches (3") or more; or successive snowfalls accumulating to
a depth of three inches (3"), shall be removed from parking lots and driveways
within forty eight (48) hours after the cessation of snow to a depth of one
inch (1"), and shall be removed from steps and walkways within the time
specified in title 7 of this Code. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-14: MAINTENANCE OF DRIVING AND PARKING AREAS:
The owner of a building shall be responsible for providing and maintaining in
good condition, delineated parking areas and driveways. In a residential zone,
parking is not permitted on surfaces that are dirt or grass-covered. This
section shall not be applicable during snow emergencies. (Ord. 121, 2nd Series,
7-8-2014)
9-4-15: MAINTENANCE OF YARDS:
The owner shall be responsible for providing and maintaining premises yards
consistent with this Code. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-16: FOUNDATIONS, EXTERIOR WALLS AND ROOFS:
The foundation, exterior walls, and exterior roof shall be substantially water
tight and protected against vermin and rodents and shall be kept in sound
condition and repair. Every exterior wall shall be free of deterioration,
holes, breaks loose or rotting boards or timbers, and any other which might
admit rain or dampness to the interior portion of the walls or the exterior
spaces of the building. All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay resistant
woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by paint or other
protective covering or treatment. If the exterior surface is unpainted or
determined by the Code Enforcement Officer to be paint blistered, the surface
shall be painted. If the exterior surface of the pointing on any brick, block
or stone wall is loose or has fallen out, the surface shall be repaired. (Ord.
83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-17: WINDOWS, DOORS AND SCREENS:
Every window, exterior door and other exterior openings shall be substantially
tight and shall be kept in sound condition and repair. Every window, other than
a fixed window or storm window, shall be capable of being easily opened. Every
window, door and frame shall be constructed and maintained in such relation to
the adjacent wall construction as to completely exclude rain, wind, vermin, and
rodents from entering the building. Every openable window shall be supplied
with 16-mesh screens during the insect season and shall be equipped with an
approved lock if located less than six feet (6') above grade. (Ord. 83, 2nd
Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-18: FACILITIES TO FUNCTION:
Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility required under City
ordinances, and every chimney and flue, shall be installed and maintained and
shall function effectively in a safe, sound and working condition. (Ord. 83,
2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-19: PERMISSIBLE OCCUPANCY PER DWELLING UNIT:
The maximum permissible occupancy of any dwelling unit shall be determined as
follows:
   A.   For the first two (2) occupants, two hundred twenty (220) square feet
of habitable room floor space and for every additional occupant thereof, at
least one hundred (100) square feet of habitable room floor space.
   B.   In no event shall the total number of occupants exceed two (2) times
the number of habitable rooms, less kitchen, in the dwelling unit.
   C.   Not more than one family shall occupy a dwelling unit. (Ord. 83, 2nd
Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-20: BASEMENTS NOT PERMISSIBLE FOR LIVING:
Basements unfinished shall not be occupied for the purpose of living. (Ord. 83,
2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-21: COMMENCEMENT OF PROCEEDINGS:
Whenever possible, a building inspection shall be initiated within three (3)
business days of receipt of any complaint alleging a particular building to be
substandard. Whenever the Code Enforcement Officer has inspected or caused to
be inspected any building and has found and determined that such building is a
substandard building, he shall commence proceedings to cause the repair,
rehabilitation, vacation, or demolition of the building. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series,
3-14-2006)
9-4-22: NOTICE AND ORDER:
The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a notice and order directed to the
record owner of the building. The notice and order shall contain:
   A.   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located.
   B.   A statement that the Code Enforcement Officer has found the building to
be substandard with a brief and concise description of the conditions found to
render the building dangerous.
   C.   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by the
Code Enforcement Officer.
      1.   If the Code Enforcement Officer has determined that the building or
structure must be repaired the order shall require that all required permits be
secured therefore and the work physically commenced within such time (not to
exceed 30 days from the date of the order) and completed within such time as
the Code Enforcement Officer shall determine is reasonable under all
circumstances.
      2.   If the Code Enforcement Officer has determined that the building or
structure must be vacated, the order shall require that the building or
structure shall be vacated within a certain time from the date of the order as
determined by the Code Enforcement Officer.
   D.   Statements advising that if any required repair or demolition work
(without vacation being required) is not commenced within the time specified
the Code Enforcement Officer:
      1.   Will order the building vacated and posted to prevent further
occupancy until the work is completed; and
      2.   May proceed to cause the work to be done and charge the cost thereof
against the property or its owner.
   E.   Statements advising that any person having record title or legal
interest in the building may appeal from the notice and order any actions of
the Code Enforcement Officer. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-23: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by any notice or order of the Code Enforcement Officer
issued under this chapter may file a petition with the City Clerk within ten
(10) days after the notice or order.
   A.   Upon receipt of the review, the City Manager, or his designee, shall
set a date for a hearing and give the petitioner at least five (5) days prior
written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing.
   B.   At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to show
cause why the notice or order should be modified or withdrawn. The petitioner
may be represented by counsel or petitioners of choosing at his/her expense.
   C.   The hearing shall be conducted by the City Manager, provided he did not
participate in the drafting of the order. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-24: APPEAL TO COUNCIL:
Any decision rendered pursuant to section
9-4-23 of this chapter may be appealed to the City Council (Housing Board). A
petitioner seeking a decision must file written notice of appeal with the City
Clerk within ten (10) days after the decision of the City Manager. The matter
will thereupon be placed on the City Council agenda as soon as practical. The
City Council shall review the findings of fact and conclusions to determine
whether they were correct. The City Council may modify, reverse or affirm the
decision of the City Manager upon the same standard set forth in the previous
appeals section. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
9-4-25: ENFORCEMENT:
Violation of this chapter shall be a petty misdemeanor and/or remedied by the
guidelines set forth by this chapter. (Ord. 83, 2nd Series, 3-14-2006)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Intent And Purpose
10-1-3: Definitions
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the SLEEPY EYE CITY ZONING
ORDINANCE except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as "this
title". (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This title is adopted for the purpose of:
   A.   Protecting the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience and
general welfare.
   B.   Promoting orderly development of the residential, commercial,
industrial, recreational and public areas.
   C.   Providing adequate light, air and convenience of access of property.
   D.   Providing for the compatibility of different land uses and the most
appropriate use of land throughout the City.
   E.   Preventing overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures
by regulating the use of land and buildings and the bulk of buildings in
relation to the land and buildings surrounding them. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-
26-1992)
10-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of these regulations, the following terms, phrases, words and
their definitions shall have the meaning given in this section. Words used in
the present tense shall include the future tense; words in the singular number
shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the singular.
ACCESSORY USES: A land use related, but subordinate to the main use of the
property, including but not limited to garages, fences, parking lots,
gardening, and landscaping.
BED AND BREAKFAST INNS: An owner or manager occupied single- family dwelling
where lodging in up to five (5) guest rooms and breakfast are provided to the
traveling public by the resident owner or manager for compensation.
BLOCK: That property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the two
(2) nearest intersecting or intercepting streets or subdivided acreage.
BOATHOUSE: A structure designed and used solely for the storage of boats or
boating equipment.
BUILDING LINE: A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high water level
at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
COMMERCIAL USE: The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental, or trade of products, goods, and services.
COMMISSIONER: The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources.
CONDITIONAL USE: A land use which is only allowed in a district if it is listed
as such and after public hearing and additional City review with appropriate
conditions and restrictions attached to the permit.
DECK: A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises, or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site and at any point extending more than three feet (3')
above ground.
DWELLING: A structure used for human occupancy.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: Three (3) or more attached single-family dwellings.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached dwelling, built as a single housekeeping
unit occupied by individuals living as a family as distinguished from a group
occupying a lodging facility.
DWELLING SITE: A designated location for residential use by one or more persons
using temporary or movable shelter, including camping and recreational vehicle
sites.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: Two (2) attached single-family dwellings.
EXTRACTIVE USE: The use of land for surface or subsurface removal of sand,
gravel, rock, industrial minerals, other nonmetallic minerals, and peat not
regulated under Minnesota Statutes sections 93.44 to 93.51.
FEEDLOT: The raising of livestock or poultry in any confined area or pasture
where the intensity of use is such that natural vegetation cannot be
maintained.
FOREST LAND CONVERSION: The clear cutting of forested lands to prepare for a
new land use other than reestablishment of a subsequent forest stand.
HARDSHIP: The property in question cannot be put to a reasonable use if used
under the conditions allowed by the official controls; the plight of the
landowner is due to circumstances unique to the property not created by the
landowner; and the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality. Economic considerations alone shall not constitute a hardship
if a reasonable use for the property exists under the terms of this title.
HEIGHT OF STRUCTURE: The vertical distance between the highest adjoining ground
level at the structure or ten feet (10') above the lowest ground level,
whichever is lower, and the highest point of a flat roof or average height of
the highest gable of a pitched or hipped roof.
HOME OCCUPATION: A land use conducted basically within a dwelling and carried
on by the inhabitants thereof which is clearly incidental and secondary to the
residential use of the lot and does not change the character thereof.
INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING: The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row, or block.
LAND USE: A structure on the land or an activity taking place on the land.
LOT: A parcel of land designated by plat, metes and bounds, registered land
survey, auditors plot, or other accepted means and separated from other parcels
or portions by said description for the purpose of sale, lease, or separation.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
LOT WIDTH: The shortest distance between lot lines measured at the structure of
the building line.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which,
in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty feet
(40') or more in length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320)
or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to
be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to
the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning,
and electrical systems contained therein; except that the term includes any
structure which meets all the requirements and with respect to which the
manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary and
complies with the standards established under Minnesota Statutes chapter 327.
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development or the head of any successor agency with responsibility for
enforcement of Federal laws relating to manufactured homes.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon which two
(2) or more occupied manufactured homes are located either free of charge or
for compensation, and includes any building, structure, tent, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the manufactured
home park.
NONCONFORMITY: The legal use, structure or parcel of land already in existence,
recorded, or authorized before the adoption of official controls or amendments
thereto that would not have been permitted to become established under the
terms of the official controls as now written, if the official controls had
been in effect prior to the date it was established, recorded or authorized.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL: The boundary of public waters and wetlands, and
shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ordinary high water level is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel. For reservoirs and flowages, the ordinary high water level is the
operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
PERMITTED USE: A land use that is permitted with no additional hearings if the
standards of this title are adhered to.
PUBLIC WATERS: Any "water" as defined in Minnesota Statutes section 103G.005,
subdivisions 14 and 15. However, no lake, pond, or flowage of less than ten
(10) acres in size in municipalities and twenty five (25) acres in size in
unincorporated areas need be regulated for the purposes of parts 6120.2500 to
6120.3900. A body of water created by a private user where there was no
previous shoreland may, at the discretion of the local government, be exempted
from parts 6120.2500 to 6120.3900.
RESIDENTIAL BUSINESS: A land use that is clearly secondary to the residential
use of the lot but that generates traffic, noise, odor or discharges or
involves structures that are more intense than those normally found in the
neighborhood.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage treatment
system, or other facility and an ordinary high water level, sewage treatment
system, top of a bluff, road, highway, property line, or other facility.
SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM: A septic tank and soil absorption system or other
individual or cluster type sewage treatment system as described and regulated
in chapter 7080.
SEWER SYSTEM: Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, and force main, and all
other constructions, devices, appliances, or appurtenances used for conducting
sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of ultimate disposal.
SHORE IMPACT ZONE: Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of fifty percent (50%) of
the structure setback.
SHORELAND: Land located within the following high water level of a lake, pond,
or flowage; and three hundred feet (300') from a river or stream, or the
landward extent of a flood plain designated by ordinance on a river or stream,
whichever is greater. The limits of shorelands may be reduced whenever the
waters involved are bounded by topographic divides which extend landward from
the waters for lesser distances and when approved by the Commissioner.
SHORELAND ALTERATION: Any activity that changes the natural condition of the
land in the shoreland zone, including vegetation removal, earth moving,
agricultural cultivation, storm sewer structures, retaining walls, roads,
driveways and parking areas.
SIGNS, ADVERTISING: Signs advertising for something associated with a different
site than the sign site.
SIGNS, DIRECTIONAL: Signs utilized solely for directional purposes, limited to
name, turn, mileage and arrow graphic and with a maximum size of thirty two
(32) square feet.
SIGNS, IDENTIFICATION: Signs identifying the name of the business or persons
occupying the site where the sign is.
SIGNS, TEMPORARY: Signs used for a temporary period of time, including festival
banners, political signs and real estate signs.
STEEP SLOPE: Land where agricultural activity or development is either not
recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site's
soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available County soil surveys
or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
these regulations. Where specific information is not available, steep slopes
are lands having average slopes over twelve percent (12%), as measured over
horizontal distances of fifty feet (50') or more, that are not bluffs.
STREET: Public right-of-way which can be used for vehicular traffic, including
roads and highways but not including alleys.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed which requires permanent location on the
ground, including but not limited to buildings, towers, fences, roads, walls,
decks and dense vegetation groupings such as hedges and windbreaks.
STRUCTURE ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of a building such
as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
SUBDIVISION: Land that is divided for the purpose of sale, rent, or lease,
including planned unit development.
VARIANCE: Permission to vary from dimensional standards after proper public
hearing and City review.
WATER ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A small, above ground building or other
improvement, except stairways, fences, docks, and retaining walls, which,
because of the relationship of its use to a surface water feature, reasonably
needs to be located closer to public waters than the normal structure setback.
Examples of such structures and facilities include boathouses, gazebos, screen
houses, pump houses, and detached decks.
WETLAND: A surface water feature classified as a wetland in the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service Circular No. 39 (1971 edition), which is hereby
incorporated by reference, is available through the Minitex interlibrary loan
system, and is not subject to frequent change.
YARD, FRONT: All yards on the street side of the lot (not including alleys).
YARD, REAR: The yard opposite of the street. On a corner lot, there is no rear
yard.
YARD, REQUIRED: The area described when a minimum setback is required.
YARD, SIDE: All yards on adjoining lot lines or alleys that are not front yards
or rear yards. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992; amd. Ord. 23, 2nd Series, 9-6-
1994)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-2-1: Zoning Administrator
10-2-2: Board Of Adjustment And Appeals
10-2-3: Circumstances For Granting A Variance
10-2-4: Variances And Appeals Procedure
10-2-5: Planning And Zoning Commission
10-2-6: Conditional Uses
10-2-7: Conditional Use Procedure
10-2-8: Amendments
10-2-9: Amendment Procedure
10-2-1: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The City Council shall appoint a Zoning Administrator, whose responsibilities
shall be as follows:
   A.   Issue zoning permits, and make and maintain records thereof.
   B.   Conduct inspections of buildings and use of land to determine
compliance with the terms of this title.
   C.   Maintain permanent and current records of this title, including but not
limited to all maps, amendments and conditional uses, variances, appeals, and
applications therefor.
   D.   Institute in the name of the City, any appropriate actions or
proceedings against a violator as provided for in this title. (Ord. 15, 2nd
Series, 2-26-1992)
10-2-2: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS:
   A.   Appointments: The City Council is hereby appointed as the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals. The Chair (or other appointed fill-in) of the Planning
and Zoning Commission and the Zoning Administrator are hereby appointed as
nonvoting advisory members.
   B.   Duties: The Board of Adjustment and Appeals has the following powers
and duties with respect to this title:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an
error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an
Administrative Officer in the enforcement of this title.
      2.   To hear requests for variances from provisions of this title. (Ord.
15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-2-3: CIRCUMSTANCES FOR GRANTING A VARIANCE:
   A.   The property in question cannot be put to a reasonable use if used
under conditions allowed by the official controls.
   B.   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to his
property not created by the landowner.
   C.   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the
locality.
   D.   Economic considerations alone shall not constitute an undue hardship if
reasonable use for the property exists under the terms of this title.
   E.   Conditions may be imposed in the granting of variances to ensure
compliance and to protect adjacent properties.
   F.   A variance may not be granted for any use that is not permitted under
this title for property in the zone where the affected person's land is
located.
   G.   Undue hardship, as used in connection with the granting of a variance,
includes direct sunlight for solar energy systems. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-
1992)
10-2-4: VARIANCES AND APPEALS PROCEDURE:
The procedure for taking action on a variance or an appeal shall be as follows:
   A.   Filing Of Application: An application for a variance or an appeal of
the requirement, decision, or determination of an Administrative Officer shall
be filed with the City Clerk stating the peculiar difficulties claimed. A map
or drawing may be required to be part of the findings and records.
   B.   Request Referred: The request shall be referred to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals for consideration and public hearing.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall cause to
be published, a notice of public hearing, in the official newspaper at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   D.   Notification Of Property Owners: The Board of Adjustment and Appeals
shall cause the adjoining property owners to the site of the proposal, and the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources if in the Shoreland Zone, to be
notified by letter at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   E.   Public Hearing; Decision: The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall
hold the public hearing and within a reasonable time make its order deciding
the matter and shall serve a copy of such order upon the appellant or
petitioner by mail. A copy of the order shall also be sent to the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources within ten (10) days of final action if in
Shoreland Zone.
   F.   Decision Final: The decisions of the Board of Adjustment and Appeals
are final subject to judicial review in the District Court.
   G.   Record Kept: The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall provide for a
record of its proceedings which shall include the minutes of its meetings, its
findings, and the action taken on each matter heard by it, including the final
order.
   H.   Variance Filed: A certified copy of a variance granted, including the
legal description of the property involved, shall be filed with the County
Recorder of the County in which the Municipality is located. (Ord. 15, 2nd
Series, 2-26-1992)
10-2-5: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Established: As set forth in the City Charter:
      There shall be a City Planning and Zoning Commission which shall consist
of seven (7) members who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of
the majority of the Council, none of whom shall hold any other office or
position in the City government. The City Attorney and City Engineer shall
serve as ex officio members but shall not have the power of voting and shall
not be deemed to be regularly appointed members. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall elect its own chairman and any other officers it sees fit from
its appointive members. The powers, duties, rules and regulations thereof,
shall be established by ordinances.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Engage in land use planning activities.
      2.   Prepare and recommend action on this title.
      3.   Review and recommend action on all requests for amendments to this
title and conditional use permits.
      4.   Hold public hearings on the above.
      5.   Review zoning permits. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-2-6: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Specific Criteria; Immediate Property: A conditional use listed in this
title may be permitted, enlarged or altered in accordance with the standards
and conditions of this title. Also, no conditional use shall be permitted
unless the City Council shall find:
      1.   That the conditional use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted.
      2.   That the establishment of the conditional use will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding vacant property
for predominant uses in the area.
      3.   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided.
      4.   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide
sufficient off-street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use.
      5.   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to prevent or
control offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise and vibration, so that none of these
will constitute a nuisance, and to control lighted signs and other lights in
such a manner that no disturbance to neighboring properties will result.
      6.   That proper facilities are provided which would eliminate any
traffic congestion or traffic hazard which may result from the proposed use.
      7.   The demonstrated need for the proposed use.
      8.   The proposed use is in compliance with any Land Use Plan adopted by
the City.
      9.   Proof of compliance with applicable State Codes and regulations and
any inspections connected therewith. Examples include, but are not limited to
the following: the Minnesota Department of Health regulates food services and
campgrounds, lodging facilities have State safety regulations, day care
services have State license requirements and there is a State Electrical Code.
   B.   General Criteria; Surrounding Property: In addition to those standards
and requirements expressly specified by this title, additional conditions
considered necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding area or
the City as a whole, may be imposed. The conditions may include but are not
limited to the following:
      1.   Ingress and egress to the property and proposed structures thereon
with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience,
traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or catastrophe;
      2.   Off-street parking and loading areas where required with particular
attention to the items in subsection B1 of this section and the economic,
noise, glare, or odor effects of the conditional use on adjoining properties
and properties generally in the area;
      3.   Refuse and service areas, with particular reference to the items in
subsections B1 and B2 of this section;
      4.   Utilities, with reference to locations, availability and
compatibility;
      5.   Screening and buffering with reference to type, dimensions, and
character;
      6.   Signs if any, and proposed exterior lighting with reference to
glare, traffic safety, economic effect, and compatibility and harmony with
properties in the district;
      7.   Required yards and other open space;
      8.   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other property in
the area. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-2-7: CONDITIONAL USE PROCEDURE:
The procedure for taking action on a conditional use application shall be as
follows:
   A.   Application Filed: An application for a conditional use permit shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
   B.   Site Plan: The application shall be accompanied by a site plan of the
proposed use showing such information as may be necessary or desirable,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Site plan drawn to scale showing parcel and building dimensions,
      2.   Location of all buildings and their square footages,
      3.   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces and off-street
loading areas,
      4.   Existing topography,
      5.   Finished grading and drainage plan,
      6.   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated use per day,
      7.   Soil type or soil limitations for the intended use,
      8.   A map showing all principal land use within two hundred fifty feet
(250').
   C.   City Council To Study: The application and related file shall be
referred to the City Council for study concerning the effect of the proposed
use on the Land Use Plan and on the character and development of the
neighborhood.
   D.   Public Hearing: The City Council shall cause to be published a notice
of public hearing, in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to
the date of hearing.
   E.   Notice: The City Council shall cause all property owners within three
hundred fifty feet (350') of the site of the proposal, and the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources if in Shoreland Zone, to be notified by letter
notice at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   F.   Decision: The City Council shall hold the public hearing, and within a
reasonable time make its order deciding the matter and shall serve a copy of
such order upon the appellant or petitioner by mail. A copy of the order shall
also be sent to Minnesota Department of Natural Resources within ten (10) days
of final action if in the Shoreland Zone.
   G.   Compliance Required: Any use permitted under the terms of any
conditional use permit shall be established and conducted in conformity to the
terms of such permit and of any conditions designated in connection therewith.
Noncompliance could result in termination of the conditional use permit.
   H.   Validity: A conditional use permit issued hereunder shall become void
one year after it was granted unless made use of.
   I.   Status Amendment: A conditional use permit shall remain in effect as
long as the conditions agreed upon are observed, but nothing shall prevent the
City from enacting or amending this title to change the status of conditional
uses.
   J.   Filed With County: A certified copy of any conditional use permit shall
be filed with the County Recorder of the County in which the City is located
for record. The conditional use permit shall include the legal description of
the property included. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-2-8: AMENDMENTS:
An amendment to the text of this title or to a zone boundary may be initiated
by the City Council, the City Planning and Zoning Commission, or by petition of
an affected property owner. A petition by a property owner shall be filed with
the City Clerk. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-2-9: AMENDMENT PROCEDURE:
The procedure for taking action on an amendment to this title shall be as
follows:
   A.   Notice: All petitions for taking action on an amendment to this title
shall be as follows:
      1.   The City Council shall cause to be published a notice of public
hearing in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to the date of
the hearing. When the petition involves changes in zone boundaries affecting an
area of five (5) acres or less, a similar notice shall be mailed at least ten
(10) days before the day of the hearing to each owner of affected property and
property situated wholly or partly within three hundred fifty feet (350') of
the property to which the petition relates.
      2.   Notice of all proposed amendments in the Shoreland Zone shall be
mailed at least ten (10) days before the hearing to the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources.
      3.   For the purpose of giving mailed notice, the person responsible for
mailing the notice may use any appropriate records to determine the names and
addresses of owners. A copy of the notice and a list of the owners and
addresses to which the notice was sent shall be attested to by the responsible
person and shall be made a part of the records of the proceedings. The failure
to give mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the notice
shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt was made to
comply.
   B.   Public Hearing: The City Council shall hold the public hearing and make
a decision within sixty (60) days from the date of the hearings.
   C.   Amendments Following Denial: No petition of a property owner for an
amendment to this title shall be considered by the City within the one year
period immediately following a previous denial of such request, except the City
may consider a new petition if in the opinion of the Planning and Zoning
Commission new evidence or a change of circumstances warrant it.
   D.   Notification To State: Notice of the final amendments shall be mailed
to the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources within ten (10) days of the
decision if the site is in the Shoreland Zone. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
CHAPTER 3
ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Zoning Permits
10-3-2: Fees
10-3-3: Severability
10-3-4: Penalties
10-3-1: ZONING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: Hereafter no person shall erect, alter, or move any
structure or part thereof or engage in shoreland alteration without first
securing a zoning permit therefor. Zoning permits are permissive only and only
as relating to this title. No liability shall be incurred by the City upon the
granting thereof.
   B.   Alterations: For purposes of zoning permits, alterations mean any
change in the outside dimension of a structure. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-
1992)
   C.   Structures Exempt: (Rep. by Ord. 79, 2nd Series, 5-10-2005)
   D.   Permit Posted: Zoning permits shall be posted on the site before
construction commences.
   E.   Validity: Permits are valid for a year. If not complete, a
reapplication must be made or the unfinished structure shall be removed. (Ord.
15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-3-2: FEES:
Any person applying for a zoning permit, filing a petition for an amendment to
this title, requesting a variance, conditional use permit or a change in
regulations within any district shall pay a prescribed fee according to a
schedule established by the City Council. Fees shall be set annually by the
City Council by resolution. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-3-3: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this title are severable. If a section, sentence, clause or
phrase of this title is adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid, the decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
of this title. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-3-4: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this title shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof be subject to a fine and/or
imprisonment. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute
a separate offense. The City may through the issuance of an injunction stop any
violation of this title. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Interpretation Of Zoning Title
10-4-2: Compatibility With Other Regulations
10-4-3: Conformance To Title
10-4-4: Platting Requirements
10-4-5: Required Surveying For Construction, Alterations, And Additions To
Structures
10-4-1: INTERPRETATION OF ZONING TITLE:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, morals and welfare. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-4-2: COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REGULATIONS:
Where the conditions of this title are comparable with conditions imposed by
any other Federal, State or County law, ordinance, statute or regulation, the
regulations which are more restrictive shall prevail. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-
26-1992)
10-4-3: CONFORMANCE TO TITLE:
No structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used except for the
purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land is located.
(Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-4-4: PLATTING REQUIREMENTS:
No permit will be issued for any land parcel subdivided after the effective
date of this title that has not been officially platted in accordance with
State law and recorded in the County Recorder's Office, accompanied by
certified resolution of approval by the City Council, with the following
exceptions:
   A.   Parcels that are five (5) acres or larger with no public road or right-
of-way involved.
   B.   Simple splitting of a previously platted parcel where all of the
residential parcels meet minimum lot size requirements for the zoning district.
(Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-4-5: REQUIRED SURVEYING FOR CONSTRUCTION, ALTERATIONS, AND ADDITIONS TO
STRUCTURES:
   A.   No permit shall be issued for the construction of a new structure or
the alteration or addition to an existing structure, unless the owner thereof
shall first cause a physical survey of such lot or parcel of land to be made by
a registered land surveyor, which survey shall establish the boundary lines of
such lot or parcel of land by the placing of permanent monuments at the corners
of such lot or parcel of land, in accordance with recognized land surveying
principles.
   B.   Upon application by the property owner, the Planning and Zoning
Commission may, after investigation of the facts, exempt the following
transactions from the survey requirement of this section:
      1.   An alteration or an addition to an existing structure which does not
increase any dimensions of such structure.
      2.   Any parcel where the construction or the alteration or addition is
not affixed to the property.
      3.   Any parcel where the owner is able to locate existing corner
monuments as follows:
         a.   All but one of the corner markers can be located, and the parcel
has more than 3 corners; or
         b.   Where the parcel on two sides thereof abuts on streets, both of
which have been improved with curb and gutter, and all corner markers not
located on a street right-of-way line can be located.
      4.   Any parcel which is bounded by streets or alleys on all sides
thereof.
      5.   Any parcel which is located in a commercial district where such lots
and adjoining lots are improved with buildings that are built completely to the
apparent property line.
   C.   The permanent monuments shall remain in place until the Building
Inspector has inspected and approved the location of the alteration or
addition. Moving or removing of the permanent monuments prior to said approval
shall result in a second survey being required by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   D.   This section shall exclude the construction or alteration of fences,
which is governed under other provisions of the City Code. (Ord. 151, 2nd
Series, 6-9-2019)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
10-5-1: Classification Of Zones
10-5-2: Location Of Zones
10-5-3: Zoning Map
10-5-4: Zone Boundaries
10-5-5: Annexed Territory
10-5-6: General Dimension Standards
10-5-1: CLASSIFICATION OF ZONES:
The land areas of the City have been divided into zoning districts that vary in
their regulation of land uses. Land use activities must conform to the specific
zone regulations of the zoning district as well as the pertinent overall
regulations found in other portions of this title. For the purpose of this
title, the following zones are hereby established:
   R    General Residential
   M   Multi-Family Residential
   C    Downtown Commercial
   B    Business/Industrial
   I    General Industrial
   S    Shoreland Overlay (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-5-2: LOCATION OF ZONES:
The boundaries for the zones listed in this title are indicated on the Zoning
Map which is hereby adopted by reference. The boundaries shall be modified in
accordance with Zoning Map amendments which shall be adopted by reference.
(Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-5-3: ZONING MAP:
The Zoning Map or Zoning Map amendment shall be dated with the effective date
of the ordinance that adopts the map or map amendment. A certified print of the
adopted map or map amendment shall be maintained in the Office of the Zoning
Administrator. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-5-4: ZONE BOUNDARIES:
Unless otherwise specified, zone boundaries are section lines; subdivision
lines; lot lines; center line of street or railroad rights-of-way; or such
lines extended. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-5-5: ANNEXED TERRITORY:
All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the City shall be zoned in
accordance with the Land Use Plan. Consideration of zoning other than in
accordance with the Land Use Plan should not be done without amending the Land
Use Plan. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-5-6: GENERAL DIMENSION STANDARDS:
The following standards shall apply in all zones unless special standards are
listed for the specific zone. Where special standards are listed for a zone the
special standards override those shown below.
   A.   Front Yard Requirements: Minimum of twenty five feet (25') from the
street right-of-way.
   B.   Rear Yard Requirements: Minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the lot
depth.
   C.   Side Yard Requirements: Minimum of seven and one-half feet (71/2').
   D.   Residential Zone Setback: Structures associated with all uses other
than single-family residential shall be set back a minimum of twenty feet (20')
from lot lines adjoining residential zones.
   E.   Lot Size Requirements:
      1.   Lot Width: Minimum of seventy five feet (75') for lot width.
      2.   Lot Depth: Minimum of one hundred feet (100') for lot depth.
      3.   Area: Minimum of nine thousand (9,000) square feet, plus another
three thousand (3,000) square feet for each additional dwelling unit.
   F.   Dwelling Requirements: Minimum width and length of twenty feet (20').
All dwellings must be placed on a foundation.
   G.   Access Requirements: All structures must be on lots that have a minimum
frontage of twenty five feet (25') on a public street (not including alleys).
(Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992; amd. Ord. 183, 4-13-2021)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. R GENERAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Purpose
10-6A-2: Permitted Uses
10-6A-3: Conditional Uses
10-6A-4: Special Standards
10-6A-1: PURPOSE:
The R District is intended to be comprised basically of present and future low
density housing, augmented with compatible medium density housing and
appropriate miscellaneous uses. These additional uses are conditional and are
to be further regulated by applying conditional use standards. (Ord. 15, 2nd
Series, 2-26-1992)
10-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses, including temporary signs.
Government owned recreation and governmental uses.
Home occupations.
One- and two-family dwellings.
Service utilities.
State licensed foster homes or group homes serving six (6) or fewer mentally
retarded or physically handicapped persons.
Truck gardening and raising of field crops, excluding the raising of livestock.
(Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992; amd. Ord. 22, 2nd Series, 8-2-1994)
10-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Bed and breakfast inns.
Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, churches and schools.
Multiple-family dwellings up to eight (8) units.
Raising of livestock but excluding feedlots.
Recreation provided by a nonprofit organization to serve part or all of the
public need.
Residential businesses, identification and directional signs.
Seasonal lodging facilities.
State licensed residential facilities serving from seven (7) through sixteen
(16) retarded or physically handicapped persons.
Utility transmission structure.
Other uses as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission to be similar in
scope and intensity to those listed above. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992;
amd. Ord. 22, 2nd Series, 8-2-1994; Ord. 23, 2nd Series, 9-6-1994)
10-6A-4: SPECIAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Structures Over Twenty Five Feet: All structures over twenty five feet
(25') in height shall have a minimum side yard requirement of fifteen feet
(15'). (Ord. 55, 2nd Series, 6-1-1999)
   B.   Use Other Than Single Family; Minimum Side Yard: All structures
associated with uses other than single-family residential shall have a minimum
side yard requirement of twenty feet (20').
   C.   Height Of Structures: All structures except churches and agricultural
structures must not exceed thirty five feet (35') in height. (Ord. 15, 2nd
Series, 2-26-1992)
ARTICLE B. M MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Purpose
10-6B-2: Permitted Uses
10-6B-3: Conditional Uses
10-6B-4: Special Standards
10-6B-1: PURPOSE:
The M District is created in order to preserve some land that can develop to
serve the City's multi-family needs without creating incompatible situations.
To protect this goal permitted uses are few and conditional uses should be
weighed in view of their impact with future multi-family development. The Land
Use Plan also shows potential areas that could be rezoned to M if conditions
are found favorable. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-6B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses and temporary signs.
Home occupations.
Multi-family housing, three (3) to eight (8) units.
Service utilities.
Truck gardening and raising of field crops, excluding the raising of livestock.
(Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-6B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Bed and breakfast inns.
Multi-family housing over eight (8) units.
Nursing homes, hospitals, sanitariums and churches.
One- and two-family dwellings.
Public school, recreational and governmental uses.
Raising of livestock excluding feedlots.
Residential businesses and identification signs.
Seasonal lodging facilities.
State licensed residential facilities serving the retarded or physically
handicapped.
Utility transmission structures.
Other uses as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission to be similar in
scope and intensity to those listed above. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992;
amd. Ord. 23, 2nd Series, 9-6-1994)
10-6B-4: SPECIAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Off-Street Parking: There shall be a minimum of one off-street parking
stall for each dwelling unit.
   B.   Garbage And Service Areas To Be Screened: The garbage pickup areas and
service features of dwelling units shall be screened or be in the rear of the
complex. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
ARTICLE C. C DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Purpose
10-6C-2: Permitted Uses
10-6C-3: Conditional Uses
10-6C-1: PURPOSE:
The C Zone is meant to allow for continuance of the traditional commercial/
residential mix in the existing downtown core and portions of the more sparsely
developed adjacent areas. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-6C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses and temporary and identification signs.
Additions and alterations to existing residential structures.
Amusement and entertainment establishments.
Eating and drinking establishments.
Offices, professional services.
Repair and maintenance services, excluding car, implement, marine and
motorcycle sales/service.
Retail, wholesale trades.
Service utilities.
Truck gardening and raising of field crops, excluding the raising of livestock.
(Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-6C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Assembly of previously manufactured parts.
Bed and breakfast inns.
Gas stations and auto repair, excluding salvage yards.
Public schools, recreation and governmental uses.
Raising of livestock but excluding feedlots.
Single- and multi-family dwellings (up to 8).
Utility transmission structures.
Warehousing, but not of flammable, explosive or hazardous materials.
Other uses as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission to be similar in
scope and intensity to those listed above. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992;
amd. Ord. 23, 2nd Series, 9-6-1994)
ARTICLE D. B BUSINESS/INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-6D-1: Purpose
10-6D-2: Permitted Uses
10-6D-3: Conditional Uses
10-6D-4: Special Standards
10-6D-1: PURPOSE:
The B Zone is meant to allow for mixed areas that are basically commercial but
have light industry mixed in. It is also meant to allow for those commercial
activities that tend to need more land area than normally found in the downtown
area. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-6D-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses and temporary, identification and directional signs.
Additions and alterations to existing residential structures.
Amusement and entertainment establishments.
Assembly of previously manufactured parts.
Auto, implement and marine sales/service.
Eating and drinking establishments.
Gas stations.
Hotels, motels and lodging facilities.
Offices and professional services.
Repair and maintenance services.
Retail, wholesale trades.
Service utilities.
Truck gardening and raising of field crops excluding raising of livestock.
Warehousing and wholesale merchandising. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-6D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Advertising signs.
Bed and breakfast inns.
Home occupation and residential business.
Industrial offices.
Manufactured home park.
Manufacturing of previously processed materials but no on-site storage of
flammable, explosive or hazardous materials other than those being used.
Raising of livestock, but excluding feed lots.
Single- and multi-family residential (up to 8).
Truck/bus terminals and construction equipment storage yards.
Utility transmission structures.
Welding operations.
Other uses as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission to be similar in
scope and intensity to those listed above. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992;
amd. Ord. 23, 2nd Series, 9-6-1994)
10-6D-4: SPECIAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Setback: Minimum setback from County and State highway rights-
of-way shall be fifty feet (50').
   B.   Off-Street Parking: There shall be ample off-street parking to
accommodate parking needs generated by the business. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-
26-1992)
ARTICLE E. I INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-6E-1: Purpose
10-6E-2: Permitted Uses
10-6E-3: Conditional Uses
10-6E-4: Special Standards
10-6E-1: PURPOSE:
The I Zone is meant to allow for continuance and expansion of the existing
industrial uses and to provide regulations for planned industrial and in the
event that it becomes annexed to the City. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-6E-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses and temporary and identification signs.
Assembly or warehousing, and fabrication of previously manufactured parts and
welding operations.
Automobile, truck and farm machinery repair garages, excluding salvage yards.
Industrial offices.
Manufacturing of previously processed materials and no on-site storage of
flammable, explosive or hazardous materials other than those being used.
Truck/bus terminals and construction equipment storage yards.
Truck gardening and the raising of field crops, excluding the raising of
livestock.
Utility service and transmission structures.
Warehousing and wholesale merchandising. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-6E-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Advertising signs.
Junk yards, auto reduction yards and open storage yards.
Manufacturing and processing of products from raw materials.
Raising of livestock but excluding feedlots.
Recycling and storage or mixing of chemicals or minerals or agri- products.
Storage or warehousing of flammable, explosive or hazardous material.
Other uses as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission to be similar in
scope and intensity to those listed above. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-6E-4: SPECIAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Off-Street Parking: There shall be ample off-street parking to
accommodate parking needs generated by the business.
   B.   Setbacks:
      1.   Structures shall be set back a minimum of fifty feet (50') from lot
lines adjoining residential zones.
      2.   Minimum setback from County and State highways shall be fifty feet
(50'). (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
ARTICLE F. S SHORELAND OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
10-6F-1: Purpose
10-6F-2: Permitted Use
10-6F-3: Conditional Uses
10-6F-4: Special Standards
10-6F-1: PURPOSE:
The S Zone is intended to provide additional standards for shoreland
development to protect Sleepy Eye Lake from damaging land uses and to conform
with State regulations. Sleepy Eye Lake is a public water classified as general
development. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-6F-2: PERMITTED USE:
The same as permitted in the underlying zoning district, except that multi-
family residential over four (4) units are not permitted. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series,
2-26-1992)
10-6F-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The same as conditionally permitted in the underlying zoning district, except
that multi-family residential over four (4) units are not permitted. (Ord. 15,
2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-6F-4: SPECIAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Areas (In Square Feet):
  Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
               Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
With no sewer:               
 Single       20,000        40,000
 Duplex       40,000        80,000
 Triplex      60,000        120,000
 Quad         80,000        160,000
With sewer:                  
 Single       15,000        10,000
 Duplex       26,000        17,500
 Triplex      38,000        25,000
 Quad         49,000        32,500
 
   B.   Minimum Lot Widths (In Feet):
  Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
               Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
With no sewer:               
 Single       100           150
 Duplex       180           265
 Triplex      260           375
 Quad         340           490
With sewer:                  
 Single       75            75
 Duplex       135           135
 Triplex      195           190
 Quad         255           245
 
   C.   Minimum Setbacks:
      From ordinary high water level: Seventy five feet (75') for unsewered and
fifty feet (50') for sewered development. Also, nonresidential uses must be set
back double the applicable amount or be substantially screened from view from
the water by vegetation or topography, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
      From ordinary high water level: Fifty feet (50') for sewage treatment
systems.
      From cemetery, unplatted: Fifty feet (50').
   D.   Structure Elevation: The lowest floor shall be at a level at least
three feet (3') above the highest known water level or three feet (3') above
the ordinary high water level, whichever is higher. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-
1992)
CHAPTER 7
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Dimensional Regulations
10-7-2: Nonconforming Uses And Structures
10-7-1: DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS:
The district regulations hereinafter set forth in this section qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in
this title. In no case shall any of the following exceptions be utilized to
encroach into the ordinary high water setback areas.
   A.   Chimneys, Steeples, Flagpoles And Similar Objects: Chimneys, church
steeples, towers, aerials, flagpoles and similar objects not used for human
occupancy are not subject to the building height limitations of this title.
   B.   Architectural Features: Architectural features such as cornices, eaves,
canopies, sunshades, gutters, chimneys and flues can project up to two feet
(2') into a required yard, but in no case shall they be closer than two feet
(2') to the lot line.
   C.   Buildings On Abutting Lots: If there are buildings on abutting lots and
the buildings have yards of less than the required minimum setback for the
zone, the minimum setback of the front yard for the intervening lot need not
exceed the average setback of the front yards of the abutting lots.
   D.   Open, Unenclosed Porch Or Deck: An open unenclosed porch or deck no
higher than one foot (1') above ground level may project into a required yard
for a distance not exceeding ten feet (10'), but in no case shall it be closer
than two feet (2') to the lot line.
   E.   Storage Sheds: Storage sheds, behind dwellings no larger than one
hundred twenty (120) square feet in floor area, may encroach into the rear and
side yard setback areas but not closer than two feet (2') from lot lines.
   F.   Detached Garages And Similar Allowed Accessory Uses: Detached garages,
screen porches, sheds and similar allowed accessory uses behind dwellings may
encroach into the rear and side yard setback areas but no closer than four feet
(4') from lot lines.
   G.   Bituminous And Brick Slabs: At grade concrete, bituminous and brick
slabs are not subject to setback requirements, but must be within property
lines.
   H.   Nonresidential Structures: Nonresidential structures in the Downtown
Commercial Zone may encroach into the required side and rear yard areas if the
adjoining use to the yard in question is either a public right-of-way or a
nonresidential use.
   I.   Fences: Setback requirements do not apply to fences, but they must be
within property lines. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
   J.   Non-Enclosed Steps And Landings: Non-enclosed steps and landings can
encroach into required yard areas as follows, but in no case shall any part,
including steps, be closer than two feet (2') to the lot line:
      1.   Up to thirty six (36) square feet of landing may be placed in the
front yard but in no event shall extend more than six feet (6') from the front
of the house.
      2.   Up to a four foot (4') by five foot (5') structure in the side
yards. (Ord. 98, 2nd Series, 5-12-2009)
10-7-2: NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES:
Where at the time of adoption of the ordinance codified in this title, lawful
uses of land or structures exist which would not be permitted by the
regulations imposed by this title, the uses may be continued so long as they
conform to the following requirements:
   A.   Alterations And Extensions: A nonconforming use or structure may be
continued but may not be altered or extended. The extension of a nonconforming
use to a portion of a structure which was arranged or designed for the
nonconforming use at the time of passage of this title is not an enlargement or
expansion of a nonconforming use. A nonconforming structure which conforms with
respect to use may be altered or extended if the alteration or extension does
not cause the structure to deviate further from the standards of this title.
   B.   Discontinuation: If a nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of
one year, further use of the property shall conform to the requirements of this
title.
   C.   Replacement: If a nonconforming use is replaced by another use, the new
use shall conform to this title.
   D.   Destruction: If a nonconforming structure or a structure containing a
nonconforming use is destroyed by any cause to an extent exceeding fifty
percent (50%) of its fair market value as indicated by the records of the
County Assessor, a future structure or use on the site shall conform to this
title.
   E.   Legal But Nonconforming Defined: Any structure which will, under this
title, become nonconforming but for which a building permit has been lawfully
granted prior to the effective date of this title or amendment thereof and
continues to completion within one year shall thereafter be a legally existing
nonconforming structure.
   F.   Maintenance: Normal maintenance of a building or other structure
containing or related to a lawful nonconforming use and incidental alterations
which do not extend or intensify the nonconforming use.
   G.   Nonconforming Lots: Lots of record that are nonconforming in area can
be built on with proper variances but all such lots that are contiguous and
with a common owner at the time of the adoption of the ordinance codified in
this title shall be combined to create lots of proper size in order to receive
a building permit. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
CHAPTER 8
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Application
10-8-2: Fire Hazards
10-8-3: Sewage Facilities
10-8-4: Vibration
10-8-5: Air Pollution
10-8-6: Refuse
10-8-7: Radioactivity Or Electrical Disturbance
10-8-8: Signs
10-8-9: Home Occupations
10-8-10: Residential Businesses
10-8-11: Shoreland Development Standards
10-8-12: Manufactured Home Parks
10-8-13: Garages, Outbuildings And Other Appurtenances
10-8-14: Fences
10-8-1: APPLICATION:
   A.   Public Welfare Protected: No land or building in any district shall be
used or occupied in any manner creating dangerous, injurious, noxious, or
otherwise objectionable conditions which could adversely affect the surrounding
areas or adjoining premises.
   B.   Compliance With Standards: All land uses, whether permitted or
conditionally permitted will conform with the standards set forth here in this
chapter in addition to conforming with the standards found in the zoning
district sections. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-8-2: FIRE HAZARDS:
Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or explosive materials
shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire-prevention equipment and
by such safety devices as are normally used in the handling of any such
material. Such hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent activities to a
distance which is compatible with the potential danger involved. (Ord. 15, 2nd
Series, 2-26-1992)
10-8-3: SEWAGE FACILITIES:
Where public sewers exist, development shall utilize them. Where sewers are not
constructed or in operation, all sewage facilities shall be connected to
approved septic tanks and disposal fields in conformance with Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency Individual Sewage Treatment Standards. No tiles, sump
pumps, roof gutters or other stormwater collection device shall be connected to
the community sanitary sewage facilities. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-8-4: VIBRATION:
No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible without instruments on any
adjoining lot or property. The standard shall not apply to vibrations created
during the process of construction. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-8-5: AIR POLLUTION:
No pollution of air by fly-ash, dust, vapors, odors, smoke, or other substances
shall be permitted which are harmful to health, animals, vegetation, or other
property, or which can cause excessive soiling. For the purpose of this title,
the regulations and standards adopted by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
shall apply. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-8-6: REFUSE:
All waste material, debris, refuse, or garbage shall be kept in an enclosed
building or properly contained in a closed container designed for such
purposes. The owner of vacant land shall be responsible for keeping such land
free of refuse. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-8-7: RADIOACTIVITY OR ELECTRICAL DISTURBANCE:
No activity shall emit dangerous radioactivity at any point, or electrical
disturbance adversely affecting the operation of any equipment at any point
other than that of the creator of such disturbance. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-
1992)
10-8-8: SIGNS:
The following regulations shall apply to all signs and all use districts:
   A.   Identification, Directional Or Traffic-Control Signs: Only official
identification, directional or traffic-control signs shall be allowed within
the public right-of-way.
   B.   Unacceptable Signs: No sign shall be permitted on rocks, trees, or on
any public utility pole.
   C.   Advertising Signs: Any advertising sign which is not kept in a
reasonable state of repair shall be removed by the City after notice to the
owner of the sign and like notice to the property owner and hearing thereon.
   D.   Prohibited Lighting: No sign shall be permitted which gives off an
intermittent or rotating beam of light.
   E.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs must be removed when the occasion,
real estate sale or election is complete. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-8-9: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
All the following shall apply in order to qualify as a home occupation:
   A.   Allowable Space: Maximum floor use of five hundred (500) square feet.
   B.   Employees: No more than one person outside of household employed.
   C.   Traffic Generated: No more than four (4) vehicle trips per day of extra
traffic.
   D.   Nuisance Avoided: No noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or
electrical interference detectable off premises.
   E.   Identification: No signs other than house number and name of resident
as commonly found on mailboxes.
   F.   Zoning Compliance: No other outside appearances other than what is
normally allowed in the zone. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-8-10: RESIDENTIAL BUSINESSES:
All of the following shall apply in order to qualify as a residential business:
   A.   Floor Area: Maximum floor area of one thousand five hundred (1,500)
square feet.
   B.   Employees: No more than three (3) persons outside of home employed.
   C.   Traffic Generated: No more than twenty (20) vehicle trips per day of
extra traffic.
   D.   Identification: No signs other than one identification sign no greater
than sixteen (16) square feet in size.
   E.   Considerations Addressed: In reviewing the conditional use permit, the
City shall also consider any noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, sight,
electrical interference that would adversely affect permitted uses in the
vicinity. If an adverse effect is determined to result from the proposed use,
then the proposal shall be denied or the adverse effect should be eliminated or
mitigated. This may include special conditions attached to the use permit
including, but not limited to: hours of operation, parking standards, extra
setbacks for buffer, screening and fencing. (Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-8-11: SHORELAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following standards shall apply in the Shoreland Zone:
   A.   Individual Septic Systems And Water Supply:
      1.   All septic systems not in conformity with this title and MPCA Rule
chapter 7080 shall be brought into conformity prior to issuance of any permit
or variance related to the site.
      2.   All septic systems not in conformity with this title and MPCA Rule
chapter 7080 shall be upgraded within one year of the passage of this title to
conform to the provision hereof and MPCA Rule chapter 7080.
      3.   Any public or private supply of water for domestic purposes must
meet or exceed standards for water quality of the Minnesota Department of
Health and the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
      4.   Private wells must be located, constructed, maintained, and sealed
in accordance with or in a more thorough manner than the Water Well
Construction Code of the Minnesota Department of Health.
   B.   Water-Oriented Accessory Structures: Each lot may have one water-
oriented accessory structure not meeting the normal structure setback in this
title if this water-oriented accessory structure complies with the following
provisions:
      1.   The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet (10') in height,
exclusive of safety rails, and cannot occupy an area greater than two hundred
fifty (250) square feet. Detached decks must not exceed eight feet (8') above
grade at any point;
      2.   The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary high
water level must be at least ten feet (10');
      3.   The structure or facility must be treated to reduce visibility as
viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions;
      4.   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but must not be
enclosed or used as a storage area;
      5.   The structure or facility must not be designed or used for human
habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage treatment facilities;
and
      6.   As an alternative for general development and recreational
development waterbodies, water-oriented accessory structures used solely for
watercraft storage, and including storage of related boating and water-oriented
sporting equipment, may occupy an area up to four hundred (400) square feet
provided the maximum width of the structure is twenty feet (20') as measured
parallel to the configuration of the shoreline.
   C.   Stairways, Lifts, And Landings; Design Requirements: Stairways and
lifts are the preferred alternative to major topographic alterations for
achieving access up and down bluffs and steep slopes to shore areas. Stairways
and lifts must meet the following design requirements:
      1.   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet (4') in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open space recreational properties, and planned unit developments;
      2.   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not exceed
thirty two (32) square feet in area. Landings larger than thirty two (32)
square feet may be used for commercial properties, public open space
recreational properties, and planned unit developments;
      3.   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts, or landings;
      4.   Stairways, lifts, and landings may be either constructed above the
ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground, provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion;
      5.   Stairways, lifts, and landings must be located in the most visually
inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the public water,
assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical; and
      6.   Facilities such as ramps, lifts, or mobility paths for physically
handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore areas;
provided, that the dimensional and performance standards of subsections C1 to
C5 of this section are complied with in addition to the requirements of
Minnesota Regulations, chapter 1340.
   D.   Significant Historic Sites: No structure may be placed on a significant
historic site in a manner that affects the values of the site unless adequate
information about the site has been removed and documented in a public
repository.
   E.   Steep Slopes: The City must evaluate possible erosion impacts and
development visibility from public waters before issuing a permit for
construction of sewage treatment systems, roads, driveways, structures, or
other improvements on steep slopes. When determined necessary, condition must
be attached to issued permits to prevent erosion and to preserve existing
vegetation screening of structures, vehicles, and other facilities as viewed
from the surface of public waters, assuming summer, leaf-on vegetation.
   F.   Vegetation Alterations:
      1.   Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of structures
and sewage treatment systems and the construction of roads and parking areas
regulated by this title are exempt from the vegetation alteration standards
that follow.
      2.   Removal or alteration of vegetation, except for agricultural and
forest management uses as regulated in this title is allowed subject to the
following standards:
         a.   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and bluff impact
zones and on steep slopes is not allowed. Intensive vegetation clearing for
forest land conversion to another use outside of these areas is allowable if an
erosion control and sedimentation plan is developed and approved by the Soil
and Water Conservation District in which the property is located.
         b.   In shore and bluff impact zones and on steep slopes, limited
clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning, and trimming of trees is
allowed to provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling site and to
accommodate the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access
paths, livestock watering areas, beach and watercraft access areas, and
permitted water-oriented accessory structures or facilities; provided, that:
            (1)   The screening of structures, vehicles, or other facilities as
viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions are not
substantially reduced;
            (2)   Along rivers, existing shading of water surface is preserved;
and
            (3)   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal of
trees, limbs, or branches that are dead, diseased, or pose safety hazards.
         c.   Use of fertilizer and pesticides in the Shoreland Management
District must be done in such a way as to minimize runoff into the shore impact
zone or public water by the use of earth, vegetation, or both.
   G.   Topographic Alterations/Grading And Filling:
      1.   Construction Permits: Grading and filling and excavations necessary
for the construction of structures, sewage treatment systems, and driveways
under validly issued construction permits for these facilities do not require
the issuance of a separate permit. Grading and filling standards in this
section must be incorporated into the issuance of permits for construction of
structures, sewage treatment systems, and driveways.
      2.   Requirements: Notwithstanding subsection G1 of this section, a
grading and filling permit will be required for:
         a.   The movement of more than ten (10) cubic yards of material on
steep slopes or within shore or bluff impact zones; and
         b.   The movement of more than fifty (50) cubic yards of material
outside of steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones.
      3.   Considerations And Conditions: The following considerations and
conditions must be adhered to during the issuance of construction permits,
grading and filling permits, conditional use permits, variances and subdivision
approvals:
         a.   Grading or filling in any Type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 wetland must
be evaluated to determine how extensively the proposed activity would affect
the following functional qualities of the wetland:
            (1)   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
            (2)   Storage of surface runoff to prevent or reduce flood damage;
            (3)   Fish and wildlife habitat;
            (4)   Recreational use;
            (5)   Shoreland or bank stabilization; and
            (6)   Noteworthiness, including special qualities such as historic
significance, critical habitat for endangered plants and animals, or others.
         b.   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that
ensures only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest
time possible;
         c.   Mulches or similar material must be used, where necessary, for
temporary bare soil coverage, and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible;
         d.   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before
they reach any surface water feature must be used;
         e.   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the local Soil
and Water Conservation Districts of the United States Soil Conservation
Service;
         f.   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope;
         g.   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes must be
reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and must not
create finished slopes of thirty percent (30%) or greater;
         h.   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff impact
zones;
         i.   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public
waters must first be authorized by the Commissioner under Minnesota Statutes
section 103G.245;
         j.   Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they are
permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent or nearby
properties; and
         k.   Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated grading of
the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the finished
slope does not exceed three feet (3') horizontal to one foot (1') vertical, the
landward extent of the riprap is within ten feet (10') of the ordinary high
water level, and the height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level
does not exceed three feet (3').
      4.   Connections To Public Waters: Excavations where the intended purpose
is connection to a public water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons, and
harbors, must be controlled by local shoreland controls. Permission for
excavations may be given only after the Commissioner has approved the proposed
connection to public waters.
   H.   Placement And Design Of Roads, Driveways, And Parking Areas:
      1.   Public and private roads and parking areas must be designed to take
advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve maximum screening
from view from public waters. Documentation must be provided by a qualified
individual that all roads and parking areas are designed and constructed to
minimize and control erosion to public waters consistent with the field office
technical guides of the local Soil and Water Conservation District, or other
applicable technical materials.
      2.   Roads, driveways, and parking areas must meet structure setback and
must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones, when other reasonable
and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist, they may
be placed within these areas, and must be designed to minimize adverse impacts.
      3.   Public and private watercraft access ramps, approach roads, and
access-related parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones, provided
the vegetative screening and erosion control conditions of this subsection are
met. For private facilities, the grading and filling provisions of this title
must be met.
   I.   Stormwater Management: The following general and specific standards
shall apply:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   When possible, existing natural drainageways, wetlands, and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter, and retain
stormwater runoff before discharge to public waters.
         b.   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential,
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and
protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to retain sediment
on the site.
         c.   When development density, topographic features, and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle stormwater runoff
using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed facilities
such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes, waterways, and
ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using surface drainage,
vegetation, and infiltration rather than buried pipes and manmade materials and
facilities.
      2.   Specific Standards:
         a.   Impervious surface coverage of lots must not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the lot area.
         b.   When constructed facilities are used for stormwater management,
documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that they are designed
and installed consistent with the field office technical guide of the local
Soil and Water Conservation Districts.
         c.   New constructed stormwater outfalls to public waters must provide
for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface debris
before discharge.
   J.   Agricultural Use Standards: General cultivation farming, grazing,
nurseries, horticulture, truck farming, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting
are permitted uses if steep slopes and shore bluff impact zones are maintained
in permanent vegetation or operated under an approved conservation plan
(Resource Management Systems) consistent with the field office technical guides
of the local Soil and Water Conservation Districts or the United States Soil
Conservation Service, as provided by a qualified individual or agency. The
shore impact zone for parcels with permitted agricultural land uses is equal to
a line parallel to and fifty feet (50') from the ordinary high water level.
   K.   Conditional Uses: Conditional uses allowable within shoreland areas
shall be subject to the review and approval procedures, and criteria and
conditions for review of conditional uses established community-wide. The
following additional evaluation criteria and conditions apply with shoreland
areas:
      1.   Evaluation Criteria: A thorough evaluation of the waterbody and the
topographic, vegetation, and soils conditions on the site must be made to
ensure:
         a.   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of
public waters, both during and after construction;
         b.   The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed from
public waters is limited;
         c.   The site is adequate for water supply and on-site sewage
treatment; and
         d.   The types, uses, and numbers of watercraft that the project will
generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate these watercraft.
      2.   Conditions Attached To Conditional Use Permits: The City, upon
consideration of the criteria listed above and the purposes of this title shall
attach such conditions to the issuance of the conditional use permits as it
deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this title. Such conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Increased setbacks from the ordinary high water level;
         b.   Limitations on the natural vegetation to be removed or the
requirements that additional vegetation be planted; and
         c.   Special provisions for the location design, and use of
structures, sewage treatment systems, watercraft launching and docking areas,
and vehicle parking areas.
   L.   Subdivision/Platting Provisions:
      1.   Land Suitability: Each lot created through subdivision, authorized
under this title, must be suitable in its natural state for the proposed use
with minimal alteration. Suitability analysis by the local unit of government
shall consider susceptibility to flooding, existence of wetlands, soil and rock
formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential,
steep topography, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment capabilities,
near-shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-based recreation, important
fish and wildlife habitat, presence of significant historic sites, or any other
feature of the natural land likely to be harmful to the health, safety, or
welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision or of the community.
      2.   Consistency With Other Controls: Subdivisions must conform to all
official controls of this community. A subdivision will not be approved where a
later variance from one or more standards in official controls would be needed
to use the lots for their intended purpose. In areas not served by publicly-
owned sewer and water systems, a subdivision will not be approved unless
domestic water supply is available and a sewage treatment system consistent
with this title and MPCA chapter 7080 can be provided for every lot. Each lot
shall meet the minimum lot size and dimensional requirements, including at
least a minimum contiguous lawn area, that is free of limiting factors
sufficient for the construction of two (2) standard soil treatment systems,
where public sewer is unavailable. Lots that would require use of holding tanks
must not be approved.
      3.   Information Requirements: Subdivision applications will include the
following information:
         a.   Topographic contours at ten foot (10') intervals or less from
United States Geological Survey maps or more accurate sources, showing limiting
site characteristics;
         b.   The surface water features required in Minnesota Statutes section
505.02, subdivision 1, to be shown on plats, obtained from United States
Geological Survey quadrangle topographic maps or more accurate sources;
         c.   Adequate soils information to determine suitability for building
and on site sewage treatment capabilities for every lot from the most current
existing sources or from field investigations such as soil borings, percolation
tests, or other methods;
         d.   Information regarding adequacy of domestic water supply; extent
of anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations; near shore aquatic
conditions, including depths, types of bottom sediments, and aquatic
vegetation; and proposed methods for controlling stormwater runoff and erosion,
both during and after construction activities; and
         e.   Location of 100-year floodplain areas from existing maps or data.
(Ord. 15, 2nd Series, 2-26-1992)
10-8-12: MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
All manufactured home parks shall be in conformance with Minnesota State
Statutes and Minnesota Department of Health Regulations. Additionally the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Lots Combined: Substandard lot (or pad) sizes shall be combined if
necessary to accommodate newer manufactured homes.
   B.   Location: Manufactured home parks shall be located such that the
traffic can be directly handled by a State/County highway or a City arterial
street.
   C.   Structure Setback: There shall be a one hundred foot (100') structure
setback from property lines adjacent to residential zoned areas.
   D.   Separation Requirements: Required minimum separation requirements
between the homes and all added structures except uncovered decks no higher
than one foot (1') from the ground grade:
      Side separation - Twenty feet (20').
      End separation - Ten feet (10').
   E.   Minimum Site Size: Five (5) acre minimum site size. (Ord. 15, 2nd
Series, 2-26-1992)
10-8-13: GARAGES, OUTBUILDINGS AND OTHER APPURTENANCES:
   A.   Side Wall: In a residential and multiple dwelling zone or in any zone
with a lot with a residential dwelling, garages constructed or altered after
the effective date of this title may have a side wall of not more than ten feet
eight inches (10'8") in height. The ten foot eight inch (10'8") side wall is
measured from the floor of the garage to the top plate. (Ord. 32, 2nd Series,
12-5-1995)
   B.   Size Limitation: A garage may be eight hundred forty (840) square feet
in size or ten percent (10%) of the lot size up to one thousand eight (1,008)
square feet. No more than one structure not attached to a house will be allowed
in the event an eight hundred forty (840) to one thousand eight (1,008) square
foot garage is constructed or located on a lot. The total square footage of
outbuildings on a lot will be limited to eight hundred forty (840) square feet
or ten percent (10%) of the lot size up to one thousand eight (1,008) square
feet. (Ord. 70, 2nd Series, 11-6-2001)
   C.   Satellite Dishes And Solar Panels: Satellite dishes and solar panels
must comply with building setback requirements. Satellite dishes must be behind
main structures on lots. (Ord. 32, 2nd Series, 12-5-1995)
   D.   Residential Setbacks: Residential setbacks apply in a commercial zone
when there is a residential neighbor. This applies to commercial and
residential structures. (Ord. 11, 2nd Series, 5-7-1991)
10-8-14: FENCES:
   A.   The following definitions shall apply to this section:
   FENCE: Any barrier constructed of rails, timbers, wires, boards, stone
walls, hedge, metal or any combination of those materials or any materials
which the fence viewers decide are equivalent to these materials.
   HEDGE: A dense row of shrubs forming a boundary.
   SPLIT RAIL FENCE: A fence consisting of vertical posts not greater than
thirty six inches (36") in height connected by not more than two (2) horizontal
rails that are not greater than six inches (6") in width with the top of
horizontal rails being no higher than thirty inches (30").
   B.   All fences shall be constructed or erected in a complete and
substantial manner and of materials reasonably suited to the purpose for which
the fence is proposed. A fence shall be maintained in a condition of reasonable
repair and shall not be constructed or maintained in a manner that is dangerous
to the public health, safety, or welfare. All fences whether constructed,
erected, or replaced shall comply with this section. No barbwire or electric
fences or similar special purpose fences shall be allowed without a conditional
use permit from the City.
   C.   All front yard fences are prohibited, except on corner lots, which
constitute two (2) front yards. On a corner lot one of the front yards shall be
considered a side yard as determined by the City. On the side yard as
determined, a fence may be constructed with a twenty five foot (25') setback
(same as for building setback). Decorative corners on corner lots such as split
rail or plantings are allowed as long as they are less than twenty feet (20')
in both directions, do not exceed thirty inches (30") in height and do not
constitute a traffic hazard and visibility hazard as determined by the Chief of
Police. No fence shall constitute a traffic hazard.
   D.   All fences which are constructed, replaced, or erected will require a
building permit. A building permit shall be prepared and submitted to the City
on such form as the City may prescribe accompanied by any fee which the City
may establish by resolution.
   E.   No fences shall be constructed or erected higher than six feet (6')
except where residential adjoins commercial or industrial property where an
eight foot (8') fence may be constructed or erected.
   F.   All fences shall be constructed, erected, or maintained at least two
feet (2') off all alley right-of-ways. No fence shall be constructed, erected,
or maintained on utility easements.
   G.   Side yard fences shall be constructed, erected, and maintained at least
twelve inches (12") from the adjoining property. The finished side of all
fences shall face the adjoining property or right-of-way. A survey may be
required by the City before placing a fence within twelve inches (12") of the
adjoining property or right-of-way. Survey costs are the responsibility of
applicant. No survey will be required if the fence is to be located on or
within twelve inches (12") of the adjoining property or right-of- way and the
owners of the adjoining property or right-of-way have entered into a written
agreement approving the proposed location of the fence. Such written agreement
must be recorded in the Office of the County Recorder, Brown County, Minnesota.
   H.   All fences shall conform to the City on adopted Building Code.
   I.   All fences which are presently in violation of these regulations will
be allowed to continue unless more than twenty percent (20%) of the fence is
repaired, replaced or reconstructed. Current fences that are determined by the
Chief of Police to be considered a potential threat to public health or safety
shall be removed or changed to comply with this section after the property
owner has been given the right to be heard by the City Council. (Ord. 79, 2nd
Series, 5-10-2005)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LOT DIVISION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Lot Division
11-1-1: LOT DIVISION:
   A.   No plat, replat, subdivision or division of an existing parcel of land
within the City shall be filed or accepted for filing by the Brown County
Recorder unless it is accompanied by a certified copy of a resolution adopted
by the Council approving such plat, re-plat, subdivision or division.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall apply to all lands currently
within the City, or such additional areas as the City may assert or acquire
jurisdiction over in the future. (1988 Code § 2.73)
APPENDIX A
ANNEXATIONS
Ordinance Number Date Of Adoption Brief Description
Ordinance Date Of  Brief Description
Number    Adoption
22        7-5-1905 Remmele's 2nd Addition.
38        11-8-    Romberg's Addition.
          1906
134       11-7-    Meyer's Addition.
          1952
136       4-10-    Lot 2 of Lot N of SW 1/4, 32-110-32.
          1953
141       11-3-    Broich's 1st Addition.
          1953
148       5-3-1955 Stimpert's 2nd Addition.
213       10-6-    Part of SW 1/4, 32-110-32.
          1971
223       10-3-    Lot 4 of E ½ of SE 1/4, 31-110-32.
          1972
242       3-1-1977 Lot 1 of Lot N of SW 1/4, 32-110-32.
246       10-4-    Lots 5 and 6 of E ½ of SE 1/4, 31-110-32.
          1977
251       7-5-1978 Parcel abutting Lot 7, Block 1, Friton's 1st Addition.
252       7-5-1978 Lot D-1 of NW 1/4 of NE 1/4, Lots M and N of Lot J of NE-W, 29-110-32.
257       6-5-1979 Parcel abutting Lot 1 of NE 1/4 of SE 1/4, 31-110-32.
261       7-1-1980 Tract in SE 1/4, 31-110-32.
283       4-4-1985 Parcel abutting Block 1, Nursing Home Addition.
284       5-7-1985 Lots B-3-A and B-3-B of NW 1/4 of NE 1/4, 32-110-32.
285       5-24-    Part of Lot M-4 of M-2 and Lot M-6 of M-1 of SW 1/4 of SE 1/4, 29-110-32.
          1985
xxx       xxx      (Amended by Ord. 289, 11-5-1985; Ord. 293, 4-1-1986)
286       6-4-1985 Tract in Lot N of SW 1/4, 32-110-32.
290       11-5-    Lot 7 of E ½ of SE 1/4, 31-110-32.
          1985
305       9-1-1987 Tract in N ½ of SE 1/4, 31-110-32.
14, 2nd   10-11-   Southerly 530 feet of the westerly 340 feet excepting therefrom the southerly
Series    1991     40 feet of the SE 1/4 of the SE 1/4, Section 29, Township 110N, Range 32 West.
17, 2nd   12-1-    That part of the West half of the Southeast quarter of Section 29, Township
Series    1992     110 North, Range 32 West.
35, 2nd            Lot 1, Block 1, Haala's First Addition in the SW 1/4, Section 32, Township
Series    8-6-1996 110, Range 32, Brown County, Minnesota, along with Third Avenue SW and First
                   Avenue S, adjoining said Lot 1.
38, 2nd   5-6-1997 Lot 1, Block 1, Advertising Unlimited First Addition, N ½ of SE 1/4, Section
Series             31, Township 110N, Range 32 West, Brown County, Minnesota.
                   Commencing at the Southeast Corner of Lot 1 Block 5, Friton's Third Addition
                   to the City of Sleepy Eye, Brown County, Minnesota; thence North 89 degrees 50
                   minutes 22 seconds West, an assumed bearing, along the south line of Friton's
                   Third Addition, Friton's Second Addition and Stimpert's Addition a distance of
                   1,134.16 feet to the east line of First Avenue South; thence South 00 degrees
40, 2nd   11-4-    05 minutes 25 seconds West along said east line of First Avenue South a
Series    1997     distance of 637.57 feet; thence South 89 degrees 50 minutes 23 seconds East to
                   the east line of said balance of Lot N; thence Northerly along said east line
                   of the balance of Lot N to the north line of said balance of Lot N; thence
                   Westerly along said north line to the east line of said Friton's Third
                   Addition; thence Southerly along said east line of Friton's Third Addition to
                   the point of beginning, containing 41.7 acres more or less and being subject
                   to easements of record in said county and state.
49, 2nd            Lots A, H, I, N, J, K and L, all in the SE 1/4, Sec. 29, Twp. 110N, Range 32
Series    8-4-1998 West, and Lot M-6, EXCEPTING the East 434.3 ft. thereof of the SE 1/4, Sec.
                   29, Twp. 110N, Range 32 West, Brown County, Minnesota.
71, 2nd   5-14-    North 232 feet of Lot F of NW1/4 of NE1/4, Section 32, Twp. 110, Range 32,
Series    2002     Brown County, Minnesota.
3-2003    2-11-    Lot A of Government Lot 4 in Section 30, Township 110N, Range 32W, Brown
          2003     County, Minnesota.
          3-11-    The East 80 ft. of SE1/4 of SW1/4, Sec. 30, Twp. 110, Rge. 32, Brown County,
4-2003    2003     MN., and the East 80 ft. of that part of Gov't Lot 4 being southerly of Lot A
                   of Gov't Lot 4, Sec. 30, Twp. 110, Rge. 32, Brown County, MN.
7-2003    9-9-2003 Lot M-5 (also known as Lot M-5 of M-1) SE1/4, Sec. 29, Twp. 110, Range 32,
                   Brown County, Minnesota.
76, 2nd   1-11-    Lot 2 of Lot F of the NW 1/4 and Lot E of the NW 1/4, Section 31, Twp. 110N,
Series    2005     Range 32W, Brown County, Minnesota.
78, 2nd   5-10-    Lot 2, Block 1, Berkner's Fourth Subdivision in the NW1/4 of Section 31,
Series    2005     Township 110N, Range 32W, Brown County, Minnesota; and
                   that part of the balance of Lot F of the Northwest Quarter of Section 31,
                 Township 110 North, Range 32 West, Brown County, Minnesota, as described in
                   the ordinance.
103, 2nd  7-13-    Part of Lot N of the SW1/4 of Section 32, Twp. 110N, Range 32W, Brown County,
Series    2010     Minnesota, as described in the ordinance.
104, 2nd  7-13-    Lot I, Lot J, Lot K-2, and part of the balance of Lot K, of the Northeast
Series    2010     Quarter of Section 32, Township 110 North, Range 32 West, according to the
                   recorded plat thereof, Brown County, Minnesota, as described in the ordinance.
109, 2nd  9-13-    The North 180 feet of Lot G of the NW1/4 of the NE1/4, Section 32, Twp. 110,
Series    2011     Range 32, Brown County, Minnesota.
130, 2nd  -        Description on file in the City.
Series
                   Lot H in the Southwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter, Lot F in the
                   Southwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter, and Lot E of the Southeast Quarter
                   of the Northeast Quarter of Section 29, Township 110 North, Range 32 West,
157, 2nd  8-28-    Brown County, Minnesota; AND
Series    2019     North 33.00 feet of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter and the
                   North 33.00 feet of the West 470.25 feet of the Northeast Quarter of the
                   Southeast Quarter of Section 29, Township 110 North, Range 32 West, City of
                   Sleepy Eye, Brown County, Minnesota.
158, 2nd  8-28-    As legally described in the Exhibit “A” attached to the ordinance codified
Series    2019     herein.
162, 2nd  10-21-   Amending Ordinance 157, 2nd Series, to exclude a previously annexed portion of
Series    2019     the property.
164, 2nd  12-10-   Amending Ordinance 157, 2nd Series, in order to clarify a portion of the legal
Series    2019     description and complete the annexation process as intended.
 
APPENDIX B
CHARTER AMENDMENTS
 
Ordinance Number Date Of Adoption Charter Section
207              10-7-1970        Section 2.10
208              10-7-1970        Sections 2.03, 2.07 and 2.08.
229              8-6-1974         Section 11.06a.
48, 2nd Series   7-7-1998         Total charter.
 
APPENDIX C
FRANCHISES
Ordinance Number Date Of Adoption Brief Description
Ordinance Number Date Of Adoption Brief Description
                                  Railroad franchise to Chicago and North
39               4-5-1907         Western Railway Co.
                                  (Amended by Ord. 50, 11-1-1921; Ord. 71, 7-1-
                                  1930)
                                  Grants community antenna television franchise
                                  to Sleepy Eye CATV, Inc.
221              8-1-1972         (Amended by Ord. 258, 11-6-1979; Ord. 260, 1-
                                  2-1980; Ord. 263, 11-6-1980; Ord. 276, 12-6-
                                  1983; Ord. 301, 12-18-1986)
253              9-5-1978         Grants gas franchise to Minnesota Gas Co.
                                  (Amended by Ord. 50, 2nd Series, 10-6-1998)
                                  Granting a cable TV franchise to DD cable
19, 2nd Series   9-7-1993         holdings.
                                  (Amended by Ord. 59, 2nd Series, 12-7-1999)
89, 2nd Series   3-13-2007        Grants gas franchise to CenterPoint Energy.
95, 2nd Series   2-10-2009        Extends cable TV franchise with Mediacom
                                  through December 4, 2016.
150, 2nd Series  10-8-2019        Granting to Centerpoint Energy Resources
                                  Corp. a nonexclusive gas franchise.
168, 2nd Series  4-14-2020        Amending Ordinance 69 to reflect the name
                                  change of a grantee of a cable franchise.
 
APPENDIX D
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
 
Ordinance Number Date Of Adoption Brief Description
307              3-1-1988         Storm sewer.
 
APPENDIX E
PROPERTY SALES
Ordinance Number Date Of Adoption Brief Description
Ordinance Date Of  Brief Description
Number    Adoption
160       5-2-1961 S. 10 ft. of Lot E of Outlot 9, Allison's Addn of Outlots in Gov't Lot 3,
                   29-110-32.
161       7-6-1961 Lot B-1 of SW 1/4 of SE 1/4, 30-110-32.
162       8-1-1961 Lot 2-B-1 of Gov't lot 5 and Lot 1-C of Gov't Lot 1, 8-109-32.
178       11-2-    Lot A of Outlot 27 of Gov't Lot 6, 30-110-32 (with restriction).
          1965
216       3-7-1972 Lot 6 of SW 1/4 of NE 1/4, 31-110-32.
223       10-3-    E. 74.02 ft. of Lot B-4 of SW-1/4 of SE 1/4, 30-110-32.
          1972
244       6-9-1977 Lot A of SE 1/4 of NE 1/4, Section 19 and Lots B and " of SW 1/4 of NW 1/
                   4, Section 20, 109-32.
268       9-1-1981 Parcel abutting Lot A of Outlot 27 of Gov't Lot 6, 30-110-32.
275       11-1-    Lot 12 and W. 2 ft. of Lot 11, Block 1, Brackenridge's 1st Addn.
          1983
279       5-1-1983 Lot 17, Block 25, Original Plat.
288       11-5-    Lot 1 and E. 6 ft. of Lot 2, Block 37, Original Plat.
          1983
292       3-17-    Lot 2, Block 1, Subd. of Block 1, Nursing Home Addn.
          1986
302       2-3-1987 Real estate described in lease to Advertising Unlimited, Inc. (industrial
                   develop. rev. bonds of 1972).
2, 2nd    8-2-1988 Lot 2, Block 1, Americana Addition.
Series
12, 2nd   5-7-1991 Lot B-4, excepting therefrom the East 74.02 feet of the SW 1/4 of SE 1/4,
Series             Section 30, Township 110 Range 32.
39, 2nd            The South 30 feet of the West 140 feet of Locust Street, Outlot 1, City of
Series    7-1-1997 Sleepy Eye, reserving to the City of Sleepy Eye an easement over the North
                   20 feet of said description.
                   Parcel 1. S ½ of Lot A of Lots 4, 5 and 6 of Outlot 24, Allison's Second
                   Addition of Outlots, in Gov't Lot 6, Sec. 30, Twp. 110, Range 32, City of
57, 2nd   8-3-1999 Sleepy Eye, Brown County, MN.
Series             Parcel 2. N ½ of Lot A of Lots 4, 5 and 6 of Outlot 24, Allison's Second
                   Addition of Outlots, in Gov't Lot 6, Sec. 30, Twp. 110, Range 32, City of
                   Sleepy Eye, Brown County, MN.
67, 2nd   5-1-2001 Lots 6, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and the vacated portion of alley; all in
Series             block 12, original plat, city of Sleepy Eye.
                   That portion of the balance of Lot M-4 of Lot M-2 of the SW1/4 of the SE1/
                   4 of Section 29, Twp. 110N, Range 32W which lies southerly of a line
72, 2nd            commencing at the NE Corner of Lot M-5 of M-1 of the SW1/4 of the SE1/4,
Series    7-9-2002 Section 29, Twp. 110N, Range 32W, and thence heading easterly to the NW
                   Corner of Seven Gables Addition, City of Sleepy Eye, and there terminating
                   and excepting therefrom the right-of-way of Trunk Highway #14 as now
                   located and established.
75, 2nd   9-28-    West 66 feet of Lot J of the SE1/4, Section 29, Township 110, Range 32,
Series    2004     Brown County, Minnesota.
81, 2nd   2-14-    Lots 9, 10, 11, and 12, Block 2, Nelson's Second Addition, City of Sleepy
Series    2006     Eye.
99, 2nd   6-9-2009 Lot 3, West half of Lot 2, Block 3, Nelson's First Addition, City of
Series             Sleepy Eye, Brown County, Minnesota.
102, 2nd  7-2-2010 Lot 12, Block 10, Brackenridge's First Addition, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown
Series             County, Minnesota.
106, 2nd  6-14-    Lots 6 and 7, Block 23, Original Plat, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown County,
Series    2011     Minnesota.
                   Commencing at the Southwest Corner of Lot F of the NW1/4 of the NE1/4,
                   Section 32, Twp. 110, Range 32, as the point of beginning; thence East on
                   the South line of said Lot F and continuing across the South line of Lot G
108, 2nd  7-7-2011 of the NE1/4 of Section 32, Twp. 110, Range 32, 286.5 feet to the West
Series             line of Schreiner's First Addition; thence South along the West line of
                   Schreiner's First Addition 65 feet; thence West 286.5 feet and parallel to
                   the above described Lot F and Lot G; thence North 65 feet to the point of
                   beginning, Brown County, Minnesota.
                   Lot I, Lot J, Lot K-2, and part of the balance of Lot K, of the Northeast
114, 2nd  5-13-    Quarter of Section 32, Township 110 North, Range 32 West, according to the
Series    2013     recorded plat thereof, Brown County, Minnesota, as described in the
                   ordinance.
116A, 2nd 12-9-    Lots 5, 6, and 7, Block 1, Nelson's Second Addition, the City of Sleepy
Series    2013     Eye, Brown County, Minnesota.
124, 2nd  11-10-   Lot 1 and East 6 feet of Lot 2, Block 37, Original Plat, City of Sleepy
Series    2014     Eye, Brown County, Minnesota.
129, 2nd  3-31-    Description on file in the City.
Series    2016
149, 2nd  4-9-2019 Lots 7, 9, and 10, Block 1, Nelson's Second Addition, City of Sleepy Eye,
Series             Brown County, Minnesota.
152, 2nd           Lots 7-B and 7-C of Outlot 7 of Allison's Outlots, Government Lot 6,
Series    6-9-2019 Section 30, Twp. 110, Range 32, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown County,
                   Minnesota.
154       6-24-    70 acres legally described in the Exhibit "A" attached to the ordinance
          2019     codified herein, located in Brown County, Minnesota.
156, 2nd  7-9-2019 Lot 1, Block 2, Snow First Addition, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown County,
Series             Minnesota.
160, 2nd  9-10-    As legally described in Exhibit “A” attached to the ordinance codified
Series    2019     herein.
169       12-8-    Lot 1, Block 1, Sleepy Hollow Sixth Addition, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown
          2020     County, Minnesota (hereinafter “Property).
170, 2nd  8-11-    Lot 2, Block 4, of Sleepy Hollow Fifth Addition, Section 29, Twp. 110
Series    2020     North, Range 32 West, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown County, Minnesota.
171       9-8-2020 Lots 3, 4, and 5, Block 4, Sleepy Hollow Fifth Addition, Section 29, Twp.
                   110 North, Range 32 West, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown County, Minnesota.
172       9-8-2020 Lot 1, Block 4 in Sleepy Hollow Fifth Addition, Section 29, Twp. 110
                   North, Range 32 West, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown County, Minnesota.
173       12-8-    Lot 3, Block 2, Snow First Addition, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown County,
          2020     Minnesota.
176       2-9-2021 Lot 14, Block 1, Snow First Addition, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown County,
                   Minnesota.
178       2-9-2021 Lots 3, 4, and 5, Block 4, Sleepy Hollow Fifth Addition, Section 29, Twp.
                   110 North, Range 32 West, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown County, Minnesota.
180       3-9-2021 Lot 7, Block 4, of Sleepy Hollow Fifth Addition, Section 29, Twp. 110
                   North, Range 32 West, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown County, Minnesota.
                   70 feet x 335 feet in the balance of Outlot 27 of Government Lot 6,
181       - -2021  Allison's 2nd Addition of Outlots, Section 30, Twp. 110, Range 32), City
                   of Sleepy Eye, Brown County, Minnesota.
182       4-13-    Lot 10, Block 1, Snow First Addition, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown County,
          2021     Minnesota.
185       6-8-2021 Lot 6, Block 4, of Sleepy Hollow Fifth Addition, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown
                   County, Minnesota.
186       6-8-2021 Lot 8, Block 4, of Sleepy Hollow Fifth Addition, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown
                   County, Minnesota.
187       6-8-2021 Lot 3, Block 1, of Snow First Addition, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown County,
                   Minnesota.
189       - -2021  Lot 8, Block 1, Snow First Addition, City of Sleepy Eye, Brown County,
                   Minnesota.
 
APPENDIX F
VACATIONS
Ordinance Number Date Of Adoption Brief Description
Ordinance Number Date Of Adoption Brief Description
157              1961             Part of Oak Street (Sale to George J.
                                  Woolrik).
                                  Parts of Third Street and Second Street
163              8-1-1961         between Burnside and Brackenridge Streets,
                                  and alleys in Blocks 23, 24 and 25,
                                  Brackenridge's 4th Addition.
182              1966             Part of Oak Street, Outlot No. 2 (Sale to
                                  Lampert Lumber Co.).
186              5-27-1967        Part of Oak Street, Outlot No. 3 (Sale to
                                  Sleepy Eye Grain and Feed Co.).
197              10-1-1968        Part of Fifth Avenue S.E.
200              5-6-1969         Part of Oak Street, Outlot No. 4.
215              12-7-1971        Part of 5th Avenue S.E.
228              8-6-1974         Part of Carroll Street and 5th Avenue N.E.
233              7-1-1975         Part of Burnside Street S.W.
241              11-2-1976        Part of 4th Avenue N.E.
247              10-17-1977       Part of 5th Avenue N.E. (Sale to Pietrus
                                  Foods).
254              2-6-1978         Part of Oak Street.
256              4-5-1979         Part of 5th Avenue N.E. north of Carroll
                                  Street.
265              3-3-1981         Part of Oak Street (Sale to Sleepy Eye
                                  Telephone Co.).
266              4-9-1981         Alley in Block 2, Parkview Addition, W. 40
                                  feet of alley in Block 2, Haala and
                                Lambrecht's Addition and reservation of
                                  utility easement.
278              4-3-1984         Alley in Block 27, Original Plat.
280              7-3-1984         Alley in Outlot 26, Gov't Lot 6, Allison's
                                  2nd Addition.
281              3-5-1985         Part of 2nd Avenue S.W.
296              9-2-1986         North and south alley, Block 1, Brackenridge
                                  1st Addition.
29, 2nd Series   8-1-1995         Part of Third Avenue Northeast.
44, 2nd Series   5-5-1998         Portion of Tenth Avenue Northeast.
64, 2nd Series   10-31-2000       Easement abutting on Prescott Street NW.
66, 2nd Series   5-1-2001         Portion of the east-west alley in block 12,
                                  original plat, city of Sleepy Eye.
                                  Portion of the alley located in block 5,
68, 2nd Series   10-2-2001        Brackenridge's third addition, city of Sleepy
                                  Eye.
1-2004           1-13-2004        Portion of Birch Street NE and two utility
                                  easements adjacent thereto.
 
APPENDIX G
ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Ordinance Number Date Of Adoption Brief Description
Ordinance Number Date Of Adoption Brief Description
24, 2nd Series   9-12-1994        Rezone from general industrial to business/
                                  industrial.
33, 2nd Series   5-7-1996         Rezone from business/industrial to
                                  residential.
53, 2nd Series   3-2-1999         Rezone from general industrial to general
                                  residential.
56, 2nd Series   7-6-1999         Rezone from multi-family residential to
                                  general residential.
61, 2nd Series   2-1-2000         Rezone from residential to business/
                                  industrial.
63, 2nd Series   5-2-2000         Rezone from general industrial to business/
                                  industrial.
73, 2nd Series   9-17-2002        Rezone from residential to business/
                                  industrial.
87, 2nd Series   12-12-2006       Rezone from residential to business/
                                  industrial.
91, 2nd Series   8-14-2007        Rezone from residential to general
                                  industrial.
92, 2nd Series   2-12-2008        Rezone from business/industrial to
                                  residential.
110, 2nd Series  2-14-2012        Rezone from residential to general
                                  industrial.
112, 2nd Series  1-24-2013        Rezone from multi-family to business/
                                  industrial.
115, 2nd Series  6-11-2013        Rezone from business/industrial to
                                  residential.
119, 2nd Series  3-11-2014        Rezone from residential to business/
                                  industrial.
126, 2nd Series  8-20-2015        Rezone from residential to downtown
                                  commercial.
179              3-9-2021         Rezone from residential to business
                                  industrial.
 
APPENDIX H
MISCELLANEOUS SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Ordinance Number Date Of Adoption Brief Description
Ordinance Number Date Of Adoption Brief Description
158              1961             Bench marks and monuments established.
159              1961             Utility services.
174              7-7-1964         Ordinance codification.
185              3-7-1967         Street names.
43, 2nd Series   4-7-1998         Dedicating certain lands for street purposes.
                                  Purchase Lot 7, Block 1; Lot 10, Block 2; and
2-2003           2-11-2003        Lots 9 and 10, Block 1; all in Nelson's
                                  Second Addition, City of Sleepy Eye from
                                  Brown County, Minnesota.
                                  Exchange small parcels of real estate in
85, 2nd Series   9-11-2006        right-of-way of Third Avenue North, City of
                                  Sleepy Eye.
90, 2nd Series   5-8-2007         Establishing Haala's Sixth Addition, City of
                                  Sleepy Eye.
94, 2nd Series   8-12-2008        Transferring easement on property located
                                  north of 612 Third Avenue NW.
111, 2nd Series  12-11-2012       Establishing Kiefer's Tenth Addition, City of
                                  Sleepy Eye.
113, 2nd Series  2-12-2013        Establishing Snow First Subdivision, City of
                                  Sleepy Eye.
116, 2nd Series  9-10-2013        Establishing Snow Second Addition, City of
                                  Sleepy Eye.
120A, 2nd Series 7-8-2014         Establishing Kiefer's Eleventh Addition, City
                                  of Sleepy Eye.
125, 2nd Series  3-25-2015        Establishing Snow Third Addition, City of
                                  Sleepy Eye.
127, 2nd Series  4-8-2016         Establishing Sleepy Hollow Fifth Addition,
                                  City of Sleepy Eye.
128, 2nd Series  3-31-2016        Exchange real estate.
132, 2nd Series  9-27-2016        Establishing Janni First Addition, City of
                                  Sleepy Eye.
                                  Adopting the Fifth Addition, City of Sleepy
155              6-24-2019        Eye, as an official plat within the City of
                                  Sleepy Eye.
159, 2nd Series  8-28-2019        Summary publication of Ordinance 147, passed
                                  7-9-2019.
                                  Adopting the Sixth Addition, City of Sleepy
174, 2nd Series  1-12-2021        Eye, as an official plat within the City of
                                  Sleepy Eye.
                                  Adopting the Twice Addition, City of Sleepy
177              3-9-2021         Eye, as an official plat within the City of
                                  Sleepy Eye.
193              10-12-2021       Correcting property lines in conveyance from
                                  Wayne and Patricia Pelzel.
 
